[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. An investment in securities issued by TCF, including an investment in TCF's common and preferred stock, involves certain risks that should be considered carefully. The most significant risks that management believes affect TCF are described below. Any of the risks described below may have a material impact on TCF's financial condition, results of operations or reputation. To the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is forward-looking, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause TCF's actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.. TCF's financial results are significantly affected by general economic and political conditions.. TCF's operations and profitability are impacted by both business and economic conditions generally, as well as those in the local markets in which TCF operates. Economic conditions have a significant impact on the demand for TCF's products and services, as well as the ability of its customers to repay loans and leases, the value of the collateral securing loans and leases, the ability of TCF to sell loans, the stability of its deposit funding sources and sales revenue at the end of contractual lease terms. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in securities markets, changes in housing market prices or other factors could impact economic conditions and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, adverse economic conditions may result in a decline in demand for equipment that TCF leases or finances, which could result in a decline in the amount of new equipment being placed in service, as well as declines in the values of collateral already in service. Adverse economic conditions may also hinder TCF from expanding the inventory finance business by limiting its ability to attract and retain manufacturers and dealers as expected. Any such difficulties in TCF's leasing and equipment and inventory finance businesses could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. TCF's financial results are subject to interest rate risk.. TCF's earnings and cash flows largely depend upon its net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond TCF's control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest TCF receives on loans, leases and other investments and the amount of interest TCF pays on deposits and other borrowings, but such changes could also affect: (i) TCF's ability to originate loans and leases and attract or retain deposits; (ii) the fair value of TCF's financial assets and liabilities and (iii) the average duration of TCF's interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans, leases and other investments, then TCF's net interest income and earnings could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans, leases and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. An inability to obtain needed liquidity could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. TCF's liquidity could be limited by an inability to access the capital markets or unforeseen outflows of cash, which could arise due to circumstances outside of its control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects TCF or third parties. TCF's credit rating is important to its liquidity. A reduction or anticipated reduction in TCF's credit ratings could adversely affect the ability of TCF Bank and its subsidiaries to lend and adversely affect its liquidity and competitive position, increase its borrowing costs, limit its access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. An inability to meet its funding needs on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. 8. Table of Contents. TCF Financial relies on dividends from TCF Bank for most of its liquidity.. TCF Financial is a separate and distinct legal entity from TCF Bank. TCF Financial's liquidity comes principally from dividends from TCF Bank. These dividends, which are limited by various federal and state regulations, are the principal source of funds TCF Financial uses to pay dividends on its preferred and common stock and to meet its other cash needs. In the event TCF Bank is unable to pay dividends to TCF Financial, it may not be able to pay dividends or other obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. Competition for growth in deposits and evolving payment system developments could increase TCF's funding costs.. TCF relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding. TCF competes with banks and other financial institutions for deposits and it is expected that competition for deposits will continue to increase. If TCF's competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, TCF may experience either a loss of deposits or an increase in rates paid by TCF to avoid losing deposits. Industry developments involving payment system changes could also impose additional costs. Losses of deposits may require TCF to address its liquidity needs in ways that increase its funding costs. Increased funding costs could reduce TCF's net interest margin and net interest income, which could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect TCF's financial results.. TCF's ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. TCF routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even speculation regarding the soundness of, any financial institution, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to losses by, or other adverse consequences to, TCF or a counterparty. Many of these transactions expose TCF to credit risk in the event of default of the counterparty or client. In addition, TCF's credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by TCF cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial exposure. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. TCF relies on its systems and counterparties, including reliance on other companies for the provision of key components of its business infrastructure, and any failures could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. TCF, through systems and counterparties, settles funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receives funds from payment networks, consumers and other paying agents. TCF's businesses depend on their ability to process, record and monitor a large number of complex transactions and process large amounts of information, including employee and financial information. Any disruptions to these systems may result in significant costs and other adverse developments. Although we have plans, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the negative effect of these disruptions, there can be no assurance that these will be successful. Our failure to effectively mitigate or promptly remediate any disruptions could result in an inability to perform necessary business functions, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business or confidence, subject us to regulatory scrutiny or expose us to litigation or other financial liability, any of which could materially affect us, including our results of operations.. Third party vendors provide key components of TCF's business infrastructure, such as internet connections, network access and transaction and other processing services. While TCF has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problems experienced or caused by these third parties, including inadequate or interrupted service, could adversely affect TCF's ability to process, record or monitor transactions, or to deliver products and services to its customers and to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. TCF also may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control, which may include, for example, computer viruses, electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, terrorist acts or other damage to property or physical assets. Such disruptions may give rise to loss of services to customers and loss or liability to TCF. Any system failure could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations. If any of TCF's financial, accounting or other data processing systems fail or if personal information of TCF's customers or clients were mishandled or misused (whether by employees or counterparties), TCF could suffer regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial losses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. 9. Table of Contents. TCF faces cyber-security and other external risks, including \"denial of service,\" \"hacking,\" \"ransomware\" and \"identity theft,\" that could adversely affect TCF's reputation and could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. TCF's computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks and could be susceptible to cyber-attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking, terrorist activities or identity theft. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause serious financial and reputational harm. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and TCF may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. While TCF does not believe it has experienced a material cyber-security breach, TCF experiences periodic threats to its data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, attempted unauthorized access of accounts and attempts to disrupt its systems. TCF may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks, could be held liable for and could suffer reputational damage as a result of any security breach or loss.. In addition, there have been increasingly sophisticated and large-scale efforts on the part of third parties to breach data security with respect to financial transactions, including by intercepting account information at locations where customers make purchases or withdraw money, as well as through the use of social engineering schemes such as \"phishing.\" For example, many retailers have reported data breaches resulting in the loss of customer information and many financial institutions have experienced losses as account information has been stolen through the use of skimmers placed on ATMs and point of sale terminals. In the event that third parties are able to misappropriate financial information of TCF's customers, even if such breaches take place due to weaknesses in other parties' security protections, TCF could suffer reputational damage or financial losses which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. The success of TCF's supermarket branches depends on the continued long-term success and viability of TCF's supermarket partners, TCF's ability to maintain licenses or lease agreements for its supermarket locations and customer preferences.. A significant financial decline or change in ownership involving one of TCF's supermarket partners, including Jewel-Osco or SUPERVALU Inc., could result in the loss of supermarket branches or could increase costs to operate the supermarket branches. At December 31, 2017, TCF had 128 supermarket branches. Supermarket banking continues to play an important role in TCF's deposit account strategy. TCF is subject to the risk, among others, that its license or lease for a location or locations will terminate upon the sale or closure of that location or locations by the supermarket partner or that we may not be able to renew branch leases with our supermarket partners on favorable terms, or at all.. Also, difficult economic conditions, financial or labor difficulties in the supermarket industry, or a decrease in customer utilization of traditional bank branches may reduce activity in TCF's supermarket branches. Although utilization of these branches may decrease, the nature of these leases with our supermarket partners generally do not allow us to terminate significant numbers of individual branches. Because these leases are generally all renewed together, in the event of a decrease in customer utilization there may be limited opportunities to terminate unprofitable branch leases. Any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject TCF to additional risk.. From time to time, TCF may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and new products or services, TCF may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of TCF's system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and new products or services could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. Increased competition in the already highly competitive financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. The financial services industry is highly competitive and could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, as well as continued industry consolidation, which may increase in connection with current economic and market conditions. TCF competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally only provided by banks, such as providing loans through peer-to-peer lending. Some of TCF's competitors have fewer regulatory constraints or lower cost structures. Also, the potential need to adapt to industry changes in information technology systems, on which TCF and the financial services industry generally highly depend, could present operational issues and require considerable capital spending. Further, decreased underwriting standards of competitors may result in lower interest rates on loans originated by TCF or lower loan volumes originated by TCF. As a result, any increased competition in the already highly competitive financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. The allowance for loan and lease losses maintained by TCF may not be sufficient to cover actual losses experienced by TCF and losses in excess of TCF's allowance could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. TCF maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense, which represents management's best estimate of probable credit losses incurred within the existing portfolio of loans and leases. The level of the allowance for loan and lease losses reflects management's continuing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan and lease loss experience, current loan and lease portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses in the current loan and lease portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks using qualitative and quantitative factors, each of which is subject to significant change. Changes in economic conditions affecting customers, new information regarding existing loans and leases, identification of additional problem loans and leases, lower than expected recoveries in the case of default and other factors may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, federal banking regulators periodically review TCF's allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of additional loan and lease charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses would result in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. TCF is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, and changes in applicable laws and regulations, or their enforcement, could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial results.. TCF Financial, its subsidiary TCF Bank and certain indirect subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect bank customers, depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. These regulations affect TCF's revenues, lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulators continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Many new banking rules are issued with limited interpretive guidance.. 11. Table of Contents. Future changes in regulations, regulatory policies, interpretation and enforcement of statutes, regulations or policies could result in reduced revenues, increased compliance burdens, additional costs, limits on the types of financial services and products we may offer or increased competition from non-banks offering competing financial services and products, among other things. Future legislative and regulatory initiatives cannot be fully or accurately predicted. Such proposals may impose more stringent standards than currently applicable or anticipated with respect to capital and liquidity requirements for depository institutions. For example, the CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over TCF Bank and its subsidiaries, and broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of the federal consumer financial laws with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers. The CFPB is authorized to make rules identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. Uncertainties remain concerning how the term \"abusive\" will be enforced. In recent years there has been an increase in the frequency of enforcement actions brought by federal banking regulators, such as the CFPB, dealing with matters such as indirect auto lending, fair lending, account fees, loan servicing and other products and services provided to customers.. For example, on January 19, 2017, the CFPB filed a civil lawsuit against TCF Bank in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota (the \"Court\"), captioned Consumer Financial Protection Bureau v. TCF National Bank, alleging violations of the Consumer Financial Protection Act (\"CFPA\") and Regulation E §1005.17, in connection with TCF Bank's practices administering checking account overdraft program \"opt-in\" requirements from 2010 to early 2014. In its complaint, the CFPB seeks, among other relief, redress for consumers, injunctive relief and unspecified penalties. On September 8, 2017, the Court issued a ruling on the motion made by TCF Bank to dismiss the complaint of the CFPB. In its ruling, the Court granted TCF Bank's motion to dismiss the CFPB's Regulation E claims and also dismissed the CFPB's unfair, deceptive and abusive conduct claims under the CFPA for periods prior to July 21, 2011. The Court did not grant TCF Bank's motion to dismiss CFPA claims for periods on or after July 21, 2011. TCF Bank rejects the claims made by the CFPB in its complaint and intends to continue to vigorously defend against the CFPB's allegations. However, the ultimate resolution of this lawsuit and any other proceeding, action or matter arising from the same or similar facts or practices is uncertain, and this lawsuit and any other such proceedings, actions or matters may result in costs, losses, fines, penalties, restitution, injunctive relief, changes to our business practices and regulatory scrutiny, enforcement or restrictions which, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, cash flows, financial position, ability to offer certain products and business and prospects generally.. While TCF has policies and procedures designed to prevent violations of laws, regulations and regulatory policies, and to ensure compliance with new or changed laws, regulations and regulatory policies, there can be no assurance that violations will not occur and failure to comply could result in reputational damage, remediation, disgorgement, penalties, other monetary relief, injunctive relief or changes to TCF's business practices or operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. TCF's earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies, as well as other legal changes affecting businesses and consumers.. The policies of the Federal Reserve impact TCF significantly. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and leases and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits, and also affect the value of financial instruments that TCF holds. Those policies determine, to a significant extent, the cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in those policies are beyond TCF's control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve policies can also affect TCF's borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or leases. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve could increase unemployment or reduce the demand for a borrower's products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower's earnings and ability to repay its loan or lease. As a result, changes to the fiscal and monetary policies by the Federal Reserve could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, legal changes affecting consumers and businesses, including the deductibility or other tax attributes associated with certain products, may significantly decrease the demand for certain products that we offer. For example, Tax Reform limits the tax deductibility of interest paid on home equity loans to those loans used to purchase or substantially improve qualified residences, which may decrease consumer demand for such loan products.. 12. Table of Contents. TCF's framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and any resulting loss.. TCF's risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and any resulting loss. TCF has established processes intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which TCF is subject, including legal and compliance, operational, reputational, strategic and market risk such as interest rate, credit, liquidity and foreign currency risk. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to TCF's risk management strategies. There may exist, or develop in the future, risks that TCF has not appropriately anticipated or identified. Any future breakdowns in TCF's risk management framework could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. Damage to TCF's reputation could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial results.. Reputational risk, or the risk to earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in TCF's business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect TCF's ability to keep and attract employees and customers and expose it to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from TCF's actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to such conduct, and could be exacerbated by negative publicity. Because TCF conducts most of its businesses under the \"TCF\" brand, negative public opinion about one business could affect all of TCF's businesses.. Failure to keep pace with technological change could adversely affect TCF's business.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. TCF's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of TCF's competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. TCF may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is subject to certain risks related to originating and selling loans that could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. TCF relies on the sale of loans to generate earnings and manage its liquidity and capital levels, as well as geographical and product diversity in its loan portfolio. Disruptions in the financial markets, decrease in demand for loans which we sell, changes to laws or regulations that reduce the attractiveness of such loans to purchasers of the loans or a decrease in the willingness of purchasers to purchase loans from TCF, or in general, could require TCF to decrease its lending activities or retain a greater portion of the loans it originates. Selling fewer loans would result in a decrease in the gains recognized on the sale of loans, would decrease TCF's capital ratios as a result of the increase of risk weighted assets, could result in decreased liquidity and could result in increased credit risk as TCF's loan portfolio increased in size, any of which could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. The structure of certain loan sales may result in the retention of credit risk. TCF may receive interest-only strips in connection with certain of its loan sales. The interest-only strip is recorded at fair value, which represents the present value of future cash flows expected to be received by TCF. The value of these interest-only strips may be affected by factors such as changes in the behavior patterns of customers (including defaults and prepayments), changes in the strength of the economy and developments in the interest rate markets; therefore, actual performance may differ from TCF's expectations. The impact of such factors could have a material adverse effect on the value of these interest-only strips and on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. When loans are sold or securitized, it is customary to make representations, warranties and covenants to the purchaser or investors about the loans, including the manner in which they were originated and will be serviced. These agreements generally require the repurchase of loans or indemnification in the event TCF breaches these representations, warranties or covenants and such breaches are not cured. In addition, some agreements contain a requirement to repurchase loans as a result of early payoffs by the borrower, early payment default of the borrower or the failure to obtain valid title. TCF has not made significant repurchases of sold loans. A material increase in the amount of loans repurchased could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. Financial institutions depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, TCF may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. TCF may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could cause TCF to enter into unfavorable transactions which could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. The failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. TCF's success depends to a large extent upon its key personnel, including its ability to attract and retain such personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on TCF's business because of their skills, market knowledge, industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. Additionally, portions of TCF's business are relationship driven and many of TCF's key personnel have extensive customer relationships. Loss of key personnel to a competitor could result in the loss of some of TCF's customers. As a result, a failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. Acquisitions may disrupt TCF's business and dilute stockholder value.. TCF regularly evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with banks or other financial institutions. As a result, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves various risks, such as: difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute TCF's tangible book value and earnings per share in the short- and long-term; potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; volatility in reported income as goodwill impairment losses could occur irregularly and in varying amounts; difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence or other projected benefits; potential disruption to TCF's business; potential diversion of TCF management's time and attention; potential loss of key employees and customers of TCF or the target company; and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company, any of which could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.. Technology and other changes are allowing consumers to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have previously been held as traditional bank deposits in brokerage accounts, online bank accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills, transferring funds and obtaining loans directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the loss of lower-cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. Changes in accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how TCF reports its financial condition and results of operations.. TCF's accounting policies are fundamental to the understanding of its financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of TCF's assets or liabilities and results of operations. Some of TCF's accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because materially different amounts would be reported if different estimates or assumptions were used. If such estimates or assumptions underlying the financial statements are incorrect, TCF could experience material losses. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of TCF's financial statements. These changes are beyond TCF's control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how TCF reports its financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, TCF could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, resulting in it restating prior period financial statements in material amounts.. TCF is subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities that could adversely affect TCF's results of operations and financial condition.. TCF is subject to federal, state and foreign income tax regulations, which often require interpretation due to their complexity. Changes in income tax regulations, including those resulting from the enactment of Tax Reform, or in how the regulations are interpreted could have a material adverse effect on TCF's results of operations. In the normal course of business, TCF is routinely subject to examinations and challenges from taxing authorities regarding its tax positions. Taxing authorities have been aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. These challenges may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions, or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in TCF's favor, they could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. Significant legal actions could subject TCF to substantial uninsured liabilities.. TCF can be subject to claims and legal actions related to its operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory or enforcement actions by TCF's regulators and other government authorities or private litigation, could result in large monetary awards or penalties, as well as significant defense costs. While TCF maintains insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that it believes are appropriate for its operations, such insurance does not cover all types of liability, including regulatory fines or penalties, and may not continue to be available to TCF at a reasonable cost, or at all. As a result, TCF may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, customers may make claims and take legal action pertaining to TCF's deposit products and sale or servicing of its loan and lease products. Whether or not such claims and legal action have merit, they may result in significant financial liability and could adversely affect the market perception of TCF and its products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. In particular, the financial services industry has increasingly been targeted by lawsuits alleging infringement of patent rights, often from patent holding companies seeking to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or other intellectual property rights, or the merits of any claims by potential or actual litigants, the Company may have to engage in protracted and costly litigation which may be time consuming and disruptive to TCF's operations and management. If the Company is found to infringe on one or more patents or other intellectual property rights, it may be required to pay substantial damages or royalties to a third-party, or it may be subject to a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from utilizing certain technologies.. 15. Table of Contents. TCF's internal controls may be ineffective.. Management regularly reviews and updates TCF's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of TCF's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. TCF is subject to environmental liability and risks related to natural disasters that are associated with lending activities.. A significant portion of TCF's loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, TCF may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, TCF may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require TCF to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit TCF's ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase TCF's exposure to environmental liability. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on TCF's financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, severe weather, earthquakes, other natural disasters, pandemics, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our lending business. Such events could impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Because our lending businesses are geographically diverse, those businesses are likely to be impacted more often by natural disasters, including hurricanes, flooding, fires and earthquakes, which have caused extensive damage in various parts of the United States in which they conduct business. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations."
