[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties which may affect our business, our operating results and our share price, among other things. Any of the following risks or uncertainties could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results, among other things.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations. Because we depend on our ability to generate revenues from the sale of advertising campaigns, fluctuations in advertising spending could have an adverse effect on our operating results.. The primary source of our revenues is the sale of advertising campaigns to our customers. Our advertising revenues accounted for substantially all of our total revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017. We believe that advertising spending on the internet, as in traditional media, fluctuates significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include:. •  variations in expenditures by advertisers due to budgetary constraints;. •  the cancellation or delay of projects by advertisers;. •  the cyclical and discretionary nature of advertising spending;. •  general economic conditions, as well as economic conditions specific to the internet and online and offline media industry; and. •  the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as natural disasters and international or domestic political and economic unrest.. Because most of our customers are in the IT industry, our revenues are subject to characteristics of the IT industry that can affect advertising spending by IT vendors.. Because most of our clients are in the IT industry, the success of our business is closely linked to the health, and subject to market conditions, of the IT industry. The IT industry is characterized by, among other things, volatile quarterly results, uneven sales patterns, short product life cycles, rapid technological developments and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our customers' advertising budgets, which are often viewed as discretionary expenditures, may increase or decrease significantly over a short period of time. Many of our customers have reassessed and will, for the foreseeable future, be likely to continue to scrutinize their spending on advertising campaigns. Prior market downturns in the IT industry have resulted in declines in advertising spending, which can cause longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchases by IT vendors and generally reduced expenditures for advertising and related services. Our revenues and profitability depend on the overall demand for advertising services from our customers. We believe that demand for our offerings has been in the past, and could be in the future, disproportionately affected by fluctuations, disruptions, instability or downturns in the IT industry, which may cause customers and potential customers to exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce any planned expenditures for our marketing and advertising service offerings. Any slowdown in the formation of new IT companies, or decline in the growth of existing IT companies, may cause a decline in demand for our offerings.. 16. In addition, the advertising budgets of our customers may fluctuate as a result of:. •  weakness in corporate IT spending, resulting in a decline in IT marketing and advertising spending, a continued trend that we have seen and that may continue;. •  increased concentration in the IT industry as a result of consolidations, leading to a decrease in the number of current and prospective customers, as well as an overall reduction in marketing and advertising spend;. •  reduced spending by combined entities following such consolidations; and. •  the timing of marketing and advertising campaigns around new product introductions and initiatives.. Our future growth will depend in large part on continued increased sales of our IT Deal Alert product and service suite.. We sell a suite of products and services called IT Deal Alert, which is based on our Activity Intelligence analytics. The IT Deal Alert suite currently consists primarily of Priority Engine, TechTarget Research, Qualified Sales Opportunities and Deal Data. Our increase in revenues in the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, was driven in part by an increase in sales of IT Deal Alert products. We expect that IT Deal Alert, as well as the expansion of the features in our IT Deal Alert product offerings, will be major components of our future growth. The failure of our IT Deal Alert products to meet anticipated sales levels, our inability to continue to expand successfully our IT Deal Alert suite, or the failure of our current or new IT Deal Alert products and services to achieve and then maintain widespread customer acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, competitors may develop a service or application that is similar to our IT Deal Alert suite, which could also result in reduced sales for those product offerings.. Our revenues are primarily derived from short-term contracts that may not be renewed.. The primary source of our revenues is the sale of marketing and advertising services to our customers, and we expect that this will continue to be the case for the foreseeable future. Our contracts are primarily short-term, typically six months or less, and are generally subject to termination without substantial penalty by the customer at any time, generally with minimal notice requirements. We cannot assure you that our current customers will fulfill their obligations under their existing contracts, continue to participate in our existing programs beyond the terms of their existing contracts or enter into any additional contracts for new programs that we offer. In addition, our efforts to enter into longer-term arrangements with customers for our IT Deal Alert products and services may not be successful. If a significant number of customers or a few large customers decided not to continue purchasing marketing and advertising services on our websites, we could experience a rapid decline in our revenues over a relatively short period of time.. If we are unable to deliver content and services that attract and retain a critical mass of members, our ability to attract customers may be affected, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our revenues.. Our success depends on our continued ability to deliver original and compelling content and services to attract and retain members, as well as our ability to garner a critical mass of members of our websites. Our member base is comprised of corporate IT and business professionals who demand specialized websites tailored to the sectors of the IT products for which they are responsible and that they purchase. Our content and services may not continue to attract and retain a critical mass of members necessary to attract customers and generate revenues consistent with our historical results and expectations of future results. We also may not develop new content or services in a timely or cost-effective manner. Our ability to develop and produce this specialized content successfully is subject to numerous uncertainties, including our ability to:. •  anticipate and respond successfully to rapidly changing IT developments and preferences to ensure that our content remains timely and interesting to our members;. •  attract and retain qualified editors, writers and technical personnel;. •  fund new development for our programs and other offerings;. •  successfully expand our content offerings into new platform and delivery mechanisms; and. •  promote and strengthen the brands of our websites and our name.. If we are not successful in maintaining and growing our member base through the deployment of targeted and compelling content, our ability to retain and attract customers may be affected, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our revenues.. 17. We depend upon internet search engines to attract a significant portion of the members who visit our websites, and if we were listed less prominently in search result listings as a result of changes in the search engines' algorithms or otherwise, our business and operating results would be harmed.. We derive a significant portion of our website traffic from users who search for IT research and editorial content through internet search engines, such as Google, MSN, Bing and Yahoo!. A critical factor in attracting members to our websites is whether we are prominently displayed in response to an internet search relating to IT content. Search result listings are determined and displayed in accordance with a set of formulas or algorithms developed by the particular internet search engine. The algorithms determine the order of the listing of results in response to the user's internet search. From time to time, search engines revise their algorithms. In some instances, these modifications may cause our websites to be listed less prominently in unpaid search results, which will result in decreased traffic from search engine users to our websites. Our websites may also become listed less prominently in unpaid search results for other reasons, such as search engine technical difficulties, search engine technical changes and changes we make to our websites. In addition, search engines have deemed the practices of some companies to be inconsistent with search engine guidelines and have decided not to list their websites in search result listings at all. Although we could mitigate certain algorithm changes affecting our traffic with increased marketing expenditures, if we are listed less prominently or not at all, in search result listings, traffic to our websites could decline, which could impact our operating results. Increased marketing spend to increase site traffic could also impact our results of operations.. There are a number of risks associated with our international operations, as well as the expansion of those operations, that could adversely affect our business.. Approximately 28% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 were derived from customers with billing addresses outside of the U.S. Approximately 32% of our online revenues were derived from international geo-targeted campaigns, which are campaigns that are targeted at members who reside outside of North America. We have offices in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Singapore and Australia. We also publish websites in Spanish, French, German, Portuguese and Chinese, targeting members worldwide who speak those languages.. In addition to many of the same challenges we face domestically, there are additional risks and costs to doing business in international markets, including:. •  limitations on our activities in foreign countries where we have granted rights to existing business partners;. •  the degree to which our foreign-based customers transition from print to online marketing and advertising;. •  the adaptation of our websites and marketing and advertising programs to meet local needs;. •  our foreign-based competitors having greater resources and more established relationships with local advertisers;. •  more restrictive data protection regulation, which may vary by country and for which there may be little or no guidance;. •  more restrictive website licensing and hosting requirements, which may result in our websites being blocked, may require changes to how we operate our websites, or may involve regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business;. •  more extensive labor regulation, which may vary by country;. •  difficulties in staffing and managing multinational operations;. •  difficulties in finding appropriate foreign licensees or joint venture partners;. •  difficulties following changes in local business operations or structure;. •  distance, language and cultural differences in doing business with foreign entities;. •  foreign (and domestic) political and economic uncertainty;. •  less extensive adoption of the internet as an information source and increased restriction on the content of websites;. •  currency exchange-rate fluctuations; and. •  potential adverse tax requirements.. 18. The United Kingdom's vote to withdraw from the EU in accordance with the national referendum held on June 23, 2016 (\"Brexit\") could adversely affect us. In particular, our European and Middle East operations are based out of the United Kingdom. We employ approximately 60% of our non-U.S. workforce in the United Kingdom (10% of our overall workforce), and we generate approximately 10% of our revenues from customers with billing addresses in the United Kingdom. Additionally, our United Kingdom office provides sales support to other European and Middle East regions, including our French and German operations, and there could be a material adverse impact on our ability to continue providing this support depending on the terms of the United Kingdom's withdrawal. In March 2017, the United Kingdom's government initiated the exit process under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, commencing a period of up to two years for the United Kingdom and other EU member states to negotiate the terms of the withdrawal. The proposed withdrawal could, among other potential outcomes, adversely affect the tax, tax treaty, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the European marketplace is subject. The withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the United Kingdom and the EU and significantly disrupt trade between the United Kingdom and the EU and other parties. Further, uncertainty around these and related issues, including political uncertainty in other EU member states, could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the United Kingdom and the other economies in which we operate. There can be no assurance that any or all of these events will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations and financial condition.. As a result, we may face difficulties and unforeseen expenses in expanding our business internationally and, if we attempt to do so, we may be unsuccessful, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Competition for customers' marketing and advertising spending is intense, and we may not compete successfully, which could result in a material reduction in our market share, the number of our customers and our revenues.. We compete for potential customers with a number of different types of offerings and companies, including: broad - based media outlets such as television, newspapers and business periodicals that are designed to reach a wide audience; general purpose portals and search engines; and offline and online offerings of media companies that produce content specifically for IT and business professionals, including International Data Group, J2 Global, QuinStreet, Madison Logic and CBS Interactive/CNet. Customers may choose our competitors over us not only because they prefer our competitors' online offerings to ours but also because customers prefer to utilize other forms of marketing and advertising services offered by our competitors that are not offered by us and/or to diversify their marketing and advertising expenditures. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. They may also offer different pricing than we do, which could be more attractive to customers. Competitors have historically responded, and may continue to respond, to market conditions by lowering prices to try to attract our customers. As a result, we could lose market share to our competitors in one or more of our businesses and our revenues could decline.. We may not innovate at a successful pace, which could harm our operating results.. Our industry is rapidly adopting new technologies and standards to create and satisfy the demands of users and advertisers. It is critical that we continue to innovate by anticipating and adapting to these changes to ensure that our content - delivery, demand generation and IT Deal Alert products and services remain effective and interesting to our members, customers and partners. In addition, we may need to make significant expenditures to achieve these goals. If we fail to accomplish these goals, we may lose members and the customers that seek to reach those members, which could harm our operating results. Existing and planned efforts to develop new products, including any subscription-based offerings, may be costly and ultimately not successful.. We may be unable to continue to build awareness of our brands, which could negatively impact our business and cause our revenues to decline.. Building and maintaining recognition of our brands is critical to attracting and retaining our member base. We intend to continue to build existing brands and introduce new brands that will resonate with our targeted audiences. In order to promote our brands, we may find it necessary to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel or otherwise increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand loyalty among our clients. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands effectively, or incur excessive expenses attempting to promote and maintain our brands, our business and financial results may suffer.. 19. If we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be adversely affected.. Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management. Our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. These individuals possess sales, marketing, financial and administrative skills that are critical to the operation of our business. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. We may not be able to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel cost-effectively, which could impact the quality of our content and services and the effectiveness and efficiency of our management, resulting in increased costs and losses in revenues.. Our success depends on our ability to attract, hire and retain qualified technical, editorial, sales and marketing, customer support, financial and accounting and other managerial personnel at commercially reasonable rates. The competition for personnel in the industries in which we operate is intense. Our personnel may terminate their employment at any time for any reason. Loss of personnel may also result in increased costs for replacement hiring and training. If we fail to attract and hire new personnel or retain and motivate our current personnel, we may not be able to operate our businesses effectively or efficiently, serve our customers properly or maintain the quality of our content and services. In particular, our success depends in significant part on maintaining and growing an effective sales force. This dependence involves a number of challenges, including:. •  the need to hire, integrate, motivate and retain additional sales and sales support personnel;. •  the need to train new sales personnel, many of whom lack sales experience when they are hired; and. •  competition from other companies in hiring and retaining sales personnel.. We may fail to identify or successfully acquire and integrate businesses, products and technologies that would otherwise enhance our product and service offerings to our customers and members, and as a result our revenues may decline or fail to grow.. We have acquired, and in the future may acquire or invest in, complementary businesses, products or technologies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks including:. •  difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses;. •  potential disruption of our ongoing businesses and distraction of our management and the management of acquired companies;. •  difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our offerings and services, which could result in additional expenses and/or technical difficulties in delivering our product offerings;. •  potential failure to achieve additional sales and enhance our customer base through cross-marketing of the combined company's products and services to new and existing customers;. •  potential detrimental impact to our pricing based on the historical pricing of any acquired business with common clients and the market generally;. •  potential litigation resulting from our business combinations or acquisition activities; and. •  potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses.. Our inability to integrate any acquired business successfully, or the failure to achieve any expected synergies, could result in increased expenses and a reduction in expected revenues or revenue growth. As a result, our revenues, results of operations or stock price could fluctuate or decline. In addition, we may not be able to identify or successfully complete acquisitions, which could impact our ability to expand into complementary sectors in the future.. General domestic and global economic, business or industry conditions and financial market instability may adversely affect our business, as well as our ability to forecast financial results.. The U.S. and international economies have experienced inconsistent, unpredictable growth and a certain degree of instability, magnified at times by factors including changes in the availability of credit, volatile business and consumer confidence and unemployment. These and other macro - economic conditions have contributed to unpredictable changes in the global economy and expectations of future global economic growth. If the economic climate in the U.S. and abroad remains as it is or deteriorates, our customers or potential customers could reduce or delay their purchases of our offerings, which would adversely impact our revenues and our ability to sell our offerings, collect customer receivables and, ultimately, our profitability.. 20. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the economy generally, and in the IT market specifically, it can be difficult for us to accurately estimate future income and expenditures. We cannot predict the duration of current economic conditions or the duration or strength of an economic recovery in the U.S. or worldwide generally or in the IT industry or in any of its segments. Further adverse changes may occur as a result of global, domestic or regional economic conditions, changing consumer confidence, unemployment, declines in stock markets, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. These changes may negatively affect the sales of our offerings, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, or increase the risk of loss on investments. Any recent growth we have experienced internationally would be negatively affected by any future global downturn.. Risks Related to Data Privacy, Security and Intellectual Property Rights. We may have limited protection of our intellectual property rights, which others could infringe.. Our success and ability to compete are dependent in part on the strength of our proprietary rights, on the goodwill associated with our trademarks, trade names and service marks, and on our ability to use U.S. and foreign laws to protect them. Our intellectual property includes, among other things, our original content, our editorial features, logos, brands, domain names, the technology that we use to deliver our services, the various databases of information that we maintain and make available by license, and the appearances of our websites. We claim common law protection on certain names and marks that we have used in connection with our business activities. Although we have applied for and obtained registration of some of our marks in the U.S. and other countries where we do business, we have not been able to obtain registration of all of our key marks in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions due to prior registration or use by third parties employing similar marks. In addition to U.S. and foreign laws and registration processes, we rely on confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties and other protective contractual provisions to safeguard our intellectual property.. Policing our intellectual property rights and identifying infringers worldwide is a difficult task, and even if we are able to identify infringers, we may not be able to stop them from infringing our intellectual property. We cannot be certain that third-party licensees of our content will adequately protect our proprietary rights. Intellectual property laws and our agreements may not be sufficient to prevent others from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our content or technologies. In addition, others may develop non-infringing technologies that are similar or superior to ours. In seeking to protect our marks, copyrights, domain names and other proprietary rights, we could face costly litigation and the diversion of our management's attention and resources.. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is still evolving. Therefore, we might be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Any impairment in the value of these important assets could cause our stock price to decline.. We could be subject to claims from third parties based on the content on our websites created by us and third parties. These claims could result in costly litigation, the payment of damages or the need to revise the way we conduct our business.. We could be subject to infringement claims from third parties, which may or may not have merit. Due to the nature of content published on our online network, including content placed on our online network by third parties, and as a creator and distributor of original content and research, we face potential liability based on a variety of theories, including defamation, libel, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other legal theories based on the nature, creation or distribution of this information. Such claims may also include, among others, claims that by providing hypertext links to websites operated by third parties, we are liable for wrongful actions by those third parties through these websites. Similar claims have been brought, and sometimes successfully asserted, against online services. It is also possible that our members could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on information provided on our networks. In addition, we could be exposed to liability in connection with material posted to our internet sites by third parties. For example, many of our sites offer members an opportunity to post comments and opinions that are not moderated. Some of this member-generated content may infringe on third-party intellectual property rights or privacy rights or may otherwise be subject to challenge under copyright laws. Such claims, whether brought in the U.S. or abroad, could divert management time and attention away from our business and result in significant cost to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of these claims. In addition, if we become subject to these types of claims and are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. These claims could also result in the need to develop alternative trademarks, content or technology or to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against these claims. The filing of these claims may also damage our reputation as a high quality provider of unbiased, timely analysis and result in client cancellations or overall decreased demand for our services. We may not have, in all cases, conducted formal evaluations of our content, technology and services to determine whether they expose us to any liability of the sort described above. As a result, we cannot be certain that our. 21. technology, offerings, services or online content do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property or other rights of third parties. If we were found to have infringed on a third party's intellectual property rights or otherwise found liable for damages as a result of such claims, the value of our brands and our business reputation could be impaired, and our business could suffer.. Changes in laws and standards relating to marketing, data collection and use, and the privacy of internet users could impact our ability to conduct our business and thereby decrease our marketing and advertising service revenues.. We use e-mail as a significant means of communicating with our members. The laws and regulations governing the use of e-mail for marketing purposes continues to evolve, and the growth and development of the market for commerce over the internet may lead to the adoption of additional legislation and/or changes to existing laws. If new laws or regulations are adopted, or existing laws and regulations are interpreted and/or amended or modified to impose additional restrictions on our ability to send e-mail to our members or potential members, we may not be able to communicate with them in a cost-effective manner. In addition to legal restrictions on the use of e-mail, internet service providers and others typically attempt to block the transmission of unsolicited e-mail, commonly known as \"spam.\" If an internet service provider or software program identifies e-mail from us as \"spam,\" we could be placed on a restricted list that would block our e-mail to members or potential members who maintain e-mail accounts with these internet service providers or who use these software programs. If we are unable to communicate by e-mail with our members and potential members as a result of legislation, blockage or otherwise, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.. We collect information from our members who register on our websites or for services, respond to surveys or, in some cases, view our content. Subject to each member's permission (or right to decline, which we refer to as an \"opt-out\", a practice that may differ across our various websites, depending on the applicable needs and requirements of different countries' laws), we may use this information to inform our members of services that they have indicated may be of interest to them. We may also share this information with our customers for members who have elected to receive additional promotional materials and have expressly or implicitly granted us permission to share their information with third parties. We also collect information on our members based on their activity on our sites. The U.S. federal government and certain states have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution and use of personal information of internet users.. Although, to date, our efforts to comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations have not hurt our business, additional, more burdensome laws or regulations, including more restrictive consumer privacy and data security laws, could be enacted or applied to us or our customers. Such laws or regulations could impair our ability to collect member information that helps us to provide more targeted content to our members and detailed lead data to our customers, thereby impairing our ability to maintain and grow our audience and maximize revenue from our customers. Additionally, the FTC and many state attorneys general are applying federal and state consumer protection laws to require that the online collection, use and dissemination of data, and the presentation of website content, comply with certain standards for notice, choice, security and access. Courts may also adopt these developing standards. In many cases, the specific limitations imposed by these standards are subject to interpretation by courts and other governmental authorities. A few states have also introduced legislation that, if enacted, would restrict or prohibit behavioral marketing and advertising within the state. In the absence of a federal law pre-empting their enforcement, such state legislation would likely have the practical effect of regulating behavioral marketing and advertising nationwide because of the difficulties behind implementing state-specific policies or identifying the location of a particular member. In the event of additional legislation in this area, our ability to effectively target our members may be limited. We believe that we are in compliance with applicable consumer protection laws, but a determination by a state or federal agency or court that any of our practices do not meet these laws and regulations could create liability to us, result in adverse publicity and affect negatively our businesses. New interpretations of these standards could also require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations.. In addition, the EU and its member states and Canada have regulations dealing with the collection and use of personal information obtained from their citizens. Regulations in these jurisdictions have focused on the collection, transfer, use, disclosure and security of information that may be used to identify or that actually identifies an individual, such as an e-mail address or a name. Further, within the EU, certain member state data protection authorities regard IP addresses as personal information, and legislation in the EU requires informed consent for the placement of a cookie on a user device. The General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") was approved by the EU Parliament on April 14, 2016 and will become effective on May 25, 2018. The GDPR replaces the Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC and was designed to, among other things, harmonize disparate data privacy laws found across Europe. Its application and scope are extensive and penalties for non-compliance are significant, including fines of up to 20 million Euros or 4% of total worldwide revenue. Additionally, on January 10, 2017, the EU Commission released a Proposal for Regulation on Privacy and Electronic Communications (\"ePrivacy Regulation\") which will replace the ePrivacy Directive and is intended to align with the overall EU data privacy and protection framework, including the GDPR. Compliance with the GDPR and the final ePrivacy Regulation could require us to add new resources or change our current or future services which may adversely affect our revenues.. 22. Law makers and regulators are expected to release additional guidance on the implementation of the GDPR over the months leading up to and following its effective date, which may further impact our compliance efforts. We will continue to monitor potential changes in legal or regulatory requirements of privacy laws.. U.S. companies have, since 2000, relied on the Department of Commerce Safe Harbor Principles (\"Safe Harbor\") and self-certification process in order to transfer and process the personal data of people in the EU in a manner that the EU, until recently, deemed adequate to protect the security of such information. On October, 6, 2015, the European Court of Justice declared that Safe Harbor was no longer valid. U.S. and EU lawmakers in February 2016 announced a replacement for Safe Harbor, called the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework Principles (\"the Privacy Shield\"). On July 12, 2016, the European Commission deemed the Privacy Shield adequate to enable data transfers of personal data from the EU to the U.S. On September 23, 2016, we completed the initial documentation and process requirements and self-certified to the Privacy Shield. We received final confirmation from the FTC regarding certification and compliance with the Privacy Shield requirements on February 10, 2017.. U.S. and European lawmakers and regulators have recently expressed concern over the use of third-party cookies or web beacons for the purpose of online behavioral marketing and advertising, and efforts to address these uses may result in broader requirements that would apply to our research activities, including our efforts to understand our members' internet usage. Such actions may have a chilling effect on businesses like ours that collect or use online usage information generally, or may substantially increase the cost of maintaining a business that collects or uses online usage information, increase regulatory scrutiny and increase the potential of class action lawsuits. In response to marketplace concerns about the usage of third-party cookies and web beacons to track user behaviors, the major browser applications have enabled features that allow the user to limit the collection of certain data. These developments could impair our ability to collect member information that helps us provide more targeted marketing content to our members. In addition, several browser applications, including Microsoft Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and Apple Safari, contain tracking protection features and options that allow users to opt out of ad-tracking cookies and in certain cases block behavioral tracking from specified websites. In the event members implement these tracking protection features and options, they have the potential to affect our business negatively.. We believe that we are in material compliance with all laws and regulations that are applicable to us. As referenced above, these regulations and laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future that may apply to us and affect our business. Further, data protection authorities may interpret existing laws in new ways. We may deploy new products and services from time to time, which may also require us to change our compliance practices. Any such developments (or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws) or the failure to anticipate accurately the application or interpretation of these laws could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and materially affect our business and results of operations.. Increased exposure from loss of personal information due to data breaches and hacks could impose significant additional costs on us.. We currently retain confidential information relating to our members in secure database servers. Although we observe security measures throughout our operations, we may not be able to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized access to these database servers, which could cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect our websites against hackers. Our online networks could also be affected by computer viruses or other similar disruptive problems, and we could inadvertently transmit viruses across our networks to our members or other third parties. Providing unimpeded access to our online networks is critical to servicing our customers and providing superior customer service. Our inability to provide continuous access to our online networks could cause some of our customers to discontinue purchasing marketing and advertising programs and services and/or prevent or deter our members from accessing our networks. We cannot assure that contractual provisions attempting to limit our liability in these areas will be successful or enforceable, or that other parties will accept such contractual provisions as part of our agreements.. In addition, many states and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have enacted regulations requiring us to notify customers and, in some cases, governmental authorities, in the event that certain customer information is accessed, or believed to have been accessed, without authorization. Certain regulations also require proscriptive policies to protect against such unauthorized access. Additionally, increasing regulatory demands are requiring us to provide heightened protection of personal information to prevent identity theft and the disclosure of sensitive information. Should we experience a loss of protected data, efforts to regain compliance and address penalties imposed by such regulatory regimes could increase our costs. Also, data breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability from third parties or others, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. 23. Our business, which is dependent on centrally located communications and computer hardware systems, is vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunication and systems failures, terrorism and other problems, as well as disruption due to maintenance or high volume, all of which could reduce traffic on our networks or websites and result in decreased capacity for marketing and advertising space.. Our operations are dependent on our communications systems and computer hardware, all of which are located in data centers operated by third parties. These systems could be damaged by natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, viruses, hacking and similar events outside of our control. Our insurance policies have limited coverage levels for loss or damages in these events and may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur. In addition, terrorist acts or acts of war may cause harm to our employees or damage our facilities, our clients, our clients' customers and vendors which could adversely impact our revenues, costs and expenses and financial position. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions to our systems or cancellations of events caused by terrorist acts and acts of war.. Our ability to attract and maintain relationships with our members, customers and strategic partners depends on the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our internet infrastructure. Our internet marketing and advertising revenues relate directly to the number of advertisements and other marketing opportunities delivered to our members. System interruptions or delays that result in the unavailability of internet sites or slower response times for members would reduce the number of advertising impressions and leads delivered. This could reduce our revenues as the attractiveness of our sites to members and advertisers decreases. Our insurance policies provide only limited coverage for service interruptions and may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. Further, we do not have multiple site capacity for all of our services in the event of any such occurrence.. In addition, our networks and websites must accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver frequently updated information. They have experienced, and may experience in the future, slower response times due to higher than expected traffic, or decreased traffic, for a variety of reasons. There have been instances where our online networks as a whole, or our websites individually, have been inaccessible. Also, slower response times, which have occurred more frequently, can result from general internet problems, routing and equipment problems involving third-party internet access providers, problems with third-party advertising servers, increased traffic to our servers, viruses and other security breaches that are out of our control. In addition, our members depend on internet service providers and online service providers for access to our online networks or websites. Those providers have experienced outages and delays in the past, and may experience outages or delays in the future. Moreover, our internet infrastructure might not be able to support continued growth of our online networks or websites. Any of these problems could result in less traffic to our networks or websites or harm the perception of our networks or websites as reliable sources of information. Less traffic on our networks and websites or periodic interruptions in service could have the effect of reducing demand for marketing and advertising on our networks or websites, thereby reducing our revenues.. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the internet by us and our members. If government regulations relating to the internet change, internet access providers may be able to block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of customers and clients.. Our products and services depend on the ability of our members to access the internet. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures, including legal actions, that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of member access to our advertisements or our third-party publishers' advertisements by restricting or prohibiting the use of infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our members to provide our offerings. On December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission voted to repeal the net neutrality rules which were intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that traverses their networks. It is unclear whether or if such a repeal will be subject to challenge or preemption if the U.S. Congress passes new laws regarding net neutrality. In addition, as we expand internationally, government regulations concerning the internet, in particular net neutrality, may be nascent or non-existent. This regulatory environment, coupled with the potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, could cause us to experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense, or otherwise negatively affect our business. Such interference could result in a loss of existing customers and clients, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new customers and clients, thereby harming our revenues and growth.. 24. Risks Related to Our Financial Statements and General Corporate Matters. If we do not maintain proper and effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' views of us.. Ensuring that we have adequate disclosure controls and procedures, including internal financial and accounting controls and procedures, in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. On an ongoing basis, both we and our independent auditors document and test our internal controls and procedures in connection with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and, as part of that documentation and testing, identify areas for further attention and improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, take a significant period of time to complete; and distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors' perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may seriously affect our stock price.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited.. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds to expand our sales and marketing and service development efforts or to make acquisitions. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund the expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development efforts or take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. If we incur debt, the debt holders would have rights senior to common stockholders to make claims on our assets and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Any debt financing is likely to have financial and other covenants that could have an adverse impact on our business if we do not achieve our projected results. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest.. The impairment of a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet could result in a decrease in earnings and, as a result, our stock price could decline.. We have acquired assets and businesses over time, some of which have resulted in the recording of a significant amount of goodwill and/or intangible assets on our consolidated financial statements. We had $93.8 million of goodwill and $0.5 million of net intangible assets as of December 31, 2017. The goodwill was recorded because the fair value of the net tangible assets and/or intangible assets acquired was less than the purchase price. We may not realize the full value of the goodwill and/or intangible assets. As such, we evaluate goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances suggest that the asset may be impaired. We did not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives as of December 31, 2017. We evaluate other intangible assets subject to amortization whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. If goodwill or other intangible assets are determined to be impaired, we will write off the unrecoverable portion as a charge to our earnings. If we acquire new assets and businesses in the future, as we intend to do, we may record additional goodwill and/or intangible assets. The possible write-off of the goodwill and/or intangible assets could negatively impact our future earnings and, as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline.. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile and decline substantially.. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, these factors include:. •  our operating performance and the operating performance of similar companies;. •  the overall performance of the equity markets;. 25. •  announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, business plans, commercial relationships or new product or service offerings;. •  threatened or actual litigation;. •  changes in laws or regulations relating to the provision of internet content;. •  any change in our Board of Directors or management;. •  publication of research reports about us, our competitors or our industry, or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts;. •  our sale of common stock or other securities in the future;. •  large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders; and. •  general political and economic conditions.. In addition, the stock market in general, and historically the market for internet-related companies in particular, have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our full year and quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations, and these fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. We have experienced fluctuations in our full year and quarterly revenues and operating results. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors described in this Risk Factors section, many of which are outside of our control. Specifically, our results could be impacted quarter by quarter by changes in the spending priorities and marketing budget cycles of customers; the addition or loss of customers; the addition of new sites and services by us or our competitors; and seasonal fluctuations in marketing spending, based on product launch schedules, annual budget approval processes for our customers and the historical decrease in marketing spending in the summer months. Due to the foregoing as well as other risks described in this Risk Factors section, our results of operations in one or more quarters may fall below the expectations of investors and/or securities analysts. In such an event, the trading price of our common stock is likely to decline.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts.. Various provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or change of control. Our stockholders might view any transaction of this type as being in their best interest since the transaction could result in a higher stock price than the then-current market price for our common stock. Among other things, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws:. •  authorize our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with the terms of each series to be fixed by our Board of Directors, which could be used to institute a \"poison pill\" that would work to dilute the share ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board;. •  divide our Board of Directors into three classes so that only approximately one-third of the total number of directors is elected each year;. •  permit directors to be removed only for cause;. •  prohibit action by written consent of our stockholders; and. •  specify advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, with some exceptions, the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts or delays mergers and other business combinations between us and any stockholder that acquires 15% or more of our voting stock.. 26. Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing stockholders could depress the market price of our common stock.. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. A large portion of our outstanding shares of common stock is held by our officers, directors and significant stockholders. Our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders beneficially own approximately 14.8 million shares of our common stock, which represents 54% of our outstanding shares as of December 31, 2017. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially.. A limited number of stockholders have the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval.. Our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders beneficially own approximately 54% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. These stockholders, if they act together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our stock price. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by other stockholders."
