[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial position and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Before you buy our common stock or other securities, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have been highlighted below are not the only risks of our business. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock or other securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements are as follows:. Our ability to earn profit is more challenging when sales slow from a down economy as a result of gross profit declining faster than cost reduction efforts taking effect.. Adverse economic conditions may result in lower demand for the products and services we sell. When we experience a rapid decline in demand for products we experience more difficulty in achieving the gross profit and operating profit we desire due to the lower sales and increased pricing pressure. The economic environment may also result in changes in vendor terms and conditions, such as rebates, cash discounts and cooperative marketing efforts, which may also result in downward pressure on our gross profit. As a result, there is pressure to reduce the cost of operations in order to maximize operating profits. To the extent we cannot reduce costs to offset such decline in gross profits, our operating profits typically deteriorate. The benefits from cost reductions may also take longer to fully realize and may not fully mitigate the impact of the reduced demand or changes in vendor terms and conditions. Should we experience a decline in operating profits or not achieve the planned level of growth in our acquired company's operations, the valuations we develop for purposes of our goodwill impairment test may be adversely affected, potentially resulting in impairment charges. Deterioration in the financial and credit markets heightens the risk of customer bankruptcies and delays in payment. Future deterioration in the credit markets could result in reduced availability of credit insurance to cover customer accounts. This, in turn, may result in our reducing the credit lines we provide to customers, thereby having a negative impact on our net sales, gross profits and net income.. Our competitors can take more market share by reducing prices on vendor products that contribute the most to our profitability.. The technology distribution industry is characterized by intense competition, based primarily on product availability, credit terms and availability, price, effectiveness of information systems and e-commerce tools, speed of delivery, ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality and depth of product lines and training, service and support. Our customers are not required to purchase any specific volume of products from us and may move business if pricing is reduced by competitors, resulting in lower sales. As a result, we must be extremely flexible in determining when to reduce price to maintain market share and sales volumes and when to allow our sales volumes to decline to maintain the quality of our profitability. We compete with a variety of regional, national and international wholesale distributors, some of which may have greater financial resources than us.. We are dependent on internal information and telecommunications systems, and any failure of these systems, including system security breaches, data protection breaches or other cybersecurity attacks, may negatively impact our business and results of operations.. Cyber-attacks and other tactics designed to gain access to and exploit sensitive information by breaching mission critical systems of large organizations are constantly evolving and have been increasing in sophistication in recent years. High profile security breaches leading to unauthorized release of sensitive information have occurred with increasing frequency at a number of major U.S. companies, despite widespread recognition of the cyber-attack threat and improved data protection methods. While to date, we have not experienced a significant data loss, significant compromise or any material financial losses related to cybersecurity attacks, our systems, those of our customers, and those of our third-party service providers are under constant threat. Cybercrime, including phishing, social engineering, attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service attacks, or similar disruptions from unauthorized access to our systems, could cause us critical data loss or the disclosure or use of personal or other confidential information. Outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees to disclose personally identifiable information or other confidential information which could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, it could harm our relationships with vendors and customers. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. We are dependent on internal information and telecommunications systems, and we are vulnerable to failure of these systems, including through system security breaches, data protection breaches or other cybersecurity attacks. If these events occur, the unauthorized disclosure, loss or unavailability of data and disruption to our business may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, drive existing and potential customers away and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, or potential liability, including possible litigation and punitive damages. Failures of our internal information or telecommunications systems may prevent us from taking customer orders, shipping products and billing customers. Sales may also be impacted if our customers are unable to access our pricing and product availability information.. 10. Table of Contents. We may not be able to ship products if our third party shipping companies cease operations temporarily or permanently.. We rely on arrangements with independent shipping companies for the delivery of our products from vendors and to customers. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, may have an adverse effect on our business and our operating results.. Natural disasters may negatively impact our business and results of operations.. Certain of our facilities, including our corporate headquarters in Clearwater, Florida, are located in geographic areas that heighten our exposure to hurricanes, tropical storms and other severe weather events. Future weather events could cause severe damage to our property and technology and could cause major disruptions to our operations. We carry property damage and business interruption insurance; however, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be adequate to cover any losses we may incur. As such, a hurricane, tropical storm or severe weather event may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If our vendors do not continue to provide price protection for inventory we purchase from them, our profit from the sale of that inventory may decline.. It is very typical in our industry that the value of inventory will decline as a result of price reductions by vendors or technological obsolescence. It is the policy of many of our vendors to protect distributors from the loss in value of inventory due to technological change or the vendors' price reductions. Some vendors, however, may be unwilling or unable to pay us for price protection claims or products returned to them under purchase agreements. Moreover, industry practices are sometimes not embodied in written agreements and do not protect us in all cases from declines in inventory value. No assurance can be given that such practices to protect distributors will continue, that unforeseen new product developments will not adversely affect us or that we will be able to successfully manage our existing and future inventories.. Failure to obtain adequate product supplies from our largest vendors, or terminations of a supply or services agreement, or a significant change in vendor terms or conditions of sale by our largest vendors may negatively affect our financial condition or results of operations.. A significant percentage of our revenues are from products we purchase from certain vendors, such as Apple, Inc., HP Inc. and Cisco Systems, Inc. These vendors have significant negotiating power over us and rapid, significant or adverse changes in sales terms and conditions, such as reducing the amount of price protection and return rights as well as reducing the level of purchase discounts and rebates they make available to us, may reduce the profit we can earn on these vendors' products and result in loss of revenue and profitability. Our gross profit could be negatively impacted if we are unable to pass through the impact of these changes to our customers or cannot develop systems to manage ongoing vendor programs. Additionally, changes in vendor payment terms could negatively impact our financial condition. Our standard vendor distribution agreement permits termination without cause by either party upon 30 days notice. The loss of a relationship with any of our key vendors, a change in their strategy (such as increasing direct sales), the merger or reorganization of significant vendors or significant changes in terms on their products may adversely affect our business.. We conduct business in countries outside of the U.S., which exposes us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that result in losses in certain periods.. Approximately 62%, 64% and 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 were generated in countries outside of the U.S., which exposes us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We may enter into short-term forward exchange or option contracts to hedge this risk. Nevertheless, volatile foreign currency exchange rates increase our risk of loss related to products purchased in a currency other than the currency in which those products are sold. While we maintain policies to protect against fluctuations in currency exchange rates, extreme fluctuations have resulted in our incurring losses in some countries. The realization of any or all of these risks could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. The translation of the financial statements of foreign operations into U.S. dollars is also impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may positively or negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, the value of our equity investment in foreign countries may fluctuate based upon changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These fluctuations, which are recorded in a cumulative translation adjustment account, may result in losses in the event a foreign subsidiary is sold or closed at a time when the foreign currency is weaker than when we made investments in the country. In addition, our local competitors in certain markets may have different purchasing models that provide them reduced foreign currency exposure compared to us. This may result in market pricing that we cannot meet without significantly lower profit on sales.. 11. Table of Contents. We have international operations which expose us to risks associated with conducting business in multiple jurisdictions.. Our international operations are subject to other risks such as the imposition of governmental controls, export license requirements, restrictions on the export of certain technology, political instability, trade restrictions, tariff changes, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of laws (in particular related to items such as duty and taxation), difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, longer collection periods and the impact of local economic conditions and practices. There can be no assurance that these and other factors will not have an adverse effect on our business.. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings in the jurisdictions in which we operate may materially impact our financial position and results of operations. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working on the Base Erosion and Profit Sharing Project, and has issued and will continue to issue, guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. Certain countries are evaluating their tax policies and regulations, which could affect international business and may have an adverse effect on our overall tax rate, along with increasing the complexity, burden and cost of tax compliance. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. federal government enacted the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"U.S. Tax Reform\") which significantly revised U.S. corporate income tax law by, among other things, reducing the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and implementing a modified territorial tax system that includes a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. In fiscal 2018, we recorded income tax expenses of $95.4 million, which represents our reasonable estimate of the impact of enactment of U.S. Tax Reform. The amounts recorded include income tax expenses of $101.1 million for the transition tax and a net income tax benefit of $5.7 million related to the remeasurement of net deferred tax liabilities as a result of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate (see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). We are continuing to assess the impacts of the U.S. Tax Reform on our business. Additional changes in the U.S. tax regime or in how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, while our labor force in the U.S. is currently non-union, employees of certain other subsidiaries are subject to collective bargaining or similar arrangements. We do business in certain foreign countries where labor disruption is more common than is experienced in the U.S. and some of the freight carriers we use are unionized. A labor strike by a group of our employees, one of our freight carriers, one of our vendors, a general strike by civil service employees or a governmental shutdown could have an adverse effect on our business. Many of the products we sell are manufactured in countries other than the countries in which our logistics centers are located. The inability to receive products into the logistics centers because of government action or labor disputes at critical ports of entry may have an adverse effect on our business.. We may encounter difficulties in fully integrating TS into our business and may not fully achieve, or achieve within a reasonable time frame, expected strategic objectives and other expected benefits of the acquisition.. The success of the acquisition of TS will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and potential synergies and cost savings from the integration of TS with our existing business. There may be substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in the integration of TS with our own business, including distracting management from day-to-day operations and costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures. In addition, the process of integrating the operations of TS could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel or distribution partners. Any one or all of these factors may increase our operating costs or lower our anticipated financial performance. Our failure to fully integrate TS and achieve the expected benefits from the acquisition of TS within a reasonable time frame or at all could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have incurred substantial indebtedness that may impact our financial position and subject us to financial and operating restrictions, decrease our access to capital, and / or increase our borrowing costs, which may adversely affect our operations and financial results.. Our business requires substantial capital to operate and to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that are not financed by trade creditors. We have historically relied upon cash generated from operations, bank credit lines, trade credit from vendors, proceeds from public offerings of our common stock and proceeds from debt offerings to satisfy our capital needs and to finance growth. The incurrence of debt under our Senior Notes and other credit facilities subject us to financial and operating covenants, which may limit our ability to borrow and our flexibility in responding to our business needs.. As of January 31, 2018, we had approximately $1.6 billion of total debt. If we are not able to maintain compliance with stated financial covenants or if we breach other covenants in any debt agreement, we could be in default under such agreement. Such a default may allow our creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross acceleration or cross-default provision applies. Our overall leverage and terms of our financing could, among other things:. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or for general corporate purposes;. • make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the terms of our debt;. • limit our ability to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us or at all;. • make it more difficult to obtain trade credit from vendors;. • limit our flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions and repurchase shares of our common stock; and. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions.. 12. Table of Contents. Changes in our credit rating or other market factors may increase our interest expense or other costs of capital.. Certain of our financing instruments involve variable rate debt, thus exposing us to the risk of fluctuations in interest rates. Increases in interest rates would result in an increase in the interest expense on our variable rate debt, which would reduce our profitability. In addition, the interest rate payable on the 3.70% Senior Notes and the 4.95% Senior Notes (each as defined herein) and certain other credit facilities would be subject to adjustment from time to time if our credit rating is downgraded.. We cannot predict what losses we might incur in litigation matters, regulatory enforcement actions and contingencies that we may be involved with from time to time, including in connection with the restatement of prior financial statements.. The SEC has requested information from the Company with respect to the restatement of certain of our consolidated financial statements and other financial information from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2013, and the Company is cooperating with the SEC request. See Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings.\" This pending SEC request for information and other potential proceedings could result in fines and other penalties. We have not reserved any amount in respect of these matters in our consolidated financial statements.. We cannot predict whether monetary losses, if any, we experience in any proceedings related to the restatement will be covered by insurance or whether insurance proceeds recovered will be sufficient to offset such losses. Potential civil or regulatory proceedings may also divert the efforts and attention of our management from business operations.. We cannot predict what losses we might incur from other litigation matters, regulatory enforcement actions and contingencies that we may be involved with from time to time. There are various other claims, lawsuits and pending actions against us. We do not expect that the ultimate resolution of these other matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. However, the resolution of certain of these matters could be material to our operating results for any particular period, depending on the level of income for such period. We can make no assurances that we will ultimately be successful in our defense of any of these other matters.. 13. Table of Contents"
