[1] "Item 1A.RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors that affect our business. Such risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from those that are expressed or implied by forward-looking statements contained herein. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. You should also consider the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 and subsequent quarterly reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).. We have suffered recurring operating losses from operations and there is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.. The Company has suffered recurring losses from operations and had an accumulated deficit of $823,000 at September 30, 2017. In addition, we continue to experience negative cash flows from operations. Due to the losses we have incurred and our current limited financial resources, our independent registered public accounting firm has noted in its report on our financial statements that these conditions raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern within one year of the issuance date of the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the uncertainty about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Moreover, the going concern explanatory paragraph may make obtaining financing more difficult or costly, which financing may be required should our efforts to raise capital resources from operations prove unsuccessful.. Our quarterly operating results typically fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain.. We have experienced significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results during the last five years and anticipate continued substantial fluctuations in our future operating results. A number of factors have contributed to these quarterly fluctuations including, but not limited to:. ·foreign political unrest;. ·budgeting cycles of customers, including the U.S. government;. ·introduction and market acceptance of new products and product enhancements by us and our competitors;. ·timing and execution of individual contracts;. ·competitive conditions in the communications security industry;. ·changes in general economic conditions; and. ·shortfalls of revenues in relation to expectations that formed the basis for the calculation of fixed expenses.. Our international operations expose us to additional risks.. The Company is dependent upon its foreign sales (including domestic sales shipped to foreign end-users) and we expect that sales to foreign end-users will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls, trade barriers and trade disputes, regulations related to customs and export/import matters, fluctuations in foreign economies and currency exchange rates, longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, the complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives, consultants and distributors, tax uncertainties and unanticipated tax costs due to foreign taxing regimes, the difficulty of managing and operating an enterprise spanning several countries, the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights and differing legal systems generally, compliance with a variety of laws, and economic and geopolitical developments and conditions, including international hostilities, armed conflicts, acts of terrorism and governmental reactions, inflation, trade relationships, and military and political alliances.. We also may not be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses to conduct operations abroad, including the export of many of the Company’s products, and the U.S. government may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments or certain international end-users. Export restrictions, compliance with which imposes additional burdens on the Company, may further provide a competitive advantage to foreign competitors facing less stringent controls on their products and services.. We continue to focus our efforts in emerging markets, including South America and Southwest Asia. In many of these emerging markets, we may be faced with risks that are more significant than if we were to do business in developed countries, including undeveloped legal systems, unstable governments and economies, and potential governmental actions affecting the flow of goods and currency.. 9. We continue to face a number of risks related to current global economic and political conditions that could unfavorably impact our business.. Global economic conditions continue to be challenging for the secure communications markets, as many economies and financial markets remain in a recession resulting from a number of factors, including adverse credit conditions, low economic growth rates, continuing high rates of unemployment, and reduced corporate capital spending. Economic growth in the U.S. and many other countries has remained low and the length of time these adverse economic conditions may persist is unknown. In addition, conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere have created many economic and political uncertainties that have impacted worldwide markets. These global economic and political conditions have impacted and could continue to impact our business in a number of ways, including:. ·Budgeting and forecasting are difficult: It is difficult to estimate changes in various parts of the U.S. and world economy, including the markets in which we participate. Components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of demand for our products, and the prevailing economic and political uncertainties make estimating future income and expenditures difficult.. ·Potential deferment or cancellation of purchases and orders by customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic and political conditions may cause, and in some cases has caused, governments and businesses to defer or cancel purchases. If future demand for our products declines due to deteriorating global economic and political conditions, it will negatively impact our financial results.. ·Customers' inability to obtain financing to make purchases: Some of our customers require substantial financing, including government financing, in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit or other funds to finance purchases and/or meet their payment obligations could have a negative impact on our financial results.. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapid technological changes in the markets in which we compete.. The markets for TCC’s products and services are characterized by rapid technological developments, changing customer technological requirements and preferences, frequent new product introductions, enhancements and modifications, and evolving industry standards. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to correctly identify emerging technological trends, enhance capabilities, and develop and manufacture new technologies and products quickly, in a cost-effective manner, and at competitive prices. The development of new and enhanced products is a complex and costly process. We may need to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to develop and introduce such new products and enhancements. Our choices for developing technologies may prove incorrect if customers do not adopt the products we develop or if the technologies ultimately prove to be technically or commercially unviable. Development schedules also may be adversely affected as the result of the discovery of performance problems. If we fail to timely develop and introduce competitive new technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Existing or new competitors may develop competing or superior technologies.. The industry in which the Company competes is highly competitive, and the Company has several domestic and foreign competitors. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, distribution and other resources, greater name recognition and longer standing relationships with customers. Competitors with greater financial resources can be more aggressive in marketing campaigns, can survive sustained price reductions in order to gain market share, and can devote greater resources to support existing products and develop new competing products. Any period of sustained price reductions for our products would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. TCC may not be able to compete successfully in the future and competitive pressures may result in price reductions, loss of market share or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. It is also possible that competing products will emerge that may be superior in quality and performance and/or less expensive than those of the Company, or that similar technologies may render TCC’s products obsolete or uncompetitive and prevent the Company from achieving or sustaining profitable operations.. 10. The operating performance of our products is critical to our business and reputation.. The sale and use of our products entail a risk of product failure, product liability or other claims. Occasionally, some of our products have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product or the software used in the product. Often these issues are discovered prior to shipment and may result in shipping delays or even cancellation of orders by customers. Other times problems are discovered after the products have shipped, requiring us to resolve issues in a manner that is timely and least disruptive to our customers. Such pre-shipment and post-shipment problems have ramifications for TCC, including cancellation of orders, product returns, increased costs associated with product repair or replacement, and a negative impact on our goodwill and reputation.. Once our products are in use, any product failure, including software or hardware failure, which causes a breach of security with respect to our customer’s confidential communications could have a material adverse effect on TCC. There is no guarantee of product performance or that our products are adequate to protect against all security breaches. While we attempt to mitigate such risks by maintaining insurance and including warranty disclaimers and liability limitation clauses in our arrangements with customers, such mitigation measures may not protect us against liability in all instances. If our products failed for any reason, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, personal and property losses, harm to reputation, and significant business interruption. Such events may expose us to substantial liability, increased regulation and/or penalties, as well as loss of customer business and a diminished reputation. Any product liability claims and related litigation would likely be time-consuming and expensive, may not be adequately covered by insurance, and may delay or terminate research and development efforts, regulatory approvals and commercialization activities.. If our products and services do not interoperate with our end-users’ products, orders could be delayed or cancelled, which could significantly reduce our revenues.. Our products are designed to interface with our end-users’ existing products, each of which has different specifications and utilizes multiple protocol standards. Many of our end-users’ systems contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these systems have grown and evolved. Our products and services must interoperate with all of these products and services as well as with future products and services that might be added to meet our end-users’ requirements. If our products do not interface with those within our end-users’ products and systems, orders for our products could be delayed or cancelled, which could significantly reduce our revenues.. Government regulation and legal uncertainties could harm our business.. As a party to a number of contracts with the U.S. government and its agencies, the Company must comply with extensive regulations with respect to bid proposals and billing practices. Should the U.S. government or its agencies conclude that the Company has not adhered to federal regulations, any contracts to which the Company is a party could be canceled and the Company could be prohibited from bidding on or participating in future contracts. Moreover, payments to the Company for work performed on contracts with agencies of the U.S. government are subject to audit and adjustment. The Company could be required to return any payments received from U.S. government agencies if it is found to have violated federal regulations. There have been no government audits in recent years and the Company believes the result of such audits, should they occur, would not have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.. The Company’s security products are subject to export restrictions administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce and Department of State, which license the export of encryption products, subject to certain technical restrictions. In addition, U.S. export laws prohibit the export of encryption products to a number of hostile countries and some end-users. Although to date the Company has been able to secure necessary U.S. government export licenses, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be able to secure such licenses in a timely manner in the future, or at all. Delays in obtaining necessary approvals could be costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and compliance costs. Should export restrictions increase or regulations become more restrictive, or should new laws be enacted, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s international business, which impact could be material.. 11. Contracts with the U.S. government may not be fully funded at inception and are subject to termination.. A portion of our revenues has historically been generated under agreements with the U.S. government. Any changes or delays in the budget of the U.S. government, and in particular defense spending, could affect our business, and funding levels are difficult to predict with any certainty. Moreover, certain multi-year contracts are conditioned on the continuing availability of appropriations. However, funds are typically appropriated on a fiscal-year basis, even though contract performance may extend over many years, making future sales and revenues under multi-year contracts uncertain. Changes in appropriations and budgets as well as economic conditions generally in subsequent years may impact the funding for these contracts. In addition, changes in funding and other factors may lead to the termination of such contracts. In addition, U.S. government contracts may be canceled at any time by the government with limited or no notice or penalty. Adverse changes in funding and the termination of government contracts could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.. If the protection of our intellectual property is inadequate, our competitors may gain access to our technologies.. The Company’s technological expertise and experience, including certain proprietary rights that it has developed and maintains as trade secrets, are crucial to the conduct of the Company’s business and its ability to compete in the marketplace. Such technological expertise and experience are important as they enable an efficient design and development process. Loss of this experience and expertise would have an adverse impact on the Company. To protect our proprietary information, we rely primarily on a combination of internal procedures, contractual provisions, and patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. Such internal procedures and contractual provisions may not prove sufficient to maintain the confidentiality and proprietary nature of such information and may not provide meaningful protection in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. Trade secret and copyright laws afford only limited protection. Current and potential patents and trademarks may not provide us with any competitive advantage and patents and trademarks must be enforced and maintained in order to provide protection, which may prove costly and time-consuming.. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we may not be successful in doing so or the steps taken by us may be inadequate to deter unauthorized parties from misappropriating our technologies or prevent them from obtaining and using our proprietary information, products and technologies. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or design around patents issued to us.. Other parties may have patent rights relating to the same subject matter covered by our products or technologies, enabling them to prevent us from operating without obtaining a license and paying royalties. Third parties also may challenge our patents or proprietary rights or claim we are infringing on their rights. Any claims of infringement or misappropriation, with or without merit, would likely be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of resources, and cause delays in the development and commercialization of our products. We may be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing intellectual property, pay royalties, or obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation. Royalties may be costly and licenses, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, the absence of which could seriously harm our business.. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries with respect to intellectual property may not offer the same level of protection as do the laws of the United States. Legal protections of our rights may be ineffective in such countries, and technologies developed in such countries may not be protected in jurisdictions where protection is ordinarily available. Our inability to protect our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Company relies on a small number of customers for a large percentage of its revenues.. We will be successful only if a significant number of customers adopt our secure communications products. Historically the Company has had a small number of customers representing a large percentage of its total sales. Although the Company endeavors to expand its customer base, we expect that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our revenues in any given period for the foreseeable future. This reliance makes us particularly susceptible to factors affecting those customers. If such customers’ business declines and as a result our sales to such customers decline without corresponding sales orders from other customers, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. It is difficult to predict the rate at which customers will use our products, even in the case of repeat customers, and we do not typically have long-term contractual arrangements.. 12. We may not be able to maintain effective product distribution channels.. We rely on an in-house sales force as well as domestic and international representatives, consultants and distributors for the sale and distribution of our products. Our sales and marketing organization may be unable to successfully compete against more extensive and well-funded operations of certain of our competitors. In addition, we must manage sales and marketing personnel in numerous countries around the world with the concomitant difficulties in maintaining effective communications due to distance, language and cultural barriers. Further, certain of our distributors may carry competing products lines, which may negatively impact our sales revenues.. Our management has determined that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is currently not effective.. Our management team, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the Company’s 2017 fiscal year. In the course of that assessment, management identified a control deficiency that was also identified in the course of its assessments for fiscal years 2008 through 2016. Specifically, management determined that TCC lacked sufficient staff to adequately segregate accounting duties, which could result in a misstatement of financial statement items that would not be detected. Management concluded that such control deficiency constituted a material weakness and that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of September 30, 2017.. Until we are able to remediate the material weakness identified, such material weakness may materially and adversely affect our ability to report accurately our financial condition and results of operations in the future in a timely and reliable manner. In addition, although we review and evaluate our internal control systems to allow management to report on the sufficiency of our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional weaknesses in the future or that any corrective actions taken to remediate issues identified during the course of an assessment will be effective. Any such additional weaknesses or failure to remediate any existing weakness could materially adversely affect our financial condition or ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements.. We rely on single or limited sources for the manufacture and supply of certain product components.. For a small percentage of parts, we rely upon a single or limited number of manufacturers and suppliers. Moreover, because we depend on third party manufacturers and suppliers, we do not directly control product delivery schedules or component quality. In addition, we may not be able to maintain satisfactory contractual relations with our manufacturers and suppliers. A significant delay in delivering products to our customers, whether from unforeseen events such as natural disasters or otherwise, or unforeseen quality issues could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we lose any of the manufacturers or suppliers of certain product components, we expect that it would take from three to six months for a new manufacturer or supplier to begin full-scale production of one of our products. The delay and expense associated with qualifying a new manufacturer or supplier and commencing production could result in a material loss of revenue and reduced operating margins and harm our relationships with customers. While we have not experienced any significant supply problems or problems with the quality of the manufacturing process of our suppliers and there have been no materially late deliveries of components or parts to date, it is possible that in the future we may encounter problems in the manufacturing process or shortages in parts, components or other elements vital to the manufacture, production and sale of our products.. 13. The loss of existing key management and technical personnel and the inability to attract new hires could have a detrimental effect on the Company.. Our success depends on identifying, hiring, training, and retaining qualified professionals. Competition for qualified employees in our industry is intense and made more difficult due to the tight labor market in Massachusetts. We expect these conditions to remain so for the foreseeable future. If we were unable to attract and hire a sufficient number of employees, or if a significant number of our current employees or any of our senior managers resign, we may be unable to complete or maintain existing projects or bid for new projects of similar scope and revenue. The Company’s success is particularly dependent on the retention of existing management and technical personnel, including Carl H. Guild, Jr., the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer. Although the Company has entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Guild, the loss or unavailability of his services could impede our ability to effectively manage our operations.. We may need to expand our operations and we may not effectively manage any future growth.. As of December 22, 2017, we employed 23 full-time and two part-time employees as well as several part-time consultants. In the event our products and services obtain greater market acceptance, we may be required to expand our management team and hire and train additional technical and skilled personnel. We may need to scale up our operations in order to service our customers, which may strain our resources, and we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. If our systems, procedures, and controls are inadequate to support our operations, growth could be delayed or halted, and we could lose our opportunity to gain significant market share. In order to achieve and manage growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our operational and financial management capabilities. Any inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition."
