[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business, operations, and the Company face many risks.  The risks described below may not be the only risks we face.  Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results.  If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading ''Cautionary Note Concerning Forward-Looking Statements'' above before deciding whether to invest in our securities.. Risks Relating to Our Business. To the extent cash generated from operations in the future is insufficient to fund our operating requirements, we will be required to seek outside financing. Our inability to obtain necessary capital or financing to fund these working capital needs will adversely affect our ability to expand our operations.. If the cash generated by operations is insufficient to fund our future operating requirements, we will need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. Such financing may not be available to us when needed, or if available, may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and could result in significant dilution to the holdings of our stockholders. Furthermore, any such debt financing is likely to include financial and other covenants that may impede our ability to react to changes in the economy or industry. Although we are in discussions with various possible funding sources and have executed a term sheet, we have no commitments for any such financing at this time. If adequate financing is not available when needed, we may be required to implement cost-cutting strategies, delay production, curtail research and development efforts or implement other measures, which may adversely affect our overall business results of operations and financial condition.. If we experience a period of significant growth or expansion, it could place a substantial strain on our resources.. If our cogeneration and chiller products penetrate the market rapidly, we may be unable deliver large volumes of technically complex products or components to our customers on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost to us.  We have never ramped up our manufacturing capabilities to meet significant large-scale production requirements.  If we were to commit to deliver large volumes of products, we may not be able to satisfy these commitments on a timely and cost-effective basis.. Our operating history is characterized by net losses and there can be no assurance we will be able to increase our sales and sustain profitability in the future.. Although we were able to generate net income from our Products and Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2017, we have historically incurred annual operating losses from such segment. Such business is capital intensive and, because our products generally are built to order with customized configurations, the lead time to build and deliver a unit can be significant. We may be required to purchase key components long before we can deliver a unit. Changes in customer orders or lack of demand may also impact our profitability. There can be no assurance we will be able to increase our sales and sustain or increase or profitability in the future.. 16. TECOGEN INC.. Table of Contents. We are dependent on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the supply of key components for our products.. We use third-party suppliers for components in all of our products.  Our engine supplier, generator supplier for cogeneration products (other than the InVerde), and the compressor and vessel sets in our chillers, are all purchased from large multinational equipment manufacturers.  The loss of one or more of our suppliers could materially and adversely affect our business if we are unable to replace them.  While alternate suppliers for the manufacture of our engine, generator and compressor have been identified, should the need arise, there can be no assurance that alternate suppliers will be available and able to provide such items on acceptable terms or on a timely basis.. From time to time, shipments can be delayed because of industry-wide or other shortages of necessary materials and components from third-party suppliers, as well as shipping delays at points of importation.  A supplier's failure to supply components in a timely manner, or to supply components that meet our quality, quantity, or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources of these components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, could impair our ability to deliver our products in accordance with contractual obligations.. The amount of the Company's backlog is subject to fluctuation due to its customers' experiencing unexpected delays in financing, permitting or modifications in specifications of the equipment.. The Company's total product and installation backlog as of December 31, 2017 was $15.7 million compared to $11.1 million as of 2016.  Although Tecogen expects its customers to issue definitive purchase orders with respect to such backlog, there can be no assurance that such amounts will not be subject to modification in the event customers experience unexpected delays in obtaining permits, interconnection agreements or financing.  Any of such events may result in customers modifying the equipment or the terms or timing of the expected installation, which may result in changes to the amount of backlog attributed to those projects.. We expect significant competition for our products and services.. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are well established and have substantially greater financial, research and development, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do.  If these larger competitors decide to focus on the development of distributed power or cogeneration, they have the manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities to complete research, development, and commercialization of these products more quickly and effectively than we can.  There can also be no assurance that current and future competitors will not develop new or enhanced technologies or more cost-effective systems, and therefore, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this competitive environment.. If we are unable to maintain our technological expertise in design and manufacturing processes, we will not be able to successfully compete.. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to develop and provide innovative products and product enhancements that meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers.. However, this requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in design and manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner.  The development of new, technologically advanced products and enhancements is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends.  There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new or enhanced products to market in a timely manner, successfully lower costs, and achieve market acceptance of our products, or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive.. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the shifting of customer demands or changing industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable.  We may experience delays in releasing new products and product enhancements in the future.  Material delays in introducing new products or product enhancements may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and purchase those of our competitors.. Our intellectual property may not be adequately protected.. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements, and licensing arrangements, but we cannot ensure that we will be able to adequately protect our technology from misappropriation or infringement. We cannot ensure that our existing intellectual property rights will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, or rendered unenforceable.. Our competitors may successfully challenge the validity of our patents, design non-infringing products, or deliberately infringe our patents.  There can be no assurance that other companies are not investigating or developing other similar technologies. In addition, our intellectual property rights may not provide a competitive advantage to us or ensure that our products and technology will be adequately covered by our patents and other intellectual property.  Any of these factors or the expiration, termination, or invalidity of one or more of our patents may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Others may assert that our technology infringes their intellectual property rights.. 17. TECOGEN INC.. Table of Contents. We may be subject to infringement claims from time to time.  The defense of any claims of infringement made against us by third parties could involve significant legal costs and require our management to divert time from our business operations.  If we are unsuccessful in defending any claims of infringement, we may be forced to obtain licenses or to pay additional royalties to continue to use our technology.  We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or if these licenses are costly, our operating results would suffer either from reductions in revenues through our inability to serve customers or from increases in costs to license third-party technologies.. Our success is dependent upon attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel and the loss of key personnel could significantly hurt our business.. To achieve success, we must attract and retain highly qualified technical, operational and executive employees.  The loss of the services of key employees or an inability to attract, train and retain qualified and skilled employees, specifically engineering, operations, and business development personnel, could result in the loss of business or could otherwise negatively impact our ability to operate and grow our business successfully.. Our business is subject to product liability and warranty claims.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims, which are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products, and we may face substantial liability for damages resulting from the faulty design of products, manufacture of products or improper use of products by end users. We currently maintain a moderate level of product liability insurance, but there can be no assurance that this insurance will provide sufficient coverage in the event of a claim.  Also, we cannot predict whether we will be able to maintain such coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that a product liability claim would not harm our business or financial condition.  In addition, negative publicity in connection with the faulty design or manufacture of our products would adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products.. We sell our products with limited warranties. There can be no assurance that the provision in our financial statements for estimated product warranty expense will be sufficient. We cannot ensure that our efforts to reduce our risk through warranty disclaimers will effectively limit our liability.  Any significant occurrence of warranty expense in excess of estimates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flow.  Further, we have at times undertaken programs to enhance the performance of units previously sold.  These enhancements have at times been provided at no cost or below our cost. If we choose to offer such programs again in the future, such actions could result in significant costs.. Utilities or governmental entities could hinder our entry into and growth in the marketplace, and we may not be able to effectively sell our products.. Utilities or governmental entities on occasion have placed barriers to the installation of our products or their interconnection with the electric grid, and they may continue to do so. Utilities may charge additional fees to customers who install on-site CHP and rely on the grid for back-up power. These types of restrictions, fees, or charges could make it harder for customers to install our products or use them effectively, as well as increasing the cost to our potential customers. This could make our systems less desirable, thereby adversely affecting our revenue and other operating results.. The reduction, elimination or expiration of government and economic incentives for applications of our equipment could reduce demand for our equipment and harm our business.. The market for cogeneration equipment depends in part on the availability and size of government and economic incentives that vary by geographic market. Because our sales to customers are typically into geographic areas with such incentives, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for cogeneration equipment may negatively affect the competitiveness of equipment relative to other sources of electricity, heating, and cooling equipment, and could harm or halt the growth of the cogeneration industry and our business. In particular, the Company depends on the New York State Energy Development Authority CHP Program (PON 2568) and the New Jersey Smart Start Combined Heat and Power Incentive.. The Company sometimes incorporates price reduction on equipment sold to customers based on the anticipated receipt of governmental economic incentive payments, and applies for and collects the incentives payments. If such incentives become unavailable to the Company the Company may be materially adversely affected.. Competing sources of electricity, heating, and cooling equipment may successfully lobby for changes in the relevant legislation in their markets that are harmful to the cogeneration industry. Reductions in, or eliminations or expirations of, governmental incentives in regions where we focus our sales efforts could result in decreased demand for and lower revenue from cogeneration equipment there, which would adversely affect the Company. In addition, our ability to successfully penetrate new geographic markets may depend on new geographic areas adopting and maintaining incentives to promote cogeneration, to the extent such incentives are not currently in place. Additionally, electric utility companies may establish pricing structures or interconnection requirements that could adversely affect our sales and be harmful to cogeneration.. 18. TECOGEN INC.. Table of Contents. We may not achieve production cost reductions necessary to competitively price our products, which would adversely affect our sales.. We believe that we will need to reduce the unit production cost of our products over time to maintain our ability to offer competitively priced products. Our ability to achieve cost reductions will depend on our ability to develop low-cost design enhancements, to obtain necessary tooling and favorable supplier contracts, and to increase sales volumes so we can achieve economies of scale. We can make no assurance that we will be able to achieve any such production cost reductions. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our products involve a lengthy sales cycle and we may not anticipate sales levels appropriately, which could impair our results of operations.. The sale of our products typically involves a significant commitment of capital by customers, with the attendant delays frequently associated with large capital expenditures.  For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with our products is typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control.  We expect to plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which is highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially.  If sales in any period fall significantly below anticipated levels, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow would suffer.  If demand in any period increases well above anticipated levels, we may have difficulties in responding, incur greater costs to respond, or be unable to fulfill the demand in sufficient time to retain the order, which would negatively impact our operations.  In addition, our operating expenses are based on anticipated sales levels, and a high percentage of our expenses are generally fixed in the short term.  As a result of these factors, a small fluctuation in timing of sales can cause operating results to vary materially from period to period.. The economic viability of our projects depends on the price spread between fuel and electricity, and the variability of these prices creates a risk that our projects will not be economically viable and that potential customers will avoid such energy price risks.. The economic viability of our CHP products depends on the spread between natural gas fuel and electricity prices. Volatility in one component of the spread, such as the cost of natural gas and other fuels (e.g., propane or distillate oil), can be managed to some extent by means of futures contracts.  However, the regional rates charged for both base load and peak electricity may decline periodically due to excess generating capacity or general economic recessions.. Our products and on-site utility service could become less competitive if electric rates were to fall substantially in the future, although, historically, electric rates have not had any sustained decline in price. Potential customers may perceive the risk of unpredictable swings in natural gas and electricity prices as a risk of investing in on-site CHP, and may decide not to purchase CHP products.. We are exposed to credit risks with respect to some of our customers.. To the extent our customers do not advance us sufficient funds to finance our costs during the execution phase of our contracts, we are exposed to the risk that they will be unable to accept delivery or that they will be unable to make payment at the time of delivery.. We may make acquisitions or take other corporate strategic actions that could harm our financial performance.. To expedite development of our business, including with regard to equipment installation and service functions, we anticipate investigating and potentially pursuing future acquisitions of complementary businesses.  Risks associated with such acquisitions include the diversion of management attention and cash from operating to costs associated with acquisitions, disruption of our existing operations, loss of key personnel in the acquired companies, dilution through the issuance of additional securities, assumptions of existing liabilities, and commitment to further operating expenses.  If any or all of these problems actually occur, acquisitions could negatively impact our financial performance and future stock value.. The Company has recently completed the  acquisition of ADGE. As the Company continues to integrate ADGE's business model into its operations, the Company's financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, U.S. federal tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\"), was signed into law, significantly reforming the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. The TCJA contains significant changes to the U.S. federal corporate income taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for US taxable income. Further, it imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system, and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits. We continue to examine the impact the TCJA may have on our business. The Company is in the process of quantifying the impact of the TCJA and will record any adjustments in accordance with the guidance provided in SAB118.. 19. TECOGEN INC.. Table of Contents. The impact of the TCJA on holders of common stock is uncertain and could be adverse. This Annual Report does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect investors of our common stock. Investors should consult with their own tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by information systems interruptions, cybersecurity attacks or other disruptions which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results from operations.. We depend upon information technology, infrastructure, including network, hardware and software systems to conduct our business. Despite our implementation of network and other cybersecurity measures, our information technology system and networks could be disrupted or experience a security breach from computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Our security measures may not be adequate to protect against highly targeted sophisticated cyber-attacks, or other improper disclosures of confidential and/or sensitive information. Additionally, we may have access to confidential or other sensitive information of our customers, which despite our efforts to protect, may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, or improper disclosure any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. Risks Relating to the Company's Acquisition of ADGE. Through ADGE, we may be exposed to substantial liability claims if we fail to fulfill our obligations to our customers or our on-site equipment malfunctions.. Through ADGE we enter into contracts with large commercial and not-for-profit customers under which we assume responsibility for meeting a portion of the customers' building energy demand and equipment installation. We may be exposed to substantial liability claims if we fail to fulfill our obligations to customers.  If the equipment malfunctions, it may be costly to repair or replace. There can be no assurance that we will not be vulnerable to claims by customers and by third parties that are beyond any contractual protections that we are able to negotiate. As a result, liability claims could cause us significant financial harm.. Expiring ADGE customer contracts may lead to decreases in revenue and increases in expenses.. Each year, a portion of our customer contracts expire and need to be renewed or replaced. We may not be able to renew or extend contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at attractive rates or for the same term as the expiring contracts. To the extent ADGE is unable to extend customer contracts prior to their expiration date, energy production revenue will decline due to less energy billing. Expiring customer contracts can also lead to an increase in expenses because we are obligated to remove the equipment from the customer location at our own expense at the end of the customer contract.. ADGE revenue from energy billing is partly dependent on the weather and increased temperatures could reduce our revenue.. In warmer months the customers do not use as much thermal energy because they do not have as much demand for heat at their locations. Due to lower demand in warmer months we may not be able to bill for thermal energy and in turn may have a decrease in revenue.. Although Tecogen expects that the acquisition of ADGE will result in synergies and other benefits to the Company, we  may not realize those benefits because of difficulties related to integration, the realization of synergies, and other challenges.. Tecogen and ADGE operated, until completion of the Merger, independently, and there can be no assurances that the respective businesses can be combined in a manner that allows for the achievement of substantial benefits. It is possible that there could be loss of Tecogen's or ADGE's key employees, the loss of customers, the disruption of either company's or both companies' ongoing businesses or unexpected issues, higher than expected costs and an overall post-completion process that takes longer than originally anticipated.  Specifically, the following issues, among others, must be successfully addressed in combining Tecogen's and ADGE's operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction:. • combining Tecogen's and ADGE's businesses in a manner that permits Tecogen to achieve the synergies anticipated to result from the transaction, the failure of which would result in the anticipated benefits of the transaction not being realized in the time frame currently anticipated or at all;. • maintaining existing agreements with customers, distributors, and vendors and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers, distributors, and vendors; and. • addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies.. The transaction may not be accretive, and may be dilutive, to the Company's earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of the Company's common stock.. The Company currently expects the Merger to be accretive to its adjusted earnings per share within 12 months after the completion of the transaction. This expectation, however, is based on preliminary estimates that may materially change. In addition, the Company could fail to realize all the benefits anticipated in the transaction or experience delays or inefficiencies in realizing. 20. TECOGEN INC.. Table of Contents. such benefits. Such factors could, combined with the issuance of shares of the Company's common stock in the Merger, result in the transaction being dilutive to the Company's earnings per share, which could negatively affect the market price of shares of the Company's common stock.. Pending litigation relating to the Merger pursuant to which the Company acquired ADGE or any future litigation, has required, and may continue to require, the Company to incur significant costs.. The Company, along with ADGE and certain of our current and ADGE's former directors and officers, have been named as defendants in a class action lawsuit filed prior to the Merger. This litigation has been and any future litigation may be costly and a distraction from the daily operation of our business.  Although the Company maintains, and ADGE maintained prior to the Merger, directors' and officers' insurance coverage, there can be no assurances that this insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover the substantial fees and expenses of lawyers and other professional advisors relating to the pending lawsuit or any future litigation, our obligations to indemnify our officers and directors who are or may become parties to such pending and future actions, or the amount of any judgments or settlements that we may be obligated to pay in connection with such actions. We may be required to make material payments in connection with the defense of or to settle such litigation or to satisfy any adverse judgment.  In addition, such action, or those that arise in the future, could be excluded from coverage or, if covered, could exceed our deductibles and/or the coverage provided. In addition, an adverse outcome of the litigation could cause our insurance premiums and retention amounts to increase in the future.  Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   The Company believes that the lawsuit is without merit and intends to defend it vigorously.  For more information regarding the pending litigation, see \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" and Note 10 \"Commitments and Contingencies\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere herein.. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock. Investment in our Common Stock is subject to price fluctuations and market volatility.. Historically, valuations of many small companies have been highly volatile. The securities of many small companies have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, unrelated to the operating performance or the prospects of such companies.  The market price of shares of our Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including:. • results and timing of our product development;. • results of the development of our competitors' products;. • regulatory actions with respect to our products or our competitors' products;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results;. • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors' operating results or changes in their growth rate;. • competition from existing products or new products that may emerge;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, collaborations, or capital commitments;. • issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts;. • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;. • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares;. • additions or departures of key management or personnel;. • disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to obtain, maintain, defend or enforce proprietary rights relating to our products and technologies;. • announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts;. • sales of our Common Stock by us, our insiders, or our other stockholders; and. • general economic and market conditions.. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies.  These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies.  These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes, or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our Common Stock.  In addition, such fluctuations could subject us to securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could potentially harm our business.. 21. TECOGEN INC.. Table of Contents. We experience significant fluctuations in revenues from quarter to quarter on our product sales which may make period to period comparisons difficult.. We have low volume, high dollar sales for projects that are generally non-recurring, and therefore our sales have fluctuated significantly from period to period. Fluctuations cannot be predicted because they are affected by the purchasing decisions and timing requirements of our customers, which are unpredictable. Such fluctuations may make quarter to quarter and year to year comparisons difficult.. We may be subject to litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention.. Our share price may be volatile and in the past companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to an increased incidence of securities class action litigation.  We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future.  Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Common Stock will depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business.  We do not have any control over these analysts.  There can be no assurance that analysts will cover us, or provide favorable coverage.  If one or more analysts downgrade our Common Stock or change their opinion of our  Common Stock our share price would likely decline.  In addition, if one or more analysts cease coverage of the Company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. Because our directors and executive officers are among our largest stockholders, they can exert influence over our business and affairs and have actual or potential interests that may depart from other stockholders or investors.. As of  the date of this report our directors and executive officers collectively beneficially own approximately 13% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock. John Hatsopoulos, our co-Chief Executive Officer and a director, beneficially owns approximately 9% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock. Additionally, the holdings of our directors and executive officers may increase in the future upon vesting or other maturation of exercise rights under any of the options or warrants they may hold or in the future be granted or if they otherwise acquire additional shares of our Common Stock.  The interests of such persons may differ from the interests of our other stockholders.  As a result, in addition to their board seats and offices, such persons will have influence over corporate actions requiring shareholder approval.. Such persons' stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to acquire us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price.. Current stockholdings may be diluted if we make future equity issuances or if outstanding warrants or options are exercised for shares of our common stock.. \"Dilution\" refers to the reduction in the voting effect and proportionate ownership interest of a given number of shares of common stock as the total number of shares increases.  Our issuance of additional stock, convertible preferred stock, or  convertible debt may result in dilution to the interests of shareholders and may also result in the reduction of your stock price.  The sale of a substantial number of shares into the market, or even the perception that sales could occur, could depress the price of our Common Stock.  Also, the exercise of warrants and options may result in additional dilution.. The holders of outstanding options and warrants (and other convertible securities or derivatives, if any are subsequently issued) have the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our Common Stock, if any, without assuming the risk of ownership, with a resulting dilution in the interests of other stockholders.  We may find it more difficult to raise additional equity capital if it should be needed for our business while the options, warrants and convertible securities are outstanding.. Future sales of  our Common Stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall.. The market price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of our Common Stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur.  These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate and thus inhibit our ability to raise additional capital when it is needed.. Because we have not and do not intend to pay cash dividends, our stockholders receive no current income from holding our stock.. We have paid no cash dividends on our capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. We currently expect to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion. 22. TECOGEN INC.. Table of Contents. of our business, and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.  In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any cash dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our Common Stock could be the sole source of gain for our stockholders for the foreseeable future.. Failure to comply with the Nasdaq Capital Market continued listing requirements could lead to the commencement of delisting proceedings in accordance with the Nasdaq rules.  Delisting could limit investors' ability to effect transactions in the Company's securities and subject the stock to additional trading restrictions.. The Company's Common Stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, a national securities exchange. To maintain such listing, the Company is required to meet its continued listing requirements.  If the Company is unable to maintain the listing of its stock on Nasdaq or another exchange for failure to comply with the continued listing requirements, including timely filing of Exchange Act reports and compliance with Nasdaq's corporate governance requirements, the Company and its security holders could face significant material adverse consequences including a limited availability of market quotations for its stock and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future.. Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage mergers and other transactions.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of the Company.  These provisions may make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions and could delay or prevent someone from acquiring our business.  These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of our Common Stock.  The ability to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock is a traditional anti-takeover measure.  This provision may be beneficial to our management and the board of directors in a hostile tender offer, and may have an adverse impact on stockholders who may want to participate in such tender offer, or who may want to replace some or all of the members of the board of directors.. Our board of directors may issue additional shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock.  Accordingly, our board of directors may, without shareholder approval, issue one or more new series of preferred stock with rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of outstanding shares of our Common Stock.  In addition, the issuance of shares of preferred stock may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging, an acquisition or change of control of the Company.  Although we do not have any current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock, we may do so in the future.. Investor confidence in the price of our stock may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  As of the end of the period covered by this report, our principal executive officers and principal accounting officer have concluded there is a material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, which could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.. As a public company, we are subject to the rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require us to include in our annual report on Form 10-K our management's report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal control over financial reporting (\"management's report\"). If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our disclosure control or internal control over financial reporting, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404.  Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting, particularly that relating to revenue recognition, is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud.  Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss in investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock.  Investor confidence and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.. As of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report, December 31, 2017, our principal executive officers and principal accounting officer performed an evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures and concluded that our controls were not effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by our Company in reports that we file under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported when required.  Management conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and based on this evaluation, management concluded that the company's internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2017. The Company has a small number of employees dealing with general controls over information technology security and user access. This constitutes a material weakness in financial reporting.  Any failure to implement effective internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.  Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock, and may require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control system.. 23. TECOGEN INC.. Table of Contents. In order to comply with public reporting requirements, we must continue to strengthen our financial systems and controls, and failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to provide timely and accurate financial statements.. Refinement of our internal controls and procedures will be required as we manage future growth, integrate the operations of ADGE and operate effectively as a public company. Such refinement of our internal controls, as well as compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related requirements, will be costly and will place a significant burden on management.  We cannot assure you that measures already taken, or any future measures, will enable us to provide accurate and timely financial reports, particularly if we are unable to hire additional personnel in our accounting and financial department, or if we lose personnel in this area. Any failure to improve our disclosure controls or other problems with our financial systems or internal controls could result in delays or inaccuracies in reporting financial information, or non-compliance with SEC reporting and other regulatory requirements, any of which could adversely affect our business and stock price.. The JOBS Act allows us to postpone the date by which we must comply with certain laws and regulations and reduces the amount of information provided by us in reports filed with the SEC. We cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our Common Stock less attractive to investors.. We are and we will remain an \"emerging growth company\", as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, until the earliest to occur of (i) the last day of the fiscal year during which our total annual gross revenues equal or exceed $1 billion (subject to adjustment for inflation), (ii) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt, or (iv) the date on which we are deemed a large accelerated filer under the Exchange Act.. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company we are not required to:. • have an auditor report on our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;. • comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (i.e., an auditor discussion and analysis);. • submit certain executive compensation matters to shareholder non-binding advisory votes;. • submit for shareholder approval golden parachute payments not previously approved; and. • disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and financial performance and comparisons of the Chief Executive Officer's compensation to median employee compensation, when such disclosure requirements are adopted.. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we have chosen to \"opt out\" of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable.. We cannot predict if investors will find our Common Stock less attractive because we may rely on some of these exemptions. If some investors find our Common Stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Common Stock and our stock price may be more volatile. If we avail ourselves of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements, our reduced disclosure may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate us and may result in less investor confidence."
