[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. The risks below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price.. We face strong competition. Our failure to successfully develop and market new products could adversely affect our business.. The medical device industry is highly competitive. We compete with many domestic and foreign medical device companies ranging from small start-up enterprises that might sell only a single or limited number of competitive products or compete only in a specific market segment, to companies that are larger and more established than us, have a broad range of competitive products, participate in numerous markets and have access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do.. In addition, the medical device industry is characterized by extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and enhance existing products. Our product development efforts may require us to make substantial investments. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop new products, enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of our products, due to, among other things, our inability to:. • identify viable new products;. 16. • maintain sufficient liquidity to fund our investments in research and development and product acquisitions;. • obtain adequate intellectual property protection;. • gain market acceptance of new products; or. • successfully obtain regulatory approvals.. In addition, our competitors currently may be developing, or may develop in the future, products that provide better features, clinical outcomes or economic value than those that we currently offer or subsequently develop. Our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our customers depend on third party coverage and reimbursements, and the failure of healthcare programs to provide sufficient coverage and reimbursement for our medical products could adversely affect us.. The ability of our customers to obtain coverage and reimbursement for our products is important to our business. Demand for many of our existing and new medical products is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients' medical expenses in the countries where we do business. Even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, demand for the product may be limited unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and government third party payors. Internationally, healthcare reimbursement systems vary significantly. In some countries, medical centers are constrained by fixed budgets, regardless of the volume and nature of patient treatment. Other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. Without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for many of our medical products would be adversely affected. In this regard, we cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of coverage and reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. Adverse coverage determinations, including reductions in the amount of reimbursement, could harm our business by discouraging customers' selection of our products and reducing the prices they are willing to pay.. In addition, as a result of their purchasing power, third party payors are implementing cost cutting measures such as seeking discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers and imposing limitations on coverage and reimbursement for medical technologies and procedures. These trends could compel us to reduce prices for our products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions associated with restructuring, facility consolidations, realignment, cost reduction and other strategic initiatives.. Over the past several years we have implemented a number of restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including facility consolidations, organizational realignments and reductions in our workforce, and we may engage in similar efforts in the future. While we have realized some efficiencies from these initiatives, we may not realize the benefits of these or future initiatives to the extent we anticipated. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing difficulties in implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. In addition, if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may be compelled to undertake additional restructuring, realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in significant additional charges. Moreover, if our restructuring, realignment and cost reduction efforts prove ineffective, our ability to achieve our other strategic and business plan goals may be adversely affected.. In addition, as part of our efforts to increase operating efficiencies, we have implemented a number of initiatives over the past several years to consolidate our enterprise resource planning, or ERP, systems.  To date, we have not experienced any significant disruptions to our business or operations in connection with these initiatives.  However, as we continue our efforts to further consolidate our ERP systems, we could experience business disruptions, which could adversely affect customer relationships and divert the attention of management away from daily operations. In addition, any delays in the implementation of these initiatives could cause us to incur additional unexpected costs. Should we experience such difficulties, our business, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 17. A significant portion of our United States revenues is derived from sales to distributors, and \"destocking\" activity by these distributors can adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenues in the United States is derived from sales to distributors, who, in turn, sell our products to hospitals and other health care institutions.  From time to time, these distributors may decide to reduce their levels of inventory with regard to certain of our products, a practice we refer to as \"destocking.\"  A distributor's decision to reduce inventory levels with respect to our products may be based on a number of factors, such as distributor expectations regarding demand for a particular product, distributor buying decisions (including decisions to purchase competing products), changes in distributor policies regarding the maintenance of inventory levels, economic conditions and other factors.  For example, during the third quarter of 2016, we experienced a decline in purchases by our United States distributors that adversely affected our revenues and results of operations. We believe the reduction resulted from the distributors' expectations of a less severe 2016-2017 flu season, which resulted in reduced levels of purchasing with respect to certain of our products that are used for treatment of hospitalized patients suffering from the flu.  Following such instances of reduced purchases, distributors may revert to previous purchasing levels; nevertheless, we cannot assure that distributors will, in fact, increase purchases of our products in this manner.  A decline in the level of product purchases by our United States distributors in the future could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations during a reporting period, and an extended decline in such product purchases could have a longer term material adverse effect.. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance. Our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our products are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA and by comparable government agencies in other countries. The regulations govern, among other things, the development, design, approval, manufacturing, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our products. Moreover, these regulations are subject to future change.. In the United States, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we generally must first receive either 510(k) or de novo clearance or approval of a premarket approval application, or PMA, from the FDA. Similarly, most major markets for medical devices outside the United States also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign government authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and clearances and approvals might not be granted for new products on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, once a device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may be required before the device may be modified or its labeling changed. Furthermore, the FDA or a foreign government authority may make its review and clearance or approval process more rigorous, which could require us to generate additional clinical or other data, and expend more time and effort, in obtaining future product clearances or approvals. The regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed realization of product revenues, substantial additional costs or limitations on indicated uses of products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Even after a product has received marketing approval or clearance, such product approval or clearance can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the device or issues relating to its application.. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to adverse effects on our business, which could include:. • partial suspension or total shutdown of manufacturing;. • product shortages;. • delays in product manufacturing;. • warning or untitled letters;. • fines or civil penalties;. • delays in obtaining new regulatory clearances or approvals;. • withdrawal or suspension of required clearances, approvals or licenses;. • product seizures or recalls;. • injunctions;. • criminal prosecution;. 18. • advisories or other field actions;. • operating restrictions; and. • prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from, countries outside the United States.. We could be required to expend significant financial and human resources to remediate failures to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines. In addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under Medicaid or Medicare, could result from regulatory violations. Any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses and performance claims must be adequately substantiated. Promoting a device for an off-label use or making misleading or unsubstantiated claims could result in government enforcement action.. Furthermore, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other federal, state and foreign government authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the FDA's Quality System Regulation, which requires periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures, as well as complaint evaluations and investigation. In addition, any facilities assembling convenience kits that include drug components and are registered as drug repackaging establishments are also subject to current good manufacturing practices requirements for drugs. The FDA also requires the reporting of certain adverse events and product malfunctions and may require the reporting of recalls or other field safety corrective actions. Issues identified through such inspections and reports may result in FDA enforcement action through any of the actions discussed above. Moreover, issues identified through such inspections and reports may require significant resources to resolve.. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the governments of those states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include:. • the federal healthcare anti-kickback statute, which, among other things, prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully offering or paying remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, or soliciting payment for such referrals, purchases, orders and recommendations;. • federal false claims laws which, among other things, prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false or fraudulent claims for payment from the federal government, including Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors;. • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\"), which prohibits schemes to defraud any healthcare benefit program and false statements relating to healthcare matters; and. • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other government regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment of personnel, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found to have violated these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations.. Further, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the \"Affordable Care Act\"), imposed annual reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any \"transfer of value\" made or distributed to physicians or teaching hospitals. The reported information is made publicly available in a searchable format. In addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties for each payment, transfer. 19. of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission, up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for \"knowing failures\").. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to healthcare providers. Some states, such as California, Connecticut, Nevada and Massachusetts, mandate implementation of compliance programs that include the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation for consulting and other services, and other remuneration to healthcare providers. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with the different compliance and/or reporting requirements among a number of jurisdictions increases the possibility that we may inadvertently violate one or more of the requirements, resulting in increased compliance costs that could adversely impact our results of operations.. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, as well as product recalls, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our reputation as a medical device company may be damaged if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective.. Our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. In particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings for procedures involving seriously ill patients. In addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time. Product defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to products we manufacture or sell could result in patient injury or death. In addition, in connection with the divestitures of our former non-medical businesses, we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to those businesses, which include, among other things, liability for products manufactured prior to the date on which we completed the sale of the business.  Product liability and warranty claims often involve very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive damages. The magnitude of potential losses from product liability lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time, and the related legal defense costs may be significant. We could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims.. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may voluntarily participate, or be required by regulatory authorities to participate, in a recall of that product. In the event of a recall, we may lose sales and be exposed to individual or class-action litigation claims. Moreover, negative publicity regarding a quality or safety issue, whether accurate or inaccurate, could harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, lead to product withdrawals or impair our ability to successfully launch and market our products in the future. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The ongoing volatility in the domestic and global financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained global credit markets could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions.  The economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets that occurred in recent years led to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending, resulting in reductions, delays or cancellations of purchases of our products and services.  Despite some improvements in recent years, economic conditions continue to cause disruption in some financial markets, resulting in, among other things, diminished liquidity and credit availability. We cannot predict the duration or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more typical spending behaviors. The continuation of the present broadly applicable economic trends of weak economic growth, constricted credit, public sector austerity measures in response to public budget deficits and foreign currency volatility, particularly with respect to the euro, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Additionally, our customers, particularly in Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece, have extended or delayed payments for products and services already provided, which has increased our focus on collectability with respect to our accounts receivable from these customers. To date, we have not experienced an inordinate amount of payment defaults by our customers, and we have sufficient lending commitments in place to enable us to fund our foreseeable additional operating needs. However, the ongoing uncertainty in the European financial markets, combined with a continuation of constrained European credit markets creates a risk that some of our European customers and suppliers may be unable to access liquidity. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, our aggregate net current and long term trade accounts receivable in Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece were $49.1 million and $51.1 million, respectively. In 2017, 2016 and. 20. 2015, net revenues from these countries were approximately 6%, 7% and 7% of total net revenues, respectively, and average days that accounts receivable from these countries were outstanding were 154, 182 and 204 days, respectively. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to cover the estimated losses which may occur when customers cannot make their required payments, we cannot assure that the loss rate will not increase in the future given the volatility in the worldwide economy. If our allowance for doubtful accounts is insufficient to address receivables we ultimately determine are uncollectible, we would be required to incur additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, our inability to collect outstanding receivables could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow from operations.. In addition, adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future impairment charges with respect to our goodwill and other intangible assets, which would not directly affect our liquidity but could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results.. Our strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income and may have material impacts on our operating results.. Our strategic initiatives include making significant investments designed to achieve revenue growth and to enable us to meet or exceed margin improvement targets. If we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected.. In addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our joint ventures or strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. In this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, technologies, services and products and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. Moreover, the products and technologies that we acquire may not be successful or may require us to devote significantly greater development, marketing and other resources, as well as significantly greater investments, than we anticipated. We could also experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets, asset impairment charges and other matters that could arise in connection with the acquisition of a company or business, including matters related to internal control over financial reporting and regulatory compliance, as well as the short-term effects of increased costs on results of operations.  Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will identify all such risks or the magnitude of the risks. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and expenditures. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. There can be no assurance that difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In connection with certain of our completed acquisitions, we have agreed to pay consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of specified objectives, such as receipt of regulatory approval, commercialization of a product or achievement of sales targets.  As of the acquisition date, we record a contingent liability representing the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration we expect to pay.  As of December 31, 2017, we accrued $272.1 million of contingent consideration, of which, the vast majority related to our acquisition of NeoTract.  On a quarterly basis, we revalue these obligations and record increases or decreases in their fair value as an adjustment to operating earnings, which could have a material impact on our results of operations.   In addition, actual payments may differ materially from the amount of the contingent liability we have recorded, which could have a material impact on our cash flows  and liquidity.  For information regarding assumptions related to our contingent consideration liabilities, see \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" under Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  For additional information regarding our acquisitions, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Health care reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our business.. Political, economic and regulatory developments have effected fundamental changes in the healthcare industry. The Affordable Care Act substantially changed the way health care is financed by both government and private insurers. It also encourages improvements in the quality of health care products and services and significantly impacts the United States pharmaceutical and medical device industries. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act:. 21. • established a 2.3% excise tax on sales of medical devices with respect to any entity that manufactures or imports specified medical devices offered for sale in the United States, although this tax was suspended for 2016 and 2017 as a result of the enactment of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 and has been further suspended for 2018 and 2019 as a result of the enactment of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018;. • established a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research;. • implemented payment system reforms, including a national pilot program to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; and. • created an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce Medicare spending if projected Medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate.. In 2015, we recorded an expense of $10.2 million with respect to the medical device excise tax. While, as noted above, the excise tax has been suspended through 2019,we will again be subject to the excise tax in 2020 unless the suspension is extended further. We cannot predict at this time the full impact of the Affordable Care Act or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  In this regard, several legislative initiatives to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act were proposed, but not adopted in 2017.  However, the recently adopted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act eliminated the individual mandate under the Affordable Care Act, which has resulted in increased uncertainty regarding insurance premium prices for participants in insurance exchanges under the act, and may have other effects. The longer-term viability of, or the nature of any modification of, or legislative substitution for, the Affordable Care Act is highly uncertain, and we cannot predict the effect that any of these events would have on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are subject to risks associated with our non-United States operations.. We have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations in a number of countries outside the United States, including Belgium, the Czech Republic, Germany, Ireland, Malaysia and Mexico. In addition, a significant portion of our non-United States revenues are derived from sales to third party distributors.  As of December 31, 2017, 75% of our full-time and temporary employees were employed in countries outside of the United States, and approximately 45% of our net property, plant and equipment was located outside the United States. In addition, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 approximately 42%, 46% and 47%, respectively, of our net revenues (based on the Teleflex entity generating the sale) were derived from operations outside the United States.. Our international operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States, including:. • exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values;. • trade protection measures;. • potentially costly and burdensome import or export requirements;. • laws and business practices that favor local companies;. • changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and procedures;. • subsidies or increased access to capital for firms that currently are or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations;. • substantial foreign tax liabilities, including potentially negative consequences resulting from changes in tax laws;. • restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings;. • differing labor regulations;. • additional United States and foreign government controls or regulations;. • difficulties in the protection of intellectual property; and. • unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests.. In addition, the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-United States jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper. 22. payments to non-United States officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded United States corporations and their foreign affiliates, which, among other things, are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments to government officials, and to prevent the establishment of \"off the books\" slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with government entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. However, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree.  Despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures, we may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees, distributors or other agents.  In addition, we may be exposed to liability due to pre-acquisition conduct of employees, distributors or other agents of businesses or operations we acquire. Violations of anti-bribery laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also could be subject to severe penalties and other adverse consequences, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, substantial expenditures related to further enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions, as well as harm to our reputation.. Furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the United States, including the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Department of the Treasury, as well as other laws and regulations administered by the Department of Commerce. These regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. While we train our employees and contractually obligate our distributors to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. Failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the disgorgement of profits, the imposition of a court-appointed monitor, the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in United States government contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results.. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. Products manufactured in, and sold into, foreign markets represent a significant portion of our operations. Our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-United States currencies to United States dollars, our reporting currency, as well as the foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of assets and liabilities and from transactions denominated in currencies other than the primary currency of the country in which the entity operates, which we refer to as \"non-functional currencies.\" A strengthening or weakening of the United States dollar in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, will affect our United States dollar-reported revenue and income. Although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of our monetary assets and liabilities and projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currencies in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations.. Many of our products have significant plastic resin content. We also use quantities of other commodities, such as aluminum and steel. Increases in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, particularly with respect to those products we sell under group purchase agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Increases in interest rates may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and suppliers, thereby adversely affecting their ability to buy our products and supply the components or raw materials we need.  In addition, our borrowing costs could be adversely affected if interest rates increase.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 23. Fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect us.. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of these jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate may, however, differ from the estimated amount due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws (including the impact of recently enacted United States tax legislation as discussed immediately below). Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") was enacted on December 22, 2017.  The TCJA permanently reduces the United States corporate income tax rate from a maximum of 35% to 21%; puts into effect a territorial tax system, generally providing for, among other things, a dividends received deduction on the foreign source portion of dividends received from a foreign corporation if specified conditions are met; imposes a one-time repatriation tax on undistributed post-1986 earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries, which are deemed repatriated for purposes of the tax; and creates, modifies or repeals many other statutory and regulatory provisions. Our consolidated financial statements as of, and for the year ended December 31, 2017, include provisional amounts with respect to the deemed repatriated earnings and the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities.  While we believe that the provisional amounts constitute reasonable estimates, we continue to examine the impact the TCJA may have on our business.   Once our accounting for the income tax effects of the TCJA is complete, the amounts with respect to the income tax effects of the TCJA may differ from the provisional amounts, possibly materially, due to, among other things, additional analysis, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, and actions we may take as a result of the TCJA.. An interruption in our manufacturing or distribution operations or our supply of raw materials may adversely affect our business.. Many of our key products are manufactured at or distributed from single locations, and the availability of alternate facilities is limited. If operations at one or more of our facilities is suspended due to natural disasters or other events, we may not be able to timely manufacture or distribute one or more of our products at previous levels or at all. Furthermore, our ability to establish replacement facilities or to substitute suppliers may be delayed due to regulations and requirements of the FDA and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products. In addition, in the event of delays or cancellations in shipments of raw materials by our suppliers, we may not be able to timely manufacture or supply the affected products at previous levels or at all. The manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems in the manufacturing process, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortages, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. A failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in quality or safety issues.  A reduction or interruption in manufacturing or distribution, or our inability to secure suitable alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our ability to attract, train, develop and retain key employees is important to our success.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain our key personnel, including our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. Our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain other key employees, including research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. We may experience difficulties in retaining executives and other employees due to many factors, including:. • the intense competition for skilled personnel in our industry;. • fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions;. • changes in our organizational structure;. • our restructuring initiatives;. • competitors' hiring practices; and. • the effectiveness of our compensation programs.. 24. Our inability to attract, train, develop and retain such personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals.. We depend on our ability to maintain strong working relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals in connection with research and development for some of our products. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and advice regarding the development and use of these products. Physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and, as a result, no longer have the benefit of their knowledge and advice, our products may not be developed in a manner that is responsive to the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could put us at a competitive disadvantage.. We rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. Although we own numerous United States and foreign patents and have submitted numerous patent applications, we cannot be assured that any pending patent applications will issue, or that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In addition, we rely on confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees and take other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology by competitors or other persons who may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as in the United States. We cannot assure that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach their confidentiality agreements with us, misappropriate proprietary information, copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop know-how and trade secrets comparable to ours or develop better technology than our own, which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed.. Our products or processes may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products.. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. If we are found liable for infringement, we may be compelled to enter into licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages or cease making or selling certain products. We may need to redesign some of our products or processes to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing events could be detrimental to our business.. Other pending and future litigation may involve significant costs and adversely affect our business.. We are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving, among other things, contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 25. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total consolidated indebtedness of 2.3 billion.. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to satisfy our debt obligations. It could also have significant effects on our business. For example, it could:. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for such general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • restrict us from pursuing business opportunities; and. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness.. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness when due or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to:. • refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness;. • sell assets;. • reduce or delay capital expenditures; or. • seek to raise additional capital.. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions.. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our debt agreements impose restrictions on our business, which could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions and may adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations.. Our senior credit agreement and the indentures governing our 5.25% senior notes due 2024 (the \"2024 Notes\"), our 4.875% senior notes due 2026 (the \"2026 Notes\") and our 4.625% senior notes due 2027 (the \"2027 Notes\" and, together with the 2024 Notes, the \"Senior Notes\") contain covenants that, among other things, impose significant restrictions on our business. The restrictions that these covenants place on us and our restricted subsidiaries include limitations on our and their ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock or otherwise disqualified stock;. • create liens;. • pay dividends, make investments or make other restricted payments;. • sell assets;. • use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets;. • merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and. • enter into transactions with our affiliates.. In addition, our senior credit agreement also contains financial covenants, including covenants requiring maintenance of a consolidated leverage ratio, a secured leverage ratio and a consolidated interest coverage ratio, calculated in accordance with the terms of the senior credit agreement. A breach of any covenants under any one or. 26. more of our debt agreements could result in a default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. In addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions.. The warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our Convertible Notes may adversely affect the value of our common stock.. In connection with the issuance of our 3.875% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2017 (the \"Convertible Notes\"), we entered into privately negotiated hedge transactions with two counterparties, which we refer to as the \"hedge counterparties.\" The hedge transactions involved the issuance to us of call options that covered the number of shares of our common stock underlying the Convertible Notes.  The call options were designed to reduce the dilution with respect to our common stock we were required to issue and/or cash payments we were required to make upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. Separately, we also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties under which we have issued shares of our common stock, and very likely will be obligated to issue additional shares of our common stock on various warrant expiration dates that occur through August 31, 2018, at an exercise price of $74.65, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. When Convertible Notes were converted in accordance with their terms, the hedge transactions were effected through our exercise of call options; when we purchased Convertible Notes from the holders in exchange for cash and our common stock, the call options with respect to shares underlying those Convertible Notes were canceled, and the number of outstanding warrants was reduced. Following the maturity of the Convertible Notes on August 1, 2017, no further call options were outstanding, and warrants to purchase 724,648 shares of our common stock remained outstanding. Subsequent warrant exercises have had, and based on recent market prices of our common stock, will continue to have, a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock. Between November 1, 2017 and December 31, 2017, warrants to purchase 165,034 shares were exercised and, after retaining 43,251 shares to cover payment of the exercise price and paying cash in lieu of fractional shares, we delivered 105,638 shares to the hedge counterparties. As of December 31, 2017, warrants to purchase 559,614 shares of our common stock remained outstanding. If we so elect, in lieu of delivering our common stock upon exercise of the warrants, we may make cash payments to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the exercise price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. In addition, under applicable accounting guidance, changes in the share price of our common stock can have a significant impact on the number of shares that we must include in the fully diluted earnings per share calculation with respect to the warrants, which, in turn, could impact our reported financial results. Based on the average market price of our common stock during 2017, 0.5 million shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants were included in the total diluted shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2017. For additional information, see \"Financing Arrangements\" under Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. In connection with establishing their positions under the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions, the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) entered into various cash-settled over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly following, the pricing of the Convertible Notes. The hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may, in their sole discretion, with or without notice, modify their hedge positions from time to time by entering into or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to shares of our common stock, and/or by purchasing or selling shares of our common stock in privately negotiated transactions and/or open market transactions. The effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock.. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, which could lower the price of our common stock.. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into our common stock. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding approximately 45.2 million shares of our common stock, options to purchase approximately 1.7 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 1.2 million were vested as of that date), restricted stock units covering approximately 0.2 million shares of our common stock (which are expected to vest over the next three years) and approximately 9,600 shares of our common stock to be distributed from our deferred compensation plan. As of December 31, 2017, 4.5 million shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options and upon the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the Convertible Notes. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock.. 27. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, such issuances may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Furthermore, our issuance of shares following the exercise of some or all of the outstanding stock options and warrants, as well as the vesting of restricted stock units will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of such shares of our common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the issuance and sale of substantial amounts of our common stock, including common stock issued as a result of the exercise of stock options and warrants and vesting of restricted stock units could depress the price of our common stock.. Disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems may adversely affect our business and customer relationships.. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. We also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to enable us to interact with customers and suppliers, fulfill orders, generate invoices, collect and make payments, ship products, provide support to customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. Our internal information technology systems, as well as those systems maintained by third-party providers, may be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber-attacks, any of which could result in data leaks or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. Cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and in some cases have caused significant harm.  Although we have taken numerous measures to protect our information systems and enhance data security, we cannot assure that these measures will prevent security breaches that could have a significant impact on our business, reputation and financial results. If we fail to monitor, maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity effectively or fail to anticipate, plan for or manage significant disruptions to these systems, we could, among other things, lose customers, have difficulty preventing fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, be subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur expenses, lose revenues or suffer other adverse consequences.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Regulations related to conflict minerals may increase our costs and adversely affect our business.. In 2012, the SEC promulgated rules under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as \"conflict minerals,\" included in components of products either manufactured by public companies or for which public companies have contracted to manufacture. These rules require that we undertake due diligence efforts to determine whether such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the \"DRC\") or an adjoining country and, if so, whether such minerals helped finance armed conflict in the DRC or an adjoining country. In accordance with applicable regulations, we have filed conflict minerals reports annually, beginning in 2014.  As discussed in these reports, we have determined that certain of our products contain the specified minerals, and we have undertaken, and continue to undertake, efforts to identify where such minerals originated.  We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the sources of the specified minerals used in our products. These rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. Our customers may require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be adversely affected if we are unable to provide assurances to our customers that our products are \"DRC conflict free\" (generally, the product does not contain conflict minerals originating in the DRC or an adjoining country that directly or indirectly finance or benefit specified armed groups) due to, among other things, our inability to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all.  Moreover, we may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting customer demands that we provide products that are DRC conflict free.  We also may face reputational challenges if our due diligence efforts do not enable us to verify the origins of all conflict minerals or to determine that any conflict minerals used in products we manufacture or in products manufactured by others for us are DRC conflict-free.. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental and health and safety liabilities.. We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things:. • the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials;. • emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and. 28. • the health and safety of our employees.. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of products and services.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 10% of our employees in the United States and in other countries were covered by union contracts or collective bargaining arrangements. It is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. Strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business.. We may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future.. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, requirements under covenants in our debt instruments, legal requirements and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. We cannot assure that our cash dividend will not be reduced, or eliminated, in the future.. Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents, Delaware law and our senior notes could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the number of shares in a series, the consideration, dividend rights, liquidation preferences, terms of redemption, conversion or exchange rights and voting rights, if any, of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or deterring a third party from acquiring us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock.. Certain provisions in the indentures governing the Senior Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. If an acquisition event constitutes a \"change of control,\" as defined in the indentures governing the Senior Notes, holders of such notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash (in the case of the 2027 Notes, the right will apply if the change in control is coupled with a ratings downgrade).  Our obligations under the Senior Notes could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, and accordingly could cause a reduction in the market price of our common stock."
