[1] "Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Our current business and future results may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks. 16. actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have a history of losses and cannot assure you that we will become profitable. As a result, we may have to cease operations and liquidate our business.. With the exception of 2015, our expenses exceeded our revenue in each of the last 12 years, and no net income has been available to common stockholders during each of these years. As of December 31, 2017, our stockholders' equity was $44.8 million and we had an accumulated deficit of $60.1 million. Our future profitability depends on revenue exceeding expenses, but we cannot assure you that this will occur. If we do not become profitable or continue to raise external financing, we could be forced to curtail operations and sell or liquidate our business, and you could lose some or all of your investment.. We rely on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our revenues.. We depend on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our revenue. Three of our customers accounted for 57% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, and three of our customers accounted for 43% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a significant impact on our revenues and harm our business and results of operations.. Due to our dependence on a limited number of products, our business will be materially adversely affected if these products do not perform as well as expected.. We expect to generate a significant portion of our total revenues and gross margin from the sale of a limited number of products. While we continue to diversify our product portfolio, one of our products accounted for 17% and 23% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Any material adverse developments, including increased competition, loss of customers, pricing pressures and supply shortages, with respect to the sale or use of our products and prospective products, or our failure to successfully introduce such products, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross margin.. The pharmaceutical industry in which we operate is intensely competitive. We are particularly subject to the risks of competition. For example, the competition we encounter may have a negative impact upon the prices we may charge for our products, the market share of our products and our revenue and profitability.. The pharmaceutical industry in which we operate is intensely competitive. The competition that we encounter has an effect on our product prices, market share, revenue and profitability. Depending upon how we respond to this competition, its effect may be materially adverse to us.. We compete with:. • the original manufacturers of the brand-name equivalents of our generic products; and. • other generic drug manufacturers.. Most of the products that we are developing are either generic drugs or products without patent protection. These drugs and are therefore more subject to the risk of competition than patented products. In addition, because many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, production and research and development resources, substantially larger sales and marketing organizations, and substantially greater name recognition than we have, we are particularly subject to the risks inherent in competing with them. For example, many of our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with, or superior to, our own. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly than those of our competitors or offer purchasers of our products payment and other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors.. Furthermore, in the current political climate in which drug prices are a focus of the current administration, Congress, government and private payors, and the public more broadly, we cannot predict whether new legislative, regulatory, or other measures related to drug pricing may be enacted. If enacted, such drug pricing measures could have an impact on our gross margins from product sales, which could significantly and adversely impact our financial condition and cash flows.. 17. As our competitors introduce their own generic equivalents of our generic pharmaceutical products, our revenues and gross margin from such products may decline, potentially rapidly.. Revenues and gross margin derived from generic pharmaceutical products often follow a pattern based on regulatory and competitive factors that we believe are unique to the generic pharmaceutical industry. As the patent(s) for a brand name product and the statutory marketing exclusivity period (if any) expires, the first generic manufacturer to receive regulatory approval for a generic equivalent of the product often is able to capture a substantial share of the market. However, as other generic manufacturers receive regulatory approvals for identical competing products, that market share, and the price of that product, may decline depending on several factors, including the number of competitors, the price of the brand product and the pricing strategy of the new competitors. In addition, the FDA has continued to shorten the review and response time to certain ANDAs, as a result of their guidelines established under GDUFA. If this trend continues, and the FDA is successful in reducing the current backlog of unapproved ANDAs, currently pending approval at the FDA, competitors could potentially enter the markets in which we compete more quickly. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to develop such products or that the number of competitors with such products will not increase to such an extent that we may stop marketing a product for which we previously obtained approval, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenues and gross margin.. Our strategy depends on our ability to successfully develop and launch new pharmaceutical products ahead of our competitors.. Our continued growth is dependent upon our ability to develop and commercialize products in a timely manner.  We may encounter delays in testing and manufacturing new pharmaceutical products, submitting applications for regulatory approval, receiving approval from the relevant authorities and commercializing new products.  This process is costly and time-consuming.  Delays at any stage could prevent us from successfully launching new products ahead of our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of generics through their legislative, regulatory and other efforts, sales of our generic products may be adversely impacted.. Many pharmaceutical companies increasingly have used state and federal legislative and regulatory means to delay generic competition. These efforts have included:. • pursuing new patents for existing products that may be granted just before the expiration of earlier patents, which could extend patent protection for additional years or otherwise delay the launch of generics;. • selling the brand product as an \"authorized generic,\" either by the brand company directly, through an affiliate or by a marketing partner;. • using the Citizen Petition process to request amendments to FDA standards or otherwise delay generic drug approvals;. • seeking changes to the U.S. Pharmacopeia, an FDA, and industry recognized compendia of drug standards;. • attaching patent extension amendments to non-related federal legislation;. • engaging in state-by-state initiatives to enact legislation that restricts the substitution of some generic drugs, which could have an impact on products that we are developing; and. • seeking patents on methods of manufacturing certain active pharmaceutical ingredients.. If pharmaceutical companies or other third parties are successful in limiting the use of generic products through these or other means, our sales of our generic products may decline. If we experience a material decline in generic product sales, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be significantly and adversely impacted.. Our generics business also faces increasing competition from brand-name manufacturers that do not face any significant regulatory approval or other barriers to enter into the generics market.. Our generics business also faces increasing competition from brand-name manufacturers that do not face any significant regulatory approval or other barriers to enter into the generics market. These brand-name companies sell \"authorized generic\" versions of their products to the market directly, acquire or form strategic alliances with our competitor generic pharmaceutical companies, or grant them rights to sell \"authorized generics.\" Moreover, brand-name companies continually seek new ways to delay the. 18. introduction of generic products and decrease the impact of generic competition, such as filing new patents on drugs whose original patent protection is about to expire, developing patented controlled-release products, changing product claims and product labeling, or developing and marketing as over-the-counter products those branded products that are about to face generic competition, when feasible. Our competitors, which include major multinational corporations, are consolidating in both the branded and generics industries, and the strength of the combined companies could affect our competitive position in all of our business areas. Furthermore, if one of our competitors or its customers acquires any of our customers or suppliers, we may lose business from the customer or lose a supplier of a critical raw material.. We may need to raise additional capital that will be required to operate and grow our business, and we may not be able to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all.. Operating our business and maintaining our growth efforts will require additional cash outlays and capital expenditures. If cash on hand and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we will need to seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to the Company, our significant stockholders, or at all. Financings may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the current price per share of our common stock. The holders of new securities may also have rights, preferences or privileges which are senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If new sources of financing are required, but are insufficient or unavailable, we will be required to modify our growth and operating plans based on available funding, if any, which would harm our ability to grow our business or even stay in business.. Our business and operations have experienced rapid growth, and if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, our business will be adversely affected.. We have experienced, and are continuing to experience, rapid growth over the last several years, and additional growth through acquisitions is possible in the future.  Such growth has put significant demands on our management and infrastructure.  Our success will depend in part upon our ability to manage this growth effectively.  As we continue to grow, we must improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures.  We must ensure that our policies and procedures evolve to reflect our current operations.  We must also continue to effectively manage existing employees and to hire, train and manage new employees as needed.  Any failure to expand these areas and implement appropriate procedures and controls in an efficient manner and at a pace consistent with our business objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Sales of our products may continue to be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the concentration of our customer base. The result of such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. Our principal customers are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug store chains. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions, alliances and partnerships among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drug store chains has decreased. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers. In addition, the Company generally does not enter into long-term supply agreements with its customers that would require them to purchase our products. The result of these developments may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. We face intense competition in the consumer products business.. Our business competes with large, well-financed cosmetic, pharmaceutical and consumer products companies with development and marketing groups that are experienced in the industry and possess far greater resources than those available to us. There is no assurance that we can compete successfully against our competitors or that we can develop and market products that will be favorably received in the marketplace.. Lack of availability, issues with quality or significant increases in the cost of raw materials used in manufacturing our products could adversely impact our profit margins and operating results.. Affordable, high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to our business due to the nature of the products we manufacture. Raw materials and packaging components are generally available from multiple suppliers. Supplies of certain. 19. raw materials, and finished goods purchased by us are limited, or are available from one or only a few suppliers that have been pre-approved by FDA for use in the manufacture of our products. In this type of limited-supplier situation, increased prices, rationing and/or shortages can occur. In response to the situation, we try to identify alternative materials or suppliers for such raw materials and finished goods like containers and closures. However, FDA requirements for products approved through the ANDA or NDA process could substantially lengthen the time for approval of an alternate material source. Certain material shortages and approval of alternate sources could adversely affect our financial results. The rapid increase in cost of many raw materials from inflationary forces, such as increased energy costs, and our ability or inability to pass on these increases to our customers, could have a material impact on our financial results.. In addition, raw materials purchased from third parties, including those from foreign countries, may contain counterfeit ingredients or other adulterants. We maintain a strict program of verification and product testing throughout the ingredient sourcing and manufacturing process to identify potential counterfeit ingredients, adulterants and toxic substances. Nevertheless, discovery of previously unknown problems with the raw materials or product manufacturing processes or new data suggesting an unacceptable safety risk associated therewith, could result in a voluntary or mandatory withdrawal of a potentially contaminated product from the marketplace, either temporarily or permanently. In addition, because regulatory authorities must generally approve raw material sources for pharmaceutical products, changes in raw material suppliers or the quality of their products may result in production delays or higher raw material costs. Also, any future recall or removal would result in additional costs to us, and may give rise to product liability or other litigation, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our products, and the raw materials used to make those products, generally have limited shelf lives. Our inventory levels are based, in part, on expectations regarding future sales. We may experience build-ups in inventory if sales slow. Any significant shortfall in sales may result in higher inventory levels of raw materials and finished products, thereby increasing the risk of inventory spoilage and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, labeling changes required for regulatory compliance could render packaging inventories obsolete. Cargo thefts and/or diversions and economically or maliciously motivated product tampering in store shelves may be experienced from time to time, causing unexpected shortages.. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for API. Generally, only a single source of API is qualified for use in each product due to the costs and time required to validate a second source of supply. Changes in API suppliers must usually be approved through a Prior Approval Supplement by the FDA.. We maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous due to regulatory, performance, quality, support, or price considerations. Unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the relevant product in a timely manner. The effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume or more profitable products. Even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of revenues. As a result, the loss of a single-source supplier could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Incidents related to hazardous materials could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. There are portions of our operations that require the controlled use of hazardous materials. Although we are diligent in designing and implementing safety procedures to comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state, and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination of property or injury to individuals from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an incident, we could be liable for any damages that result, which could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We are subject to stringent regulatory requirements. Failure to adhere to such requirements could harm our business and results of operations.. In the United States, we and our suppliers of raw materials are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other current and potential future federal, state or local regulations. Failure to adhere to such regulations, by either us or our suppliers, could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, our analytical department uses certain hazardous materials and chemicals in limited and controlled quantities. We have implemented safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials, however, such procedures may not comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations. Even if we follow such safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials and chemicals and such procedures comply with applicable law, the risk of accidental. 20. contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages and any such liability could exceed our resources.. Our operations and properties are also subject to a wide variety of increasingly complex and stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater. Such environmental laws may apply to conditions at properties and facilities presently or formerly owned or operated by us, as well as to conditions at properties at which wastes or other contamination attributable to us have been sent or otherwise come to be located. One of our facilities has undergone remediation of environmental contamination, and one of our facilities is currently undergoing remediation of environmental contamination. The total estimated costs for the clean-up and remediation is $0.9 million as of December 31, 2017, and remaining costs accrued at December 31, 2017 totaled $0.1 million. Based on information provided to us from our environmental consultants and what is known to date, we believe the reserves are sufficient for the remaining remediation of the environmental contamination. There is a possibility, however, that the remediation costs may exceed our estimates. In addition, we can give no assurance that the future cost of compliance with existing environmental laws will not give rise to additional significant expenditures or liabilities that would be material to us. Future events, such as new information, changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation, and more vigorous enforcement policies of federal, state or local regulatory agencies, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In Canada, we and our suppliers of raw materials are also subject to regulation under Hazardous Products Act, Controlled Products Regulations, Consumer Product Safety Act. Canadian Environmental Protection Act and other current and potential future federal, provincial/territorial or local regulations. Failure to adhere to such regulations, by either us or our suppliers, could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, our analytical department uses certain hazardous materials and chemicals in limited and controlled quantities. We have implemented safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials, however, such procedures may not comply with the standards prescribed by federal, provincial/territorial and local regulations. Even if we follow such safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials and chemicals and such procedures comply with applicable law, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages and any such liability could exceed our resources.. Future events, such as new information, changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation, and more vigorous enforcement policies of federal, provincial/territorial or local regulatory agencies, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to extensive government regulation by the FDA and other federal, state and local regulatory authorities that increases our costs and could prevent us from marketing or selling our products.. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, marketing, advertising and sale of our products, among other things, are subject to extensive regulation by one or more U.S. agencies, including the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission and the Consumer Products Safety Commission, as well as by several state and local agencies in localities where our products are stored, distributed or sold. In addition, we manufacture and market certain of our products in accordance with standards set by organizations, such as the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, or USP, a scientific nonprofit organization that sets standards for the identity, strength, quality, and purity of medicines, food ingredients, and dietary supplements manufactured, distributed and consumed worldwide. USP's drug standards are enforceable in the United States by the FDA.. The FDA regulates the testing, manufacture, labeling, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. Approval by the FDA is required before any new drug, including any new generic drug, may be marketed or sold in the United States. In order to receive approval from the FDA for our product candidates that are generic versions of brand-name drugs, we intend to use the Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, route, which requires us to demonstrate to the FDA that each generic product candidate has the same active ingredient, strength, dosage form, route of administration and intended use as a corresponding approved drug product and is bioequivalent to the branded drug product (approved under a New Drug Application, or NDA), meaning that there is no significant difference between the drugs in their rate and extent of absorption in the body. However, if the FDA determines that an ANDA for a generic drug product is not adequate to support approval, it could deny our application or request additional data or information, which could delay approval of the product and impair our ability to compete with the brand-name drug product and/or other generic versions of the product.. If our product candidates receive FDA approval through the ANDA process, the labeling claims and marketing statements that we can make for our generic drugs are generally limited to the claims approved by the FDA for use in the brand-name product's label. In addition, following regulatory approval, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements.. 21. As a manufacturer of pharmaceutical products, we must also comply with cGMPs, or current Good Manufacturing Practices, which include requirements related to production processes, quality control and assurance and recordkeeping. Our manufacturing facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. Any material deviations from pharmaceutical cGMPs or other applicable requirements identified during such inspections may result in recalls or other enforcement actions, including warning letters, a delay or suspension in manufacturing operations, consent decrees or civil or criminal penalties. Further, discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer may result in restrictions or sanctions, including suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals, seizures or recalls of products from the market, or civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products.. We are subject to extensive government regulation by Health Canada and other federal, state provincial/territorial and local regulatory authorities that increases our costs and could prevent us from marketing or selling our products.. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, marketing, advertising and sale of our products, among other things, are subject to extensive regulation by one or more Canadian agencies, including Health Canada, as well as by several state and local agencies in localities where our products are stored, distributed or sold. In addition, we market certain of our products in accordance with standards set by organizations, such as the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, or USP, and the British Pharmacopeia, or BP, scientific nonprofit organizations that sets standards for the identity, strength, quality, and purity of medicines, food ingredients, and dietary supplements manufactured, distributed and consumed worldwide. Adherence to USP and BP published drug standards are prescribed by the Food and Drug Regulations.. Health Canada regulates the testing, manufacture, labeling, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. Approval by Health Canada is required before any new drug, including any new generic drug, may be marketed or sold in Canada. In order to receive approval from Health Canada for our product candidates that are generic versions of brand-name drugs, we intend to use the ANDS,  or Drug Identification Number Application, or DINA, routes, which requires us to demonstrate to Health Canada that each generic product candidate has the same active ingredient, strength, dosage form, route of administration and intended use as a corresponding approved drug product and is bioequivalent to the branded drug product (approved under a New Drug Submission or NDS or Drug Identification Number Application, or DINA), meaning that there is no significant difference between the drugs in their rate and extent of absorption in the body. However, if Health Canada determines that an ANDS or DINA for a generic drug product is not adequate to support approval, it could deny our application or request additional data or information, which could delay approval of the product and impair our ability to compete with the brand-name drug product and/or other generic versions of the product.. If our product candidates receive Health Canada approval through the ANDS or DINA process, the labeling claims and marketing statements that we can make for our generic drugs are generally limited to the claims approved by Health Canada for use in the brand-name product's label. In addition, following regulatory approval, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements.. As an importer and distributor of pharmaceutical products, we must also comply with cGMPs, or current Good Manufacturing Practices, which include requirements related to production processes, quality control and assurance and recordkeeping. Our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to periodic inspection by Health Canada and foreign regulatory agencies. Any material deviations from pharmaceutical cGMPs or other applicable requirements identified during such inspections may result in recalls or other enforcement actions, including non-compliance ratings, a delay or suspension in manufacturing operations. Further, discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer may result in restrictions or sanctions, including suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals, seizures or recalls of products from the market, and revoking of licenses, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products.. Our global operations expose us to certain risks, including challenges associated with political and economic instability, major hostilities and acts of terrorism.. We are a global company with operations outside of the United States.  We face numerous risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including terrorist acts, acts of war, political unrest, public health concerns, labor disputes and national disasters.  Such events may lead to economic and political uncertainties and contribute to global economic instability.  We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing events in a timely and effective manner.  Consequently, the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, including loss of sales or customers.. Violations of cGMP and other government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. 22. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used to manufacture pharmaceutical products for clinical use or for commercial sale in the United States and other Teligent markets must be operated in conformity with cGMP regulations as required by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Our suppliers' facilities are subject to scheduled periodic regulatory and customer inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP and other requirements applicable to such products. A finding that we or one or more of our suppliers had materially violated these requirements could result in one or more regulatory sanctions, loss of a customer contract, disqualification of data for client submissions to regulatory authorities and a mandated closing of our suppliers' facilities, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. During our efforts to expand our existing manufacturing facility, as well as potentially select and build out an additional manufacturing facility, we could experience business interruptions, as well as incur significant capital expenditures to complete the expansions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We manufacture drug products at one domestic manufacturing facility. This facility may be forced to shut down or may be unable to operate at full capacity as a result of potential expansion plans. A significant disruption at this facility, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship drug products to the market on a timely basis, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We could experience business interruptions at our manufacturing facility, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We manufacture drug products at one domestic manufacturing facility. This facility may be forced to shut down or may be unable to operate at full capacity as a result of hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, storms and other extreme weather events as well as strikes, war, violent upheavals, terrorist acts and other force majeure events. A significant disruption at this facility, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship drug products to the market on a timely basis, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We are currently in the process of expanding  our manufacturing facilities. Any delays in the expansion process or in the receipt of certain regulatory approvals in connection therewith could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We are in the process of expanding and upgrading our existing manufacturing facilities in Buena, New Jersey.  Upon the completion of this expansion, we intend to transfer the manufacture of certain sterile injectable, for which we currently rely on CMOs, to this facility.  Any delays in the expansion process could increase the overall cost of the expansion and could force us to postpone the planned transfer of our manufacturing to this facility.  In addition, any delays or denials of the regulatory approvals needed to begin manufacturing products at this facility could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our reporting and payment obligations related to our participation in federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, are complex and often involve subjective decisions that could change. Any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to investigation, penalties, and sanctions.. Federal laws regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to a pharmaceutical company's participation in federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, are complex. These programs generally require us to pay rebates or provide discounts to government payors in connection with our products that are dispensed to beneficiaries of these programs. In some cases, such as with the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the rebates are based on pricing and rebate calculations that we report on a quarterly basis to the government agencies that administer the programs. Because our processes for calculating applicable government prices and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to risk of errors and differing interpretations. In addition, they are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes that may have material adverse legal, regulatory, or economic consequences. Responding to current and future changes may increase our costs and the complexity of compliance will be time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition, the Office of Inspector General has recently increased its focus on the methodologies used by manufacturers to calculate the average manufacturer price, or AMP, and best price, or BP, to assess manufacturer compliance with reporting requirements under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. We are liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data and for overcharging government payors. For example, failure to submit quarterly AMP and BP data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the submission is late beyond the due date. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify overpayments could result in allegations against us under the Federal False Claims Act and other laws and regulations.. 23. Our policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, failure to supply penalties and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers may reduce revenues in future fiscal periods.. We, like other generic drug manufacturers, have agreements with customers allowing chargebacks, product returns, administrative fees, failure to supply penalties and other rebates. Under many of these arrangements, we may match lower prices offered to customers by competitors. If we choose to lower our prices and if contractually obligated, we issue a credit on the products that the customer is holding in inventory, which could reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period the credit is provided. Under many of these arrangements, we may have failure to supply penalties, which in the event we are unable to supply a certain product and are unable to meet the needs of our customers, we may incur failure to supply penalties which may be significant. Like our competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to wholesalers with whom we have contracts for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing organizations, pharmacies or other customers. A chargeback is the difference between the price at which we invoice the wholesaler and the price that the wholesaler's end-customer pays for a product. Although we establish reserves based on prior experience and our best estimates of the impact that these policies may have in subsequent periods, we cannot ensure that our reserves are adequate or that actual product returns, allowances, and chargebacks will not exceed our estimates. As we continue to experience the consolidation of our customers, which may result in changes to previous patterns of ordering and/or pricing of our products, this could disrupt our established methodologies for calculating our provisions for chargebacks and other accruals.. We are subject to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse and false claims laws and may be subject to related litigation brought by the government or private individuals.. We are subject to state and federal healthcare laws pertaining to fraud and abuse, physician payment transparency and laws that govern the submission of claims for reimbursement. These laws include the following:. • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act;. • the federal False Claims Act, or FCA, which imposes civil liability and criminal fines on individuals or entities that knowingly submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. The FCA also allows private individuals to bring a suit on behalf of the government against an individual or entity for violations of the FCA. These suits, also known as qui tam actions, may be brought by, with only a few exceptions, any private citizen who believes that he has material information of a false claim that has not yet been previously disclosed. These suits have increased significantly in recent years because the FCA allows an individual to share in any amounts paid to the federal government in fines or settlement as a result of a successful qui tam action;. • federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any federal healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. • the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the government information related to payments or other \"transfers of value\" made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members and payments or other \"transfers of value\" to such physician owners and their immediate family members;. • the Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information;. • the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) including its anti-bribery provisions, which make it unlawful for certain classes of persons and entities to make payments to foreign government officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business; and. • analogous state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require. 24. pharmaceutical companies to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs, and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment, or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results, action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, it could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. Healthcare legislative reform measures may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In the United States, there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. For example, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or the Affordable Care Act, was passed, which substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the U.S. pharmaceutical industry. The Affordable Care Act, among other things, addresses a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected, increases the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and extends the rebate program to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products or additional pricing pressures.. Even after our products receive regulatory approval, such products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance.. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our generic pharmaceutical products the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance. Levels of market acceptance for our products could be impacted by several factors, including but not limited to:. • the availability of alternative products from our competitors;. • the price of our products relative to that of our competitors;. • the timing of our market entry;. • the ability to market our products effectively to the different levels in the distribution chain;. • other competitor actions; and. • the continued acceptance of and/or reimbursement for our products by government and private formularies and/or third party payors.. Additionally, studies of the proper utilization, safety, and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies, and others. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, including methods to investigate the comparative effectiveness of different products used for similar indications, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed as well as future products. In some cases, studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of product marketing or other risk management programs, such as the need for a patient registry, as well as delays in approvals. The occurrence of any of the above risks could adversely affect our profitability, business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flow, and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. Product recalls could harm our business.. Product recalls or product field alerts may be issued at our discretion or required by the FDA and Health Canada, other governmental agencies or other companies having regulatory authority for pharmaceutical product sales. From time to time, we may recall products for various reasons, including failure of our products to maintain their stability through their expiration dates or other. 25. quality issues. Any recall or product field alert has the potential of damaging our reputation or the reputation of the product. Any significant recalls could materially affect our sales. In these cases, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. We are susceptible to product liability claims that may not be covered by insurance and could require us to pay substantial sums.. We face the risk of loss resulting from, and adverse publicity and reputational harm associated with, product liability lawsuits, whether or not such claims are valid. We may not be able to avoid such claims. In addition, our product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover such claims and we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage in the future at acceptable costs. A successful product liability claim that exceeds our policy limits could require us to pay substantial sums. In addition, product liability coverage for pharmaceutical companies is becoming more expensive and increasingly difficult to obtain and, as a result, we may not be able to obtain the type and amount of coverage we desire or to maintain our current coverage.. The manufacture and storage of pharmaceutical and other products are subject to inherent risk.. Because chemical ingredients are used in the manufacture of our products and due to the nature of the manufacturing process itself, there is a risk of incurring liability for damages caused by or during the storage or manufacture of both the chemical ingredients and the finished products. Although we have never incurred any material liability for damages of that nature, we may be subject to liability in the future. In addition, while we believe our insurance coverage is adequate, it is possible that a successful claim would exceed our coverage, requiring us to pay a substantial sum.. The testing required for the regulatory approval of our products is conducted by independent third parties. Any failure by any of these third parties to perform this testing properly and in a timely manner may have an adverse effect upon our ability to obtain regulatory approvals.. Our applications for the regulatory approval of our products incorporate the results of testing and other information that is conducted or gathered by independent third parties (including, for example, manufacturers of raw materials, testing laboratories, CROs or independent research facilities). Our ability to obtain regulatory approval of the products being tested is dependent upon the quality of the work performed by these third parties, the quality of the third parties' facilities, and the accuracy of the information provided to us by third parties. We have little or no control over any of these factors. If this testing is not performed properly, our ability to obtain regulatory approvals could be restricted or delayed. In addition, if third party fraud or other recordkeeping problems are discovered after our products are approved for marketing, any government investigations or findings could result in any products that incorporated those fraudulent results having their regulatory approvals withdrawn.. The failure to obtain, maintain or protect patents, trade secrets, know-how and other intellectual property could impact our ability to compete effectively.. To compete effectively, we need to develop and maintain a proprietary position with regard to our own technology, products and business. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, proprietary know-how and other intellectual property to protect our proprietary technology and rights. We also maintain a number of trade secrets, know-how and other intellectual property.. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to patents and other proprietary rights include the following:. • the pending patent applications we have filed or may file, or to which we have exclusive rights, may not result in issued patents, or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents;. • changes in U.S. patent laws may adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain our patent protection;. • we may be subject to interference proceedings;. • the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection;. • we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable;. • the patents licensed or issued to us or our collaborators may not provide a competitive advantage;. • other companies may challenge patents licensed or issued to us or our collaborators;. 26. • other companies may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, or duplicate our technology;. • other companies may design around technologies we have licensed or developed; and. • enforcement of patents is complex, uncertain and expensive.. The trademark applications we have filed or may file may not result in trademark registrations, which would result in lesser protections for our brands.. Our product offerings and our customers' products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties.. From time to time, third parties have asserted intellectual property infringement claims against us and our customers and there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against either us or our customers in the future. While we believe that our product offerings do not infringe in any material respect upon proprietary rights of other parties and/or that meritorious defenses would exist with respect to any assertions to the contrary, there can be no assurance that we would not be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others.. Patent applications in the U.S. and some foreign countries are generally not publicly disclosed until they are published or the patent is issued, and we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our offerings or processes. If patents later issue on these applications, we may be found liable for subsequent infringement. There has been substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries with respect to the manufacture, use and sale of products and processes that are the subject of conflicting patent rights.. Any claims that our product offerings or processes infringe these rights, regardless of their merit or resolutions, could be costly and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We may not prevail in such proceedings given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If such proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we could, among other things, be required to:. • pay damages in the form of lost profits and/or a reasonable royalty for any infringement;. • pay substantial damages (potentially treble damages in the U.S. if any such infringement is found to be willful);. • pay attorney fees of a prevailing party, if the case is found to be exceptional;. • cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing offerings or processes;. • discontinue the use of the infringing technology;. • expend significant resources to design around patented technology and develop non-infringing technology; and. • license patented technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or may not be available at all.. In addition, our customers' products may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement and such claims could materially affect our business if their products cease to be manufactured and they have to discontinue the use of the infringing technology which we may provide. Further, depending on the particular circumstances of any given claim, it may be the case that we may be responsible for indemnifying our customers for a claim of intellectual property infringement.. If we were to assert any of our own intellectual property against third parties and the third parties were found not to infringe our intellectual property or our intellectual property was found to be invalid, and/or unenforceable, we would lose the opportunity to leverage our own intellectual property, for example, through licensing of our technology to others, collection of damages and/or royalty payments based upon successful assertion of our intellectual property rights via enjoining others from practicing the technology at issue.. Any of the foregoing could affect our ability to compete or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Significant balances of intangible assets, including goodwill, are subject to impairment testing and may result in impairment charges, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 27. A significant amount of our total assets is related to goodwill and intangible assets,  including in-process research and development. As of December 31, 2017 the value of our goodwill and intangible assets net of accumulated amortization was $56.0 million. Goodwill and other intangible assets are tested for impairment annually when events occur or circumstances change that could potentially reduce the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset. Impairment testing compares the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset to its carrying amount. Any future goodwill or other intangible asset impairment, if any, would be recorded in operating income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to fully realize the expected benefits from the acquisition of certain products and/or companies.. Our recent acquisition of certain products and a company subjects us to additional operational and financial risks, including the following:. • additional costs that we may need to incur in order to return the products to the market and to comply with regulatory requirements;. • difficulties in coordinating research and development activities;. • uncertainties in the business relationships with our customers and suppliers; and. • lack of previous experiences in manufacturing, commercializing, and distributing products in therapeutic areas outside of the topical generic pharmaceutical market and in markets outside of the United States.. Our approved products may not achieve commercialization at levels of market acceptance that allow us to achieve profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We seek to develop, license or acquire products that we can commercialize at levels of market acceptance that would allow us to recoup the costs of development and commercialization, grow market share, and achieve profitability. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for certain pharmaceutical products, if we fail to accurately predict demand for such products, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Levels of market acceptance for products could be impacted by several factors, including but not limited to:. • the availability of alternative products from our competitors;. • the price of our products relative to that of our competitors;. • the effectiveness of our marketing relative to that of our competitors;. • the timing of our market entry;. • the ability to market our products effectively to the retail level; and. • the acceptance of our products by government and private formularies.. Some of these factors are not within our control and, if any arises, our profitability, business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Future acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results.. Our growth will depend, in part, on our continued ability to develop, commercialize and expand our drug products, including in response to changing regulatory and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we accelerate our growth through the acquisition of complementary products and technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable products to be acquired can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete or successfully execute strategies for identified acquisitions. The risks faced in connection with acquisitions include:. • diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition and/or product integration challenges;. • coordination of research and development and sales and marketing functions;. 28. • retention of key employees from the acquired company;. • integration of the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems;. • the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies;. • liability for activities of the acquired company and/or products before the acquisition, including patent infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities;. • unanticipated write-offs or charges; and. • litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company or product, including claims from product users, former stockholders or other third parties.. In any acquisition that we may undertake, our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.. We may become involved in legal proceedings from time to time which may result in losses, damage to our business and reputation and place a strain on our internal resources.. In the ordinary course of our business, we may be involved in legal proceedings with both private parties and certain government agencies, including FDA. Enforcement actions and litigation may result in verdicts against us, which may include significant monetary awards, judgments that certain of our intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable and injunctions preventing the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. If disputes are resolved unfavorably, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Any government enforcement action or litigation, whether or not successful, may damage our reputation. Furthermore, we are likely to incur substantial expense in defending these actions and lawsuits, and the time demands of such enforcement actions and lawsuits could divert management's attention from ongoing business concerns and interfere with our normal operations.. In the normal course of business, we periodically enter into employment agreements, legal settlements, and other agreements which incorporate indemnification provisions. We maintain insurance coverage which we believe will effectively mitigate our obligations under these indemnification provisions. However, should our obligation under an indemnification provision exceed our coverage or should coverage be denied, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our product development programs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and the further development of our product candidates may be delayed.. In addition, we rely on complex information technology systems, including Internet-based systems, to support our supply chain processes as well as internal and external communications. The size and complexity of our systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown or interruption, whether due to computer viruses or other causes that may result in the loss of key information or the impairment of production and other supply chain processes. Such disruptions and breaches of security could adversely affect our business.. Compliance with ongoing post-marketing obligations for our approved ANDAs, NDAs, NDSs, and ANDSs may uncover new safety information that could give rise to a product recall, updated warnings, or other regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business.. 29. After the FDA or Health Canada approves a drug for marketing under an NDA, ANDA, NDS, or ANDS, the product's sponsor must comply with several post-marketing obligations that continue until the product is discontinued.  These post-marking obligations include the prompt reporting of serious adverse events to the agency, the submission of product-specific annual reports that include changes in the distribution, manufacturing, and labeling information, and notification when a drug product is found to have significant deviations from its approved manufacturing specifications (among others).  Our ongoing compliance with these types of mandatory reporting requirements could result in additional requests for information from the FDA or Health Canada and, depending on the scope of a potential product issue that the FDA or Health Canada may decide to pursue, potentially also result in a request from the agency to conduct a product recall or to strengthen warnings and/or revise other label information about the product.  Any of these post-marketing regulatory actions could materially affect our sales and, therefore, they have the potential to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Economic conditions could severely impact us.. Current economic conditions may cause a decline in business and consumer spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our operating results are impacted by the health of the North American economies. Our business and financial performance, including collection of our accounts receivable, realization of inventory, recoverability of assets including investments, may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions, such as a reduction in the availability of credit, financial market volatility and recession.. Adverse conditions in the economy and disruption of financial markets could negatively impact our customers and therefore our results of operations.. An economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for these products and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers' ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products in a timely manner, or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Additionally, economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers causing them to be unable to supply in a timely manner sufficient quantities of product components, thereby impairing our ability to manufacture on schedule and at commercially reasonable costs.. If the U.S. economy rapidly contracts or expands, we may have difficulty quickly scaling our operations in response, which may negatively impact our business and financial position.. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business may be harmed.. We will need to hire or retain qualified personnel with expertise in nonclinical testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing, sales and marketing and finance. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous pharmaceutical and consumer products companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, our stock price could suffer.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting. At the end of each fiscal year, we must perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, include in our annual report the results of the evaluation and have our external auditors also publicly attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and if additional material weaknesses are found in our internal controls in the future, if we fail to remediate our existing material weaknesses, if we fail to complete future evaluations on time or if our external auditors cannot attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we could fail to meet our regulatory reporting requirements and be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could continue to impact negatively our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner.. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2017. We identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal. 30. control over financial reporting and concluded that, as of December 31, 2017, we did not maintain effective control over financial reporting based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Item 9A, \"Controls and Procedures.\" Each of our material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements that we prepare will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform extensive additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. As described in Item 9A, \"Controls and Procedures\" we restated our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017. Moreover, other material weaknesses may be identified.. We are in the process of remedying all of the identified material weaknesses, and this work will continue during fiscal 2018 and beyond. For a detailed description of our remedial efforts, see Item 9A, \"Controls and Procedures.\" There can be no assurance as to when all of the material weaknesses will be remedied. Until our remedial efforts are completed, management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts, and we will continue to incur expenses associated with the additional procedures and resources required to prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our remedial actions, such as hiring additional qualified personnel to implement our reconciliation and review procedures, will be ongoing and will result in our incurring additional costs even after our material weaknesses are remedied.. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, or fail to update our internal control over financial reporting as our business evolves or to integrate acquired businesses into our controls system, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information in a timely and accurate manner or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC, an inability for us to be accepted for listing on any national securities exchange in the near future, securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the market value of our Common Stock. Further, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. We could face additional litigation exposure and a greater likelihood of an SEC enforcement or other regulatory action if further restatements were to occur or other accounting-related problems emerge. In addition, any future restatements or other accounting-related problems may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or common stock price.. Although we report our financial results in U.S. Dollars, a portion of our revenues and other liabilities and our costs are denominated in non-U.S. currencies, including the Euro and Canadian Dollar. Our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been and may in the future be adversely affected by certain movements in currency exchange rates. The occurrence of any of the above risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price.. The Company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates.. The Company operates in multiple jurisdictions denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. Additionally, the Company. may enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowing or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency exposure. Since. the Company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange. rates could negatively affect the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carry forwards, or NOLs, of approximately $41.7 million which expire from 2020 through 2037. Our ability to utilize our NOLs may be limited under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The limitations apply if an ownership change, as defined by Section 382, occurs. Generally, an ownership change occurs when certain shareholders increase their aggregate ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage in a testing period (typically three years). Our ability to use net operating loss carry forwards is subject to substantial limitation in future periods under certain provisions of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, which limit the utilization of net operating losses upon a more than 50% change in ownership of our stock that is held by 5% or greater stockholders. We examined the application of Section 382 with respect to an ownership change that took place during 2010, as well as the limitation on the application of net operating loss carry forwards. We believe that operating losses subsequent to the change date in 2010 (aggregating $23.1million) are not subject to Section 382 limitations. We have estimated that the annual limitation starting in 2010 aggregates from $1.0 million to $2.3 million per year including the effect of amortization of built in gains.. 31. We are subject to the provisions of ASC 740-10-25, Income Taxes (ASC 740). ASC 740 prescribes a more likely-than-not threshold for the financial statement recognition of uncertain tax positions. ASC 740 clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. On a quarterly basis, we undergo a process to evaluate whether income tax accruals are in accordance with ASC 740 guidance on uncertain tax positions. For federal purposes,  (except for the years 2014 and 2015, which have been examined by the Internal Revenue Services), post 1998 tax years remain open to examination as a result of net operating loss carryforwards. We are currently open to audit by the appropriate state income taxing authorities for tax years 2013 through 2016.. The recently passed comprehensive federal tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" or TCJA, which significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and net operating loss carryforwards, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities have been  revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the impact  was recognized in our tax expense in the year of enactment. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The overall impact of the TCJA is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We are currently involved in antitrust litigation related to our pricing practices.. Complaints have been filed against us in each of the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey and the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania alleging violations of various provisions of federal and state antitrust laws in connection with the sale of our antifungal skin cream Econazole Nitrate 1% product. While we intend to vigorously defend our position in connection with both lawsuits, the outcome of the litigation could result in serious fines being levied on us, along with harm to our reputation. Any negative outcome from this or any other investigation related to our pricing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Shares of our common stock can be relatively illiquid which may affect the trading price of our common stock.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was approximately 430,788 shares. As a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger.. We have not paid dividends to our common stockholders in the past nor do we expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, and any return on investment may be limited to potential future appreciation on the value of our common stock.. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support the development and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account various factors, including without limitation, our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. To the extent we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable because a return on investment will only occur if and to the extent our stock price appreciates, which may never occur. In addition, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation as the only way to realize their investment, and if the price of our stock does not appreciate, then there will be no return on investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if we fail to achieve and maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, our business results of operations and financial condition, and investors' confidence in us, could be materially adversely affected.. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Exchange Act including preparing annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could. 32. subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. In addition, we are required under applicable law and regulations to integrate our systems of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Our management assessed our existing disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2017, and our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2017, solely because of the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting described herein in Item 9A(ii).. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude that we have effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock.. Our principal stockholders, directors and executive officers own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over our affairs.. Our current principal stockholders, directors and executive officers own in the aggregate a significant portion of the voting power of our capital stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock.. Due to the concentration of common stock owned by significant stockholders, the sale of such stock might adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Our largest stockholders own shares of common stock that have been registered for resale under the Securities Act. The sale of such stock, depending on the interplay of numerous factors, including, without limitation, the method and timing of the sales, could substantially depress the value of our common stock. If such stockholders sold a significant amount of stock it could have an adverse effect on the price of the stock.. Our stock price is, and we expect it to remain, volatile and subject to wide fluctuations, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of common stock at or above the price for which they were acquired.. Our stock price is, and we expect it to remain, volatile, which could limit investors' ability to sell stock at a profit. During the last two fiscal years, our stock price has closed at a low of $2.82 in the fourth quarter of 2017 and a high of $9.54 in the second quarter of 2017. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to:. • publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us;. • delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing nonclinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of these trials;. • achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us;. • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us;. • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents;. • developments concerning our collaborations;. • regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries;. • economic or other crises in the markets in which we compete, and other external factors;. 33. • stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the cosmetic, pharmaceutical and consumer products industry;. • actual or anticipated sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders;. • period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and other results of operations; and. • speculation about our business in the press or the investment community.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation, even if it does not result in liability for us, could result in substantial costs to us and divert management's attention and resources.. If we fail to meet the continued listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Select Market, our common stock could be delisted and our liquidity and stock price could suffer.. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, a national securities exchange, which imposes continued listing requirements with respect to listed shares. If we fail to meet the continued listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Select Market, our common stock could be delisted and our stock price could suffer. A delisting of our shares of common stock could negatively impact us by further reducing the liquidity and market price of our shares of common stock and the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our shares of common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing.. Risks Related to the Notes. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Notes, purchase the Notes as required pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing the Notes or pay the redemption price for any Notes we redeem, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the Notes.. On December 16, 2014, we completed the sale of $125 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2019, or the Notes, to Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as the initial purchasers and on December 22, 2014, we issued to the initial purchasers an additional $18.75 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes. Pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing the Notes, following certain events, holders of Notes will have the right to require us to purchase their Notes for cash. Such event may also constitute an event of default or prepayment under, and result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the purchase price in cash with respect to any Notes surrendered by holders for purchase at that time, make cash payments upon conversions or pay the redemption price for any Notes we redeem. In addition, restrictions in our then existing credit facilities or other indebtedness, if any, may not allow us to purchase the Notes (even if required pursuant to the terms of the indenture), make cash payments upon conversions of the Notes or pay the redemption price for any Notes we redeem would result in an event of default with respect to the Notes which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness, if any. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and purchase the Notes, make cash payments upon conversions thereof or pay the redemption price for any Notes we redeem.. Our substantial indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Notes.. After giving effect to the issuance of the Notes, we will have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, our total consolidated indebtedness was $143.75 million.  The Notes are due in December 2019.  Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, may have a material adverse impact on us. For example, it could. • make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding and other future debt obligations;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions or a downturn in the industries in which we operate;. • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, investments, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. 34. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to the payment to our financing sources, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, investments, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; and. • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, to pay any cash due upon conversion of or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. To the extent we issue shares of our common stock to satisfy all or a portion of our conversion obligation, conversions of the Notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their Notes.. The holders of our Notes can require us, under certain circumstances, to convert their Notes. We have the option to satisfy this conversion obligation with cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock at our election. To the extent we issue shares of our common stock to satisfy all or a portion of our conversion obligation, the conversion of some or all of the Notes will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could depress the price of our common stock.. We will continue to have the ability to incur debt; if we incur substantial additional debt, these higher levels of debt may affect our ability to pay the principal of and interest on the Notes.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments, some of which may be secured debt. The indenture governing the Notes does not restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or require us to maintain financial ratios or specified levels of net worth or liquidity. If we incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, these higher levels of indebtedness may affect our ability to pay the principal of and interest on the Notes, or any fundamental change purchase price or any cash due upon conversion, and our creditworthiness generally."
