[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, that may cause our actual operating results or financial performance to be materially different from our expectations. If one or more of the events discussed in this report were to occur, actual outcomes could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statements we make in this report or our other filings with the SEC, and our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially adversely affected; furthermore, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our shareholders could lose all or part of their investment.. We cannot predict the impact that modifications of the Affordable Care Act may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. The expansion of health insurance coverage under the Affordable Care Act resulted in an increase in the number of patients using our facilities with either private or public program coverage and a decrease in uninsured and charity care admissions. Although a substantial portion of both our patient volumes and, as result, our revenues has historically been derived from government healthcare programs, reductions to our reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs as a result of the ACA have been partially offset by increased revenues from providing care to previously uninsured individuals.. The President issued an executive order on January 20, 2017 declaring that it is the official policy of his administration to seek the prompt repeal of the ACA and directing the heads of all executive departments and agencies to minimize the. 23. Table of Contents. economic and regulatory burdens of the ACA to the maximum extent permitted by law while the ACA remains in effect. The White House also sent a memorandum to federal agencies directing them to freeze any new or pending regulations. In October 2017, the administration announced that reimbursements to insurance companies for ACA cost-sharing reduction plans offered through the health insurance marketplace would be discontinued. In addition, in December 2017, Congress passed and the President signed a tax reform bill into law that, among other things, eliminates the ACA's individual mandate penalty for not buying health insurance starting in 2019. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that this change will result in four million people losing health insurance coverage in 2019 and 13 million people losing coverage by 2027. We cannot predict if or when further modification of the ACA will occur or what action, if any, Congress might take with respect to eventually repealing and possibly replacing the law. We are also unable to predict the impact of legislative, administrative and regulatory changes, and market reactions to those changes, on our future revenues and operations. However, if the ultimate impact is that significantly fewer individuals have private or public health coverage, we likely will experience decreased volumes, reduced revenues and an increase in uncompensated care, which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. This negative effect will be exacerbated if the ACA's reductions in Medicare reimbursement and reductions in Medicare DSH payments that have already taken effect are not reversed if the law is repealed or if further reductions (including Medicaid DSH reductions scheduled to take effect under the 2018 BBA in FFYs 2020 through 2025) are made.. Further changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs or other government healthcare programs, including reductions in scale and scope, could have an adverse effect on our business.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 20% and 8% of our net patient revenues before provision for doubtful accounts from our Hospital Operations and other segment were related to the Medicare program and various state Medicaid programs, respectively, in each case excluding Medicare and Medicaid managed care programs. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to: statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations concerning patient eligibility requirements, funding levels and the method of calculating payments or reimbursements, among other things; requirements for utilization review; and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease payments from these government programs in the future, as well as affect the cost of providing services to our patients and the timing of payments to our facilities, which could in turn adversely affect our overall business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Any material adverse effects resulting from future reductions in payments from government programs could be exacerbated if we are not able to identify and execute on measures designed to save or control costs or streamline operations, including our recently announced cost-reduction initiatives.. Several states in which we operate face budgetary challenges that have resulted, and likely will continue to result, in reduced Medicaid funding levels to hospitals and other providers. Because most states must operate with balanced budgets, and the Medicaid program is generally a significant portion of a state's budget, states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting future legislation designed to reduce or not increase their Medicaid expenditures. In addition, some states delay issuing Medicaid payments to providers to manage state expenditures. As an alternative means of funding provider payments, many of the states in which we operate have adopted provider fee programs or have received federal government waivers allowing them to test new approaches and demonstration projects to improve care. Continuing pressure on state budgets and other factors could result in future reductions to Medicaid payments, payment delays, changes to Medicaid supplemental payment programs or additional taxes on hospitals.. In general, we are unable to predict the effect of future government healthcare funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payers are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payers is limited, or if we or one or more of our subsidiaries' hospitals are excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid program or any other government healthcare program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our business and financial results could be harmed if we are alleged to have violated existing regulations or if we fail to comply with new or changed regulations.. Our hospitals, outpatient centers and related healthcare businesses are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, licensure, contractual arrangements, conduct of operations, privacy of patient information, ownership of facilities, physician relationships, addition of facilities and services, and reimbursement rates for services. The laws, rules and regulations governing the healthcare industry are extremely complex and, in certain areas, the industry has little or no regulatory or judicial interpretation for guidance. Moreover, under the ACA, the government and its contractors may suspend Medicare and Medicaid payments to providers of services \"pending an investigation of a credible allegation of fraud.\" The potential consequences for violating such laws, rules or regulations include reimbursement of government program payments, the assessment of civil monetary penalties, including treble damages, fines, which could be significant, exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, or criminal sanctions against current or former. 24. Table of Contents. employees, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or cash flows. Even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of law could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock and our business reputation could suffer.. Furthermore, healthcare, as one of the largest industries in the United States, continues to attract much legislative interest and public attention. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local healthcare regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations. Further changes in the regulatory framework negatively affecting healthcare providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are also required to comply with various federal and state labor laws, rules and regulations governing a variety of workplace wage and hour issues. From time to time, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to regulatory proceedings and private litigation concerning our application of such laws, rules and regulations.. If we breach or otherwise fail to comply with our Non-Prosecution Agreement, we could be subject to criminal prosecution, substantial penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, any of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In September 2016, one of our subsidiaries, Tenet HealthSystem Medical, Inc., entered into a Non-Prosecution Agreement with the DOJ's Criminal Division, Fraud Section, and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Northern District of Georgia. The NPA requires, among other things, that we and THSMI (1) fully cooperate with the Offices in any matters relating to the conduct described in the NPA and other conduct under investigation by the Offices at any time during the term of the NPA, (2) retain an independent compliance monitor to assess, oversee and monitor our compliance with the obligations under the NPA, (3) promptly report any evidence or allegations of actual or potential violations of the Anti-kickback Statute, (4) maintain our compliance and ethics program throughout our operations, including those of our subsidiaries, affiliates, agents and joint ventures (to the extent that we manage or control or THSMI manages or controls such joint ventures), and (5) notify the DOJ and undertake certain other obligations specified in the NPA relative to, among other things, any sale, merger or transfer of all or substantially all of our and THSMI's respective business operations or the business operations of our or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including an obligation to include in any contract for sale, merger, transfer or other change in corporate form a provision binding the purchaser to retain the commitment of us or THSMI, or any successor-in-interest thereto, to comply with the NPA obligations except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties to the NPA in connection with a particular transaction. The powers, duties and responsibilities of the independent compliance monitor are broadly defined.. The NPA is scheduled to expire on February 1, 2020 (three years from the date on which the Monitor was retained), but it may be extended or terminated early as described herein and in the NPA. If, during the term of the NPA, THSMI commits any felony under federal law, or if the Company commits any felony related to the Anti-kickback Statute, or if THSMI or the Company fails to cooperate or otherwise fails to fulfill the obligations set forth in the NPA, then THSMI, the Company and our affiliates could be subject to prosecution, exclusion from participation in federal health care programs, and other substantial costs and penalties. The Offices retain sole discretion over determining whether there has been a breach of the NPA and whether to pursue prosecution. The NPA provides that, in the event the DOJ determines that the Company or THSMI has breached the NPA, the DOJ will provide written notice prior to instituting any prosecution of the Company or THSMI resulting from such breach. Following receipt of such notice, the Company and THSMI have the opportunity to respond to the DOJ to explain the nature and circumstances of the breach, as well as the actions taken to address and remediate the situation, which the DOJ shall consider in determining whether to pursue prosecution of the Company, THSMI or its affiliates. Any liability or consequences associated with a failure to comply with the NPA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. The industry trend toward value-based purchasing and alternative payment models may negatively impact our revenues.. Value-based purchasing and alternative payment model initiatives of both governmental and private payers tying financial incentives to quality and efficiency of care will increasingly affect the results of operations of our hospitals and other healthcare facilities, and may negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet expected quality standards. Medicare now requires providers to report certain quality measures in order to receive full reimbursement increases for inpatient and outpatient procedures that were previously awarded automatically. In addition, hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards will receive increased reimbursement payments, and hospitals that have \"excess readmissions\" for specified conditions will receive reduced reimbursement. Furthermore, Medicare no longer pays hospitals additional amounts for the treatment of certain hospital-acquired conditions (\"HACs\"), unless the conditions were present at admission. Hospitals that rank in the worst 25% of all hospitals nationally for HACs in the previous year receive reduced Medicare reimbursements.. 25. Table of Contents. Moreover, the ACA prohibits the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for treating certain provider - preventable conditions.. The ACA also created the CMS Innovation Center to test innovative payment and service delivery models that have the potential to reduce Medicare, Medicaid or Children's Health Insurance Program expenditures while preserving or enhancing the quality of care for beneficiaries. Participation in some of these models is voluntary; however, participation in certain bundled payment arrangements is mandatory for providers located in randomly selected geographic locations. Generally, the mandatory bundled payment models hold hospitals financially accountable for the quality and costs for an entire episode of care for a specific diagnosis or procedure from the date of the hospital admission or inpatient procedure through 90 days post-discharge, including services not provided by the hospital, such as physician, inpatient rehabilitation, skilled nursing and home health services. Under the mandatory models, hospitals are eligible to receive incentive payments or will be subject to payment reductions within certain corridors based on their performance against quality and spending criteria. In 2015, CMS finalized a five-year bundled payment model, called the Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement (\"CJR\") model, which includes hip and knee replacements, as well as other major leg procedures. Twenty of our hospitals currently participate in the CJR model. We cannot predict what effect significant modification or repeal of the ACA as described above will have on the established payment models or the Secretary of HHS' authority to develop new payment models, nor can we predict what impact, if any, these demonstration programs will have on our inpatient volumes, net revenues or cash flows.. There is also a trend among private payers toward value-based purchasing and alternative payment models for healthcare services. Many large commercial payers expect hospitals to report quality data, and several of these payers will not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. We expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts.. We are unable at this time to predict how the industry trend toward value-based purchasing and alternative payment models will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues, particularly if we are unable to meet the quality and cost standards established by both governmental and private payers.. If we are unable to enter into and maintain managed care contractual arrangements on acceptable terms, if we experience material reductions in the contracted rates we receive from managed care payers or if we have difficulty collecting from managed care payers, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We currently have thousands of managed care contracts with various HMOs and PPOs. The amount of our managed care net patient revenues, including Medicare and Medicaid managed care programs, from our Hospital Operations and other segment during the year ended December 31, 2017 was approximately $10.463 billion, which represented approximately 62% of our total net patient revenues before provision for doubtful accounts. Approximately 64% of our managed care net patient revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 was derived from our top ten managed care payers. In the year ended December 31, 2017, our commercial managed care net inpatient revenue per admission from our acute care hospitals was approximately 82% higher than our aggregate yield on a per admission basis from government payers, including managed Medicare and Medicaid insurance plans. In addition, at December 31, 2017, approximately 62% of our net accounts receivable for our Hospital Operations and other segment were due from managed care payers.. Our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with HMOs, insurers offering preferred provider arrangements and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. Furthermore, we may experience a short- or long-term adverse effect on our net operating revenues if we cannot replace or otherwise mitigate the impact of expired contracts with national payers. In addition, private payers are increasingly attempting to control healthcare costs through direct contracting with hospitals to provide services on a discounted basis, increased utilization reviews and greater enrollment in managed care programs, such as HMOs and PPOs. The trend toward consolidation among private managed care payers tends to increase their bargaining power over prices and fee structures. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to renew existing managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on competitive terms. Other healthcare companies, including some with greater financial resources, greater geographic coverage or a wider range of services, may compete with us for these opportunities. For example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. Any material reductions in the contracted rates we receive for our services or any significant difficulties in collecting receivables from managed care payers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Any material adverse effects resulting from future reductions in payments from private payers could be exacerbated if we are not able to identify and execute on measures designed to save or control costs or streamline operations, including our recently announced cost-reduction initiatives, as described below.. 26. Table of Contents. Our failure to effectively execute our cost-reduction initiatives may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future financial performance and level of profitability is dependent, in part, on various cost-reduction initiatives. We may encounter challenges in executing these cost-reduction initiatives and not achieve the intended cost savings. In addition, we may face wrongful termination, discrimination or other legal claims from employees affected by any workforce reductions, and we may incur substantial costs defending against such claims, regardless of their merits. Moreover, such claims may significantly increase our severance costs. Workforce reductions in connection with our cost-reduction initiatives may result in the loss of numerous long-term employees, the loss of institutional knowledge and expertise, the reallocation of certain job responsibilities and the disruption of business continuity, all of which could negatively affect operational efficiencies and increase our operating expenses in the short term. Our failure to effectively execute our cost-reduction initiatives may lead to significant volatility, and a decline, in the price of our common stock. We cannot guarantee that our cost-reduction initiatives will be successful, and we may need to take additional steps in the future to achieve our profitability goals.. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in divesting assets in non-core markets or that we will complete the process we have initiated for the potential sale of Conifer.. We are continuing our strategy of selling assets in non-core markets. We have announced definitive agreements to sell, transfer or otherwise divest our interests in eight hospitals we owned or operated at December 31, 2017, and we have since completed the sale of two of the eight hospitals. We cannot provide any assurances that recent, planned or future divestitures will achieve their business goals or the cost and service synergies we expect. We also cannot predict the outcome of the process we have initiated for the potential sale of Conifer. With respect to all proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may fail to obtain applicable regulatory approvals for such divestitures, including any approval that may be required under our NPA. Moreover, we may encounter difficulties in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the receipt of anticipated proceeds necessary for us to complete our planned strategic objectives. In addition, our divestiture activities have required, and may in the future require, us to retain significant pre-closing liabilities, recognize impairment charges (as discussed below) or agree to contractual restrictions that limit our ability to reenter the applicable market, which may be material. Furthermore, our divestiture activities, including the potential sale of Conifer, may present financial and operational risks, including (1) the diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, (2) adverse effects (including a deterioration in the related asset or business) from the announcement of the planned or potential divesture, and (3) the challenges associated with separating personnel and financial and other systems.. Trends affecting our actual or anticipated results may require us to record charges that may negatively impact our results of operations.. As a result of factors that have negatively affected our industry generally and our business specifically, we have been required to record various charges in our results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded impairment charges of (1) $232 million in connection with the sale of our Philadelphia-area hospitals, physician practices and related assets, (2) $73 million in connection with the planned divestiture of three of our hospitals in the Chicago-area, as well as other operations affiliated with the hospitals, and (3) $59 million in connection with the planned divestiture of our nine Aspen facilities in the United Kingdom. Our impairment tests presume stable, improving or, in some cases, declining operating results in our hospitals, which are based on programs and initiatives being implemented that are designed to achieve the hospitals' most recent projections. If these projections are not met, or negative trends occur that impact our future outlook, future impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill may occur, and we may incur additional restructuring charges, which could be material. Future restructuring of our operating structure that changes our goodwill reporting units could also result in future impairments of our goodwill. Any such charges could negatively impact our results of operations.. Our level of indebtedness could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness.. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $14.791 billion of total long-term debt, as well as approximately $102 million in standby letters of credit outstanding in the aggregate, under our senior secured revolving credit facility (as amended, \"Credit Agreement\") and our letter of credit facility agreement (as amended, \"LC Facility\"). Our Credit Agreement is collateralized by patient accounts receivable of substantially all of our domestic wholly owned acute care and specialty hospitals, and our LC Facility is guaranteed and secured by a first priority pledge of the capital stock and other ownership interests of certain of our hospital subsidiaries on an equal ranking basis with our existing senior secured notes. From time to. 27. Table of Contents. time, we expect to engage in additional capital market, bank credit and other financing activities, depending on our needs and financing alternatives available at that time.. The interest expense associated with our indebtedness offsets a substantial portion of our operating income. During 2017, our interest expense was $1.028 billion and represented approximately 92% of our $1.113 billion of operating income. As a result, relatively small percentage changes in our operating income can result in a relatively large percentage change in our net income and earnings per share, both positively and negatively. In addition:. • Our substantial indebtedness may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.. • We may be more vulnerable in the event of a deterioration in our business, in the healthcare industry or in the economy generally, or if federal or state governments substantially limit or reduce reimbursement under the Medicare or Medicaid programs.. • Our debt service obligations reduce the amount of funds available for our operations, capital expenditures and corporate development activities, and may make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations.. • Our substantial indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future capital expenditures, working capital, acquisitions or other needs.. • Our significant indebtedness may result in the market value of our stock being more volatile, potentially resulting in larger investment gains or losses for our shareholders, than the market value of the common stock of other companies that have a relatively smaller amount of indebtedness.. • Most of our outstanding debt is either subject to early prepayment penalties, such as \"make-whole premiums,\" or is not currently callable. As a result, it may be costly to pursue debt repayment as a deleveraging strategy.. Furthermore, as described below, our Credit Agreement, LC Facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain, and any future debt obligations may contain, covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt and sell assets.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors that may be beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. In addition, our ability to meet our debt service obligations is dependent upon the operating results of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us. We hold most of our assets at, and conduct substantially all of our operations through, direct and indirect subsidiaries. Moreover, we are dependent on dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations, including payment on our outstanding debt. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will depend on their operating results and will be subject to applicable laws and restrictions contained in agreements governing the debt of such subsidiaries. Our less than wholly owned subsidiaries may also be subject to restrictions on their ability to distribute cash to us in their financing or other agreements and, as a result, we may not be able to access their cash flows to service their respective debt obligations.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, including those required for operating our existing hospitals, for integrating our historical acquisitions or for future corporate development activities. We also may be forced to sell assets or operations, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including our Credit Agreement, LC Facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes.. 28. Table of Contents. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may adversely affect us.. Our Credit Agreement, LC Facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to:. • incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • incur liens;. • make certain investments;. • provide subsidiary guarantees;. • consummate asset sales;. • redeem debt that is subordinated in right of payment to outstanding indebtedness;. • enter into sale and lease-back transactions;. • enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. These restrictions are subject to a number of important exceptions and qualifications.. In addition, so long as any obligation or commitment is outstanding under our Credit Agreement and LC Facility, the terms of such facilities require us to maintain a financial ratio relating to our ability to satisfy certain fixed expenses, including interest payments. Our ability to meet these restrictive covenants and financial ratio may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those tests. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand economic downturns in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, a breach of any of these covenants could cause an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could require us to repay the indebtedness immediately. Under these conditions, we are not certain whether we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make accelerated payments.. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may be able to incur substantially more debt or otherwise increase our leverage. This could further exacerbate the risks described above.. We have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our Credit Agreement, LC Facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. We may decide to incur additional secured or unsecured debt in the future to finance our operations and any judgments or settlements or for other business purposes. Similarly, if we continue to sell assets, including the potential sale of Conifer, and do not use the proceeds to repay debt, this could further increase our leverage ratios.. Our Credit Agreement provides for revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1 billion, with a $300 million subfacility for standby letters of credit. Based on our eligible receivables, approximately $998 million was available for borrowing under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2017. Our LC Facility provides for the issuance of standby and documentary letters of credit in an aggregate principal amount of up to $180 million (subject to increase to up to $200 million). At December 31, 2017, we had no cash borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement, and we had approximately $102 million of standby letters of credit outstanding in the aggregate under the Credit Facility and the LC Facility. If new indebtedness is added or leverage increases, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. We could be subject to substantial uninsured liabilities or increased insurance costs as a result of significant legal actions.. We are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, antitrust and other class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. Some of these actions may involve large demands, as well as substantial defense costs. Even in states that have imposed caps on damages, litigants are seeking recoveries under new theories of liability that might not be subject to such caps. Our professional and general liability insurance does not cover all claims against us, and it may not. 29. Table of Contents. continue to be available at a reasonable cost for us to maintain at adequate levels, as the healthcare industry has seen significant increases in the cost of such insurance due to increased litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of current or future legal actions against us or the effect that judgments or settlements in such matters may have on us or on our insurance costs. Additionally, all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. If the aggregate limit of any of our professional and general liability policies is exhausted, in whole or in part, it could deplete or reduce the limits available to pay any other material claims applicable to that policy period. Any losses not covered by or in excess of the amounts maintained under insurance policies will be funded from our working capital. Furthermore, one or more of our insurance carriers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill its or their obligations to defend, pay or reimburse us when those obligations become due. In that case or if payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our hospitals, outpatient centers and other healthcare businesses operate in competitive environments, and competition in our markets can adversely affect patient volumes.. The healthcare business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients has intensified in recent years. Generally, other hospitals and outpatient centers in the local communities we serve provide services similar to those we offer, and, in some cases, competing facilities (1) are more established or newer than ours, (2) may offer a broader array of services to patients and physicians than ours, and (3) may have larger or more specialized medical staffs to admit and refer patients, among other things. Furthermore, healthcare consumers are now able to access hospital performance data on quality measures and patient satisfaction, as well as standard charges for services, to compare competing providers; if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys, or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, we may attract fewer patients. Additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes.. In the future, we expect to encounter increased competition from system-affiliated hospitals and healthcare companies, as well as health insurers and private equity companies seeking to acquire providers, in specific geographic markets. We also face competition from specialty hospitals (some of which are physician-owned) and unaffiliated freestanding outpatient centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. In recent years, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers, emergency departments, urgent care centers and diagnostic imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. Furthermore, some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by government agencies or not-for-profit organizations supported by endowments and charitable contributions and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. If our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than we are, we may experience an overall decline in patient volumes.. Our USPI joint venture and our hospital-based joint ventures depend on existing relationships with key healthcare system partners. If we are not able to maintain historical relationships with these healthcare systems, or enter into new relationships, we may be unable to implement our business strategies successfully.. Our USPI joint venture and our hospital-based joint ventures depend in part on the efforts, reputations and success of healthcare system partners and the strength of our relationships with those healthcare systems. Our joint ventures could be adversely affected by any damage to those healthcare systems' reputations or to our relationships with them. In addition, damage to our business reputation could negatively impact the willingness of healthcare systems to enter into relationships with us or our USPI joint venture. Moreover, in many cases, our joint venture agreements are structured to comply with current revenue rulings published by the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), as well as case law, relevant to joint ventures between for-profit and not-for-profit healthcare entities. Material changes in these authorities could adversely affect our relationships with healthcare system partners. If we are unable to maintain existing arrangements on favorable terms or enter into relationships with additional healthcare system partners, we may be unable to implement our business strategies for our joint ventures successfully.. The put/call arrangements associated with our USPI joint venture, if settled in cash, will require us to utilize our cash flow or incur additional indebtedness to satisfy the payment obligations in respect of such arrangements.. As previously disclosed, as part of the formation of our USPI joint venture in 2015, we entered into a put/call agreement (the \"Put/Call Agreement\") with respect to the equity interests in the joint venture held by our joint venture partners. In January 2016, Welsh Carson, on behalf of our joint venture partners, delivered a put notice for the minimum number of shares they were required to put to us in 2016 according to the Put/Call Agreement. In April 2016, we paid approximately $127 million to purchase those shares, which increased our ownership interest in the USPI joint venture to. 30. Table of Contents. approximately 56.3%. On May 1, 2017, we amended and restated the Put/Call Agreement to provide for, among other things, the acceleration of our acquisition of certain shares of our USPI joint venture. Under the terms of the amendment, we agreed to pay Welsh Carson, on or before July 3, 2017, approximately $711 million to buy 23.7% of our USPI joint venture, which amount is subject to adjustment for actual 2017 financial results in accordance with the terms of the Put/Call Agreement. On July 3, 2017, we paid approximately $716 million for the purchase of these shares, which increased our ownership interest in the USPI joint venture to 80.0%, as well as the final adjustment to the 2016 purchase price.. The amended and restated Put/Call Agreement also provides that the remaining 15% ownership interest in our USPI joint venture held by our Welsh Carson joint venture partners is subject to put options in equal shares in each of 2018 and 2019. In January 2018, Welsh Carson, on behalf of our joint venture partners, delivered a put notice for the number of shares that represent a 7.5% ownership interest in our USPI joint venture in accordance with the amended and restated Put/Call Agreement. The parties are in discussions regarding the calculation of the estimated purchase price relating to the exercise of the 2018 put option, which price is based on an agreed-upon estimate of 2018 financial results and is subject to a true-up following the finalization of actual 2018 financial results. We expect that the estimated payment in 2018 will be between $285 million and $295 million, prior to any true-up payments related to actual financial results in 2017 or 2018. In the event our Welsh Carson joint venture partners do not exercise their 2019 put option, we will have the option, but not the obligation, to buy the remaining 7.5% of our USPI joint venture from them in 2019. In connection with the aforementioned put and call options, we have the ability to choose whether to settle the purchase price in cash or shares of our common stock.. We have also entered into a separate put/call agreement (the \"Baylor Put/Call Agreement\") with Baylor that contains put and call options with respect to the 5% ownership interest in the USPI joint venture held by Baylor. Each year starting in 2021, Baylor may put up to 33.3% of their total shares in the USPI joint venture held as of January 1, 2017. In each year that Baylor does not put the full 33.3% of the USPI joint venture's shares allowable, we may call the difference between the number of shares Baylor put and the maximum number of shares they could have put that year. In addition, the Baylor Put/Call Agreement contains a call option pursuant to which we have the ability to acquire all of Baylor's ownership interest by 2024. We have the ability to choose whether to settle the purchase price for the Baylor put/call in cash or shares of our common stock.. The put and call arrangements described above, to the extent settled in cash, may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to satisfy our payment obligations in respect of such arrangements, which may reduce the amount of funds available for our operations, capital expenditures and corporate development activities. Similarly, we may be required to incur additional indebtedness to satisfy our payment obligations in respect of such arrangements, which could have important consequences to our business and operations, as described more fully above.. Our existing joint ventures may limit our flexibility with respect to such jointly owned investments and could, thereby, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to sell the underlying assets or ownership interests in the joint ventures.. We have invested in a number of joint ventures with other entities when circumstances warranted the use of these structures, and we may form additional joint ventures in the future. These joint ventures may not be profitable or may not achieve the profitability that justifies the investments made. Furthermore, the nature of a joint venture requires us to consult with and share certain decision-making powers with unaffiliated third parties, some of which may be not-for-profit healthcare systems. If our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate according to its business or strategic plans. In that case, our results could be adversely affected or we may be required to increase our level of financial commitment to the joint venture. Moreover, differences in economic or business interests or goals among joint venture participants could result in delayed decisions, failures to agree on major issues and even litigation. If these differences cause the joint ventures to deviate from their business or strategic plans, or if our joint venture partners take actions contrary to our policies, objectives or the best interests of the joint venture, our results could be adversely affected. In addition, our relationships with not-for-profit healthcare systems and the joint venture agreements that govern these relationships are intended to be structured to comply with current IRS revenue rulings, as well as case law relevant to joint ventures between for-profit and not-for-profit healthcare entities. Material changes in these authorities could adversely affect our relationships with not-for-profit healthcare systems and related joint venture arrangements.. Our participation in joint ventures is also subject to the risks that:. • We could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes.. • We may not be able to maintain good relationships with our joint venture partners (including healthcare systems), which could limit our future growth potential and could have an adverse effect our business strategies.. 31. Table of Contents. • Our joint venture partners could have investment or operational goals that are not consistent with our corporate-wide objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for investments or future growth opportunities.. • Our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their other obligations as joint venture partners, which may require us to infuse our own capital into any such venture on behalf of the related joint venture partner or partners despite other competing uses for such capital.. • Many of our existing joint ventures require that one of our wholly owned affiliates provide a working capital line of credit to the joint venture, which could require us to allocate substantial financial resources to the joint venture potentially impacting our ability to fund our other short-term obligations.. • Some of our existing joint ventures require mandatory capital expenditures for the benefit of the applicable joint venture, which could limit our ability to expend funds on other corporate opportunities.. • Our joint venture partners may have exit rights that would require us to purchase their interests upon the occurrence of certain events or the passage of certain time periods, which could impact our financial condition by requiring us to incur additional indebtedness in order to complete such transactions or, alternatively, in some cases we may have the option to issue shares of our common stock to our joint venture partners to satisfy such obligations, which would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders.. • Our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues.. • Any sale or other disposition of our interest in a joint venture or underlying assets of the joint venture may require consents from our joint venture partners, which we may not be able to obtain.. • Certain corporate-wide or strategic transactions may also trigger other contractual rights held by a joint venture partner (including termination or liquidation rights) depending on how the transaction is structured, which could impact our ability to complete such transactions.. • Our joint venture arrangements that involve financial and ownership relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals or other healthcare facilities are subject to greater regulatory scrutiny and may not quality for safe harbor protection from the Anti-kickback Statute.. Conifer operates in a highly competitive industry, and its current or future competitors may be able to compete more effectively than Conifer does, which could have a material adverse effect on Conifer's margins, growth rate and market share.. We are continuing to market and expand Conifer's revenue cycle management, patient communications and engagement services, and value-based care solutions businesses. However, there can be no assurance that Conifer will be successful in generating new client relationships, including with respect to hospitals we or Conifer's other clients sell, as the respective buyers may not continue to use Conifer's services or, if they do, they may not do so under the same contractual terms. The market for Conifer's solutions is highly competitive, and we expect competition may intensify in the future. Conifer faces competition from existing participants and new entrants to the revenue cycle management market, as well as from the staffs of hospitals and other healthcare providers who handle these processes internally. In addition, electronic medical record software vendors may expand into services offerings that compete with Conifer. To be successful, Conifer must respond more quickly and effectively than its competitors to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, regulations and client requirements. Moreover, existing or new competitors may introduce technologies or services that render Conifer's technologies or services obsolete or less marketable. Even if Conifer's technologies and services are more effective than the offerings of its competitors, current or potential clients might prefer competitive technologies or services to Conifer's technologies and services. Furthermore, increased competition has resulted and may continue to result in pricing pressures, which could negatively impact Conifer's margins, growth rate or market share.. 32. Table of Contents. The failure to comply with consumer protection laws could subject Conifer and its subsidiaries to fines and other liabilities, as well as harm Conifer's business and reputation.. Conifer and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous federal, state and local consumer protection laws governing such topics as privacy, finance, debt collection and credit reporting. Regulations governing debt collection are subject to changing interpretations that may be inconsistent among different jurisdictions. In addition, a regulatory determination made by, or a settlement or consent decree entered into with, one regulatory agency, such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, may not be binding upon, or preclude, investigations or regulatory actions by state or local agencies. Conifer's failure to comply with consumer financial, debt collection and credit reporting requirements could result in, among other things, the issuance of cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief), the imposition of fines or refunds, and other civil and criminal penalties, some of which could be significant in the case of knowing or reckless violations. In addition, Conifer's failure to comply with the statutes and regulations applicable to it could result in reduced demand for its services, invalidate all or portions of some of Conifer's services agreements with its clients, give clients the right to terminate Conifer's services agreements with them or give rise to contractual liabilities, among other things, any of which could have an adverse effect on Conifer's business. Furthermore, if Conifer or its subsidiaries become subject to fines or other penalties, it could harm Conifer's reputation, thereby making it more difficult for Conifer to retain existing clients or attract new clients.. Economic factors, consumer behavior and other dynamics have affected, and may continue to impact, our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We believe broad economic factors (including high unemployment rates in some of the markets our facilities serve), instability in consumer spending, uncertainty regarding the future of the Affordable Care Act, and the continued shift of additional financial responsibility to insured patients through higher co-pays, deductibles and premium contributions, among other dynamics, have affected our service mix, revenue mix and volumes, as well as our ability to collect outstanding receivables. The United States economy remains unpredictable. If industry trends (including reductions in commercial managed care enrollment and patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and non-emergency healthcare procedures) worsen or if general economic conditions deteriorate, we may not be able to sustain future profitability, and our liquidity and ability to repay our outstanding debt may be harmed.. It is essential to our ongoing business that we attract an appropriate number of quality physicians in the specialties required to support our services and that we maintain good relations with those physicians.. The success of our business depends in significant part on the number, quality, specialties, and admitting and scheduling practices of the licensed physicians who have been admitted to the medical staffs of our hospitals and who affiliate with us and use our facilities as an extension of their practices. Physicians are often not employees of the hospitals or surgery centers at which they practice. Members of the medical staffs of our hospitals also often serve on the medical staffs of facilities we do not operate, and they are free to terminate their association with our hospitals or admit their patients to competing facilities at any time. In addition, although physicians who own interests in our facilities are generally subject to agreements restricting them from owning an interest in competitive facilities, we may not learn of, or be unsuccessful in preventing, our physician partners from acquiring interests in competitive facilities.. We expect to encounter increased competition from health insurers and private equity companies seeking to acquire providers in the markets where we operate physician practices and, where permitted by law, employ physicians. In some of our markets, physician recruitment and retention are affected by a shortage of physicians in certain specialties and the difficulties that physicians can experience in obtaining affordable malpractice insurance or finding insurers willing to provide such insurance. Furthermore, our ability to recruit and employ physicians is closely regulated. For example, the types, amount and duration of compensation and assistance we can provide to recruited physicians are limited by the Stark law, the Anti-kickback Statute, state anti-kickback statutes and related regulations. All arrangements with physicians must also be fair market value and commercially reasonable. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of quality physicians by providing adequate support personnel, technologically advanced equipment, and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians and their patients, physicians may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions and outpatient visits may decrease and our operating performance may decline.. Our labor costs could be adversely affected by competition for staffing, the shortage of experienced nurses and labor union activity.. The operations of our facilities are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, including nurses, therapists, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our employed physicians. We. 33. Table of Contents. compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining employees, and, like others in the healthcare industry, we continue to experience a shortage of critical-care nurses in certain disciplines and geographic areas. As a result, from time to time, we may be required to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain experienced employees, make greater investments in education and training for newly licensed medical support personnel, or hire more expensive temporary or contract employees. Furthermore, state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios in California affect not only our labor costs, but, if we are unable to hire the necessary number of experienced nurses to meet the required ratios, they may also cause us to limit volumes, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. In general, our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, experienced nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. At December 31, 2017, approximately 24% of the employees in our Hospital Operations and other segment were represented by labor unions. There were no unionized employees in our Ambulatory Care segment, and less than 1% of Conifer's employees belong to a union. Unionized employees - primarily registered nurses and service, technical and maintenance workers - are located at 35 of our hospitals, the majority of which are in California, Florida and Michigan. We currently have six expired contracts covering approximately 14% of our unionized employees and are or will be negotiating renewals under extension agreements. We are also negotiating (or will soon negotiate) six first contracts at four hospitals where employees recently selected union representation; these contracts cover approximately 5% of our unionized employees. At this time, we are unable to predict the outcome of the negotiations, but increases in salaries, wages and benefits could result from these agreements. Furthermore, there is a possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, which could increase our labor costs and have an adverse effect on our volumes and net operating revenues. Organizing activities by labor unions could increase our level of union representation in future periods; to the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially.. Conifer's future success also depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel. Competition for the caliber and number of employees we require at Conifer is intense. We may face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training Conifer's employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our Conifer employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring, integrating and training their replacements, and the quality of Conifer's services and its ability to serve its clients could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on that segment of our business.. The utilization of our tax losses could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code.. At December 31, 2017, we had federal net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryforwards of approximately $1.6 billion pre-tax available to offset future taxable income. These NOL carryforwards will expire in the years 2025 to 2034. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of a company's taxable income that may be offset by the NOL carryforwards if it experiences an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382 of the Code. An ownership change occurs when a company's \"five-percent shareholders\" (as defined in Section 382 of the Code) collectively increase their ownership in the company by more than 50 percentage points (by value) over a rolling three-year period. (This is different from a change in beneficial ownership under applicable securities laws.) These ownership changes include purchases of common stock under share repurchase programs, a company's offering of its stock, the purchase or sale of company stock by five-percent shareholders, or the issuance or exercise of rights to acquire company stock. While we expect to be able to realize our total NOL carryforwards prior to their expiration, if an ownership change occurs, our ability to use the NOL carryforwards to offset future taxable income will be subject to an annual limitation and will depend on the amount of taxable income we generate in future periods. There is no assurance that we will be able to fully utilize the NOL carryforwards. Furthermore, we could be required to record a valuation allowance related to the amount of the NOL carryforwards that may not be realized, which could adversely impact our results of operations.. On August 31, 2017, we entered into a rights agreement as a measure intended to deter the above-referenced ownership changes in order to preserve the Company's NOL carryforwards. The rights agreement is scheduled to expire following the conclusion of the Company's 2018 annual meeting of stockholders. Following the 2018 annual meeting, the board intends to further evaluate the ongoing need for a rights agreement based on status of risk to the Company's NOLs. The rights agreement may not prevent an ownership change, however. In addition, while the rights agreement is in effect, it could discourage or prevent a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or accumulations of substantial blocks of shares for which some shareholders might receive a premium above market value. It could also adversely affect the liquidity of the market for the Company's common stock.. 34. Table of Contents. Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, catastrophic events and other disruptions affecting our information technology and related systems.. Information technology is a critical component of the day-to-day operation of our business. We rely on our information technology to process, transmit and store sensitive and confidential data, including protected health information, personally identifiable information, and our proprietary and confidential business performance data. We utilize electronic health records and other information technology in connection with all of our operations, including our billing and supply chain and labor management operations. Our systems, in turn, interface with and rely on third-party systems. Although we monitor and routinely test our security systems and processes and have a diversified data network that provides redundancies as well as other measures designed to protect the security and availability of the data we process, transmit and store, our information technology and infrastructure have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses, attacks by hackers, or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance. While we are not aware of having experienced a material breach of our systems, the preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of such incidents and protect our information technology may not be sufficient in the future. As cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, we may not be able to anticipate certain attack methods in order to implement effective protective measures, and we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify and strengthen our security measures, investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities in our information systems and infrastructure, or invest in new technology designed to mitigate security risks. Third parties to whom we outsource certain of our functions, or with whom our systems interface and who may, in some instances, store our sensitive and confidential data, are also subject to the risks outlined above and may not have or use controls effective to protect such information. A breach or attack affecting any of these third parties could harm our business. Further, successful cyber-attacks at other healthcare services companies, whether or not we are impacted, could lead to a general loss of consumer confidence in our industry that could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or of the healthcare industry in general, which could result in reduced use of our services. Though we have insurance against some cyber-risks and attacks, it may not be sufficient to offset the impact of a material loss event.. Our networks and technology systems are also subject to disruption due to events such as a major earthquake, fire, hurricane, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event.. Any breach or system interruption of our information systems or of third parties with access to our sensitive and confidential data could result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse or loss of such data, could negatively impact our ability to conduct normal business operations (including the collection of revenues), and could result in potential liability under privacy, security, consumer protection or other applicable laws, regulatory penalties, negative publicity and damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Our business and financial results could be harmed by a national or localized outbreak of a highly contagious or epidemic disease.. If an outbreak of an infectious disease, such as the Zika virus or the Ebola virus, were to occur nationally or in one of the regions our hospitals serve, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. The treatment of a highly contagious disease at one of our facilities may result in a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients. In addition, unaffected individuals may decide to defer elective procedures or otherwise avoid medical treatment, resulting in reduced patient volumes and operating revenues. Furthermore, we cannot predict the costs associated with the potential treatment of an infectious disease outbreak by our hospitals or preparation for such treatment.. When we acquire new assets or businesses, we become subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We have completed a number of acquisitions in recent years, and we may pursue similar transactions in the future. With respect to planned or future transactions, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate transactions on terms that are favorable to us, or achieve synergies or other benefits in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, companies or operations acquired may not be profitable or may not achieve the profitability that justifies the investments made. In addition, we may face significant challenges in integrating personnel and financial and other systems. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities, and increased operating expenses, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition."
