[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating the Company's business and future prospects.  The risk factors described below are not exhaustive and you are encouraged to perform your own investigation with respect to the Company and its business.  You should also read the other information included in this Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes.. The Company's indebtedness, global recessions, or disruption in the domestic and global financial markets could have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had no outstanding principal amount of indebtedness under its credit facility with Prosperity Bank.  Although the Company had no bank indebtedness, should it experience an increased level of indebtedness, coupled with domestic and global economic conditions, the associated volatility of energy prices, and the levels of disruption and continuing relative illiquidity in the credit markets may, if continued for an extended period, have several important and adverse consequences on the Company's business and operations.  For example, any one or more of these factors could (i) make it difficult for the Company to service or refinance its existing indebtedness; (ii) increase the Company's vulnerability to additional adverse changes in economic and industry conditions; (iii) require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion or all of its cash flow from operations and proceeds of any debt or equity issuances or asset sales to pay or provide for its indebtedness; (iv) limit the Company's ability to respond to changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; (v) place the Company at a disadvantage to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; or (vi) limit the Company's ability to borrow money or raise equity to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, investments, general corporate activity or other financing needs.  The Company continues to closely monitor the the global financial and credit markets, as well as the significant volatility in the market prices for oil and natural gas.  As these events unfold, the Company will continue to evaluate and respond to any impact on Company operations.  The Company has and will continue to adjust its drilling plans and capital expenditures as necessary.  However, external financing in the capital markets may not be readily available, and without adequate capital resources, the Company's drilling and other activities may be limited and the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.  Additionally, in light of the credit markets and the volatility in pricing for oil and natural gas, the Company's ability to enter into future beneficial relationships with third parties for exploration and production activities may be limited, and as a result, may have an adverse effect on current operational strategy and related business initiatives.. 11. Table of Contents. Agreements Governing the Company's Indebtedness may Limit the Company's Ability to Execute Capital Spending or to Respond to Other Initiatives or Opportunities as they May Arise.. Because the availability of borrowings by the Company under the terms of the Company's amended and restated credit facility with Prosperity Bank is subject to an upper limit of the borrowing base as determined by the lender's calculated estimated future cash flows from the Company's oil and natural gas reserves, the Company expects any decline in the pricing for these commodities, if continued for any extended period, would very likely result in a reduction in the Company's borrowing base.  A reduction in the Company's borrowing base could be significant and as a result, would not only reduce the capital available to the Company but may also require repayment of principal to the lender under the terms of the facility. Additionally, the terms of the Company's amended and restated credit facility with Prosperity Bank restrict the Company's ability to incur additional debt.  The credit facility contains covenants and other restrictions customary for oil and gas borrowing base credit facilities, including limitations on debt, liens, and dividends, voluntary redemptions of debt, investments, and asset sales.  In addition, the credit facility requires that the Company maintain compliance with certain financial tests and financial covenants.  If future debt financing is not available to the Company when required as a result of limited access to the credit markets or otherwise, or is not available on acceptable terms, the Company may be unable to invest needed capital for drilling and exploration activities, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or refinance maturing debt.  In addition, the Company may be forced to sell some of the Company's assets on an untimely basis or under unfavorable terms.  Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results and financial condition.. The Company's Borrowing Base under its Credit Facility May be Reduced by the Lender.. The borrowing base under the Company's revolving credit facility will be determined from time to time by the lender, consistent with its customary natural gas and crude oil lending practices.   Reductions in estimates of the Company's natural gas and crude oil reserves could result in a reduction in the Company's borrowing base, which would reduce the amount of financial resources available under the Company's revolving credit facility to meet its capital requirements. Such a reduction could be the result of lower commodity prices or production, inability to drill or unfavorable drilling results, changes in natural gas and crude oil reserve engineering, the lender's inability to agree to an adequate borrowing base or adverse changes in the lender's practices regarding estimation of reserves.  If either cash flow from operations or the Company's borrowing base decreases for any reason, the Company's ability to undertake exploration and development activities could be adversely affected.. As a result, the Company's ability to replace production may be limited.  In addition, these adverse conditions could lead to non-compliance with certain credit facility covenants, ultimately causing the Company to default under its revolving credit facility.. The Company's Credit Facility is Subject to Variable Rates of Interest, Which Could Negatively Impact the Company.. Borrowings under the Company's credit facility with Prosperity Bank are at variable rates of interest and expose the Company to interest rate risk.  If interest rates increase, the Company's debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and the Company's income and cash flows would decrease.  The Company's credit facility agreement contains certain financial covenants based on the Company's performance.  If the Company's financial performance results in any of these covenants being violated, Prosperity Bank may choose to require repayment of the outstanding borrowings sooner than currently required by the agreement.. Declines in Oil or Gas Prices Have and Will Materially Adversely Affect the Company's Revenues.. The Company's financial condition and results of operations depend in large part upon the prices obtainable for the Company's oil and natural gas production and the costs of finding, acquiring, developing and producing reserves.  As seen in recent years, prices for oil and natural gas are subject to extreme fluctuations in response to changes in supply, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the Company's control.  These factors include worldwide political instability (especially in the Middle East and other oil producing regions), the foreign supply of oil and gas, the price of foreign imports, the level of drilling activity, the level of consumer product demand, government regulations and taxes, the price and availability of alternative fuels, speculating activities in the commodities markets, and the overall economic environment.  The Company's operations are substantially adversely impacted as oil prices decline.  Lower prices dramatically affect the Company's revenues from its drilling operations.  Further, drilling of new wells, development of the Company's leases and acquisitions of new properties are also adversely affected and limited.   As a result, the Company's potential revenues from operations as well as the Company's proved reserves may substantially decrease from levels achieved during the period when oil prices were much higher.  There can be no assurances as to the future prices of oil or gas.  A substantial or extended decline in oil or gas prices would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations, quantities of oil and gas that may be economically produced, and access to capital.  Oil and natural gas prices have historically been and are likely to continue to be volatile.. 12. Table of Contents. This volatility makes it difficult to estimate with precision the value of producing properties in acquisitions and to budget and project the return on exploration and development projects involving the Company's oil and gas properties.  In addition, unusually volatile prices often disrupt the market for oil and gas properties, as buyers and sellers have more difficulty agreeing on the purchase price of properties.. Risk in Rates of Oil and Gas Production, Development Expenditures, and Cash Flows May Have a Substantial Impact on the Company's Finances.. Projecting the effects of commodity prices on production, and timing of development expenditures include many factors beyond the Company's control.  The future estimates of net cash flows from the Company's proved and other reserves and their present value are based upon various assumptions about future production levels, prices, and costs that may prove to be incorrect over time.  Any significant variance from assumptions could result in the actual future net cash flows being materially different from the estimates, which would have a significant impact on the Company's financial position.. The Company Has a History of Significant Losses.. During the early stages of the development of its oil and gas business, the Company had a history of significant losses from operations, in particular its development of the Swan Creek Field and the Company's pipeline assets.  In addition, the Company has recorded an impairment of its oil and gas properties during 2008, 2015, and 2016, impairments of its pipeline assets during 2010 and 2012, and an impairment of its methane facility in 2014.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company has an accumulated deficit of $53.1 million.  The Company recorded net losses of $2.0 million in 2009, $1.7 million in 2010, $0.1 million in 2012, $0.8 million in 2014, $24.7 million in 2015, $4.2 million in 2016, and $0.6 million in 2017.  In the event the Company experiences losses in the future, those losses may curtail the Company's development and operating activities.. The Company's Oil and Gas Operations Involve Substantial Cost and are Subject to Various Economic Risks.. The Company's oil and gas operations are subject to the economic risks typically associated with exploration, development, and production activities, including the necessity of making significant expenditures to locate or acquire new producing properties or to drill exploratory and developmental wells.  In conducting exploration and development activities, the presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, miscalculations, and accidents may cause the Company's exploration, development, and production activities to be unsuccessful.  This could result in a total loss of the Company's investment in such well(s) or property.  In addition, the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain.. The Company's Failure to Find or Acquire Additional Reserves Will Result in the Decline of the Company's Reserves Materially From Their Current Levels.. The rate of production from the Company's Kansas oil properties generally declines as reserves are depleted.  Except to the extent that the Company either acquires additional properties containing proved reserves, conducts successful exploration and development drilling, or successfully applies new technologies or identifies additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, the Company's proved reserves will decline materially as production from these properties continues.  The Company's future oil and natural gas production is consequently highly dependent upon the level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves or other alternative sources of production.  Any decline in oil prices and any prolonged period of lower prices will adversely impact the Company's future reserves since the Company is less likely to acquire additional producing properties during such periods.  The lower oil prices may have a negative effect on new drilling and development as such activities become far less likely to be profitable.  Thus, any acquisition of new properties poses a greater risk to the Company's financial conditions as such acquisitions may be commercially unreasonable.. In addition, the Company's drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient volumes to be commercially profitable after deducting drilling, operating, and other costs.  Also, wells that are profitable may not achieve a targeted rate of return.  The Company relies on seismic data and other technologies in identifying prospects and in conducting exploration activities.  The seismic data and other technologies used do not allow the Company to know conclusively prior to drilling a well whether oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically.. 13. Table of Contents. The ultimate costs of drilling, completing, and operating a well can adversely affect the economics of a project.  Further drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, title problems, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures, accidents, adverse weather conditions, environmental and other governmental requirements and the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, equipment, and services.. The Company's Reserve Estimates May Be Subject to Other Material Downward Revisions.. The Company's oil and natural gas reserve estimates may be subject to material downward revisions for additional reasons other than the factors mentioned in the previous risk factor entitled \"The Company's Failure to Find or Acquire Additional Reserves Will Result in the Decline of the Company's Reserves Materially from their Current Levels.\"  While the future estimates of net cash flows from the Company's proved reserves and their present value are based upon assumptions about future production levels, prices, and costs that may prove to be incorrect over time, those same assumptions, whether or not they prove to be correct, may cause the Company to make drilling or developmental decisions that will result in some or all of the Company's proved reserves to be removed from time to time from the proved reserve categories previously reported by the Company.. This may occur because economic expectations or forecasts, together with the Company's limited resources, may cause the Company to determine that drilling or development of certain of its properties may be delayed or may not foreseeably occur, and as a result of such decisions any category of proved reserves relating to those yet undrilled or undeveloped properties may be removed from the Company's reported proved reserves.  Consequently, the Company's proved reserves of oil may be materially revised downward from time to time.. In addition, the Company may elect to sell some or all of its oil or gas reserves in the normal course of the Company's business.  Any such sale would result in all categories of those proved oil or gas reserves that were sold no longer being reported by the Company.. There is Risk That the Company May Be Required to Write Down the Carrying Value of its Natural Gas and Crude Oil Properties.. The Company uses the full cost method to account for its natural gas and crude oil operations.  Accordingly, the Company capitalizes the cost to acquire, explore for and develop natural gas and crude oil properties.  Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of natural gas and crude oil properties and related deferred income tax if any may not exceed a \"ceiling limit\" which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10%, plus cost of properties not being amortized and the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproven properties included in the cost being amortized.  If net capitalized cost of natural gas and crude oil properties exceeds the ceiling limit, the Company must charge the amount of the excess, net of any tax effects, to earnings.  This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce the Company's stockholders' equity and earnings.  The risk that the Company will be required to write-down the carrying value of natural gas and crude oil properties increases when natural gas and crude oil prices are low.  In addition, write-downs may occur if the Company experiences substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves.  An expense recorded in a period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even though higher natural gas and crude oil prices may have increased the ceiling applicable to the subsequent period.. Due to the low oil prices experienced since the quarter ended September 30, 2014, during 2015 the Company experienced ceiling test failures resulting in recording non-cash impairments of $14.5 million.  During 2016, the Company recorded ceiling test failures resulting in recording non-cash impairment of $2.7 million.  Should prices continue at depressed levels during future periods, the Company may be required to record additional impairment of its oil properties.. Use of the Company's Net Operating Loss Carryforwards May Be Limited.. At December 31, 2017, the Company had, subject to the limitations discussed in this risk factor, substantial amounts of net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes.  These loss carryforwards will eventually expire if not utilized.  In addition, as to a portion of the U.S. net operating loss carryforwards, the amount of such carryforwards that the Company can use annually is limited under U.S. tax laws.  Uncertainties exist as to both the calculation of the appropriate deferred tax assets based upon the existence of these loss carryforwards, as well as the future utilization of the operating loss carryforwards under the criteria set forth under FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes. In addition, limitations exist upon use of these carryforwards in the event that a change in control of the Company occurs.  There are risks that the Company may not be able to utilize some or all of the remaining carryforwards, or that deferred tax assets that were previously booked based upon such carryforwards may be written down or reversed based on future economic factors that may be experienced by the Company.  The effect of such write downs or reversals, if they occur, may be material and substantially adverse.  At December 31, 2017, federal net operating loss carryforwards amounted to approximately $30.2 million which expire between 2019 and 2036. The total net deferred tax asset was $242,000 at December 31, 2017 and $0 at 2016.  In 2017, The Company released a portion of the allowance related to the Company's Minimum Tax Credit (\"MTC\") as a result of the 2017 Tax Act.  The Company recorded an allowance on the remaining deferred tax asset at December 31, 2017 primarily due to cumulative losses incurred during the 3 years ended December 31, 2017.  The Company recorded a full allowance against the deferred tax asset at December 31, 2016 primarily due to cumulative losses incurred during the 3 years ended December 31, 2016.. 14. Table of Contents. Shortages of Oil Field Equipment, Services or Qualified Personnel Could Adversely Affect the Company's Results of Operations.. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers, and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages.  The Company does not own any drilling rigs and is dependent upon third parties to obtain and provide such equipment as needed for the Company's drilling activities.  There have also been shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment when oil prices have risen.  As prices increased, the demand for rigs and equipment increased along with the number of wells being drilled.  These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel.  These shortages or price increases could adversely affect the Company's profit margin, cash flow, and operating results or restrict the Company's ability to drill wells and conduct ordinary operations.. The Company has Significant Costs to Conform to Government Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry.. The Company's exploration, production, and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels.  The Company is currently in compliance with these regulations.  In order to maintain its compliance, the Company has made and will continue to make substantial expenditures in its efforts to comply with the requirements of environmental and other regulations.  Further, the oil and gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase these costs.  Hydrocarbon-producing states regulate conservation practices and the protection of correlative rights.  These regulations affect the Company's operations and limit the quantity of hydrocarbons it may produce and sell.  Other regulated matters include marketing, pricing, transportation and valuation of royalty payments.. The Company has Significant Costs Related to Environmental Matters.. The Company's operations are also subject to numerous and frequently changing laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection.  The Company owns or leases, and has owned or leased, properties that have been leased for the exploration and production of oil and gas and these properties and the wastes disposed on these properties may be subject to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the federal Water Pollution Control Act, the federal Endangered Species Act, and similar state laws.  Under such laws, the Company could be required to remove or remediate wastes or property contamination.. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have generally become more stringent and, may in some cases, impose \"strict liability\" for environmental damage.  Strict liability means that the Company may be held liable for damage without regard to whether it was negligent or otherwise at fault.  Environmental laws and regulations may expose the Company to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties.. The Company's ability to conduct continued operations is subject to satisfying applicable regulatory and permitting controls.  The Company's current permits and authorizations and ability to get future permits and authorizations may be susceptible, on a going forward basis, to increased scrutiny, greater complexity resulting in increased cost or delays in receiving appropriate authorizations.. Insurance Does Not Cover All Risks.. Exploration for and development and production of oil can be hazardous, involving unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, fires, and loss of well control, which can result in damage to or destruction of wells or production facilities, injury to persons, loss of life or damage to property or to the environment.  Although the Company maintains insurance against certain losses or liabilities arising from its operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that management believes to be prudent, insurance is not available to the Company against all operational risks.. 15. Table of Contents. The Company's Methane Extraction Operation from Non-conventional Reserves Involves Substantial Costs and is Subject to Various Economic, Operational, and Regulatory Risks.. The Company's operations in any future project involving the extraction of methane gas from non-conventional reserves such as landfill gas streams, would require investment of substantial capital and is subject to the risks typically associated with capital intensive operations, including risks associated with the availability of financing for required equipment, construction schedules, air and water environmental permitting, and locating transportation facilities and customers for the products produced from those operations which may delay or prevent startup of such projects.  After startup of commercial operations, the presence of unanticipated pressures or irregularities in constituents of the raw materials used in such projects from time to time, miscalculations or accidents may cause the Company's project activities to be unsuccessful.  Although the technologies to be utilized in such projects are believed to be effective and economical, there are operational risks in the use of such technologies in the combination to be utilized by the Company as a result of both the combination of technologies and the early stages of commercial development and use of such technologies for methane extraction from non-conventional sources such as those to be used by the Company.  This risk could result in total or partial loss of the Company's investment in such projects.  The economic risks of such projects include the marketing risks resulting from price volatility of the methane gas produced from such projects, which is similar to the price volatility of natural gas.. We have been granted one U.S. patent and have been granted a continuation patent application relating to certain aspects of our methane extraction technology.  Our ability to license our technology is substantially dependent on the validity and enforcement of this patent.  We cannot assure you that our patent will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that the rights granted under the patents will provide us competitive advantages.  In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any patents or proprietary rights owned by or licensed to us based on, among other things: subsequently discovered prior art; lack of entitlement to the priority of an earlier, related application; or failure to comply with the written description, best mode, enablement or other applicable requirements. If a third party is successful in challenging the validity of our patent, our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights could materially harm our methane extraction business.  Furthermore, our technology may be the subject of claims of intellectual property infringement in the future.  Our technology may not be able to withstand third-party claims or rights against their use.. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, could divert resources and attention and could require us to obtain a license to use the intellectual property of third parties.  We may be unable to obtain licenses from these third parties on favorable terms, if at all.  Even if a license is available, we may have to pay substantial royalties to obtain a license.  If we cannot defend such claims or obtain necessary licenses on reasonable terms, we may be precluded from offering most or all of our technology and our methane extraction business may be adversely affected.. The Company Faces Significant Competition with Respect to Acquisitions or Personnel.. The oil and gas business is highly competitive.  In seeking any suitable oil and gas properties for acquisition, or drilling rig operators and related personnel and equipment, the Company is a small entity with limited financial resources and may not be able to compete with most other companies, including large oil and gas companies and other independent operators with greater financial and technical resources and longer history and experience in property acquisition and operation.. The Company Depends on Key Personnel, Whom it May Not be Able to Retain or Recruit.. Certain members of present management and certain Company employees have substantial expertise in the areas of endeavor presently conducted and to be engaged in by the Company.  To the extent that their services become unavailable, the Company would be required to retain other and additional qualified personnel to perform these services in technical areas upon which the Company is dependent to conduct exploration and production activities.  The Company does not know whether it would be able to recruit and hire qualified and additional persons upon acceptable terms.  The Company does not maintain \"Key Person\" insurance for any of the Company's key employees.. The Company's Operations are Subject to Changes in the General Economic Conditions.. Virtually all of the Company's operations are subject to the risks and uncertainties of adverse changes in general economic conditions, the outcome of potential legal or regulatory proceedings, changes in environmental, tax, labor and other laws and regulations to which the Company is subject, and the condition of the capital markets utilized by the Company to finance its operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Being a Public Company Significantly Increases the Company's Administrative Costs.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and listing requirements subsequently adopted by the NYSE American, the exchange on which the Company's stock is traded, in response to Sarbanes-Oxley, have required changes in corporate governance practices, internal control policies and audit committee practices of public companies.  Although the Company is a relatively small public company, these rules, regulations, and requirements for the most part apply to the same extent as they apply to all major publicly traded companies. As a result, they have significantly increased the Company's legal, financial, compliance and administrative costs, and have made certain other activities more time consuming and costly, as well as requiring substantial time and attention of our senior management.  The Company expects its continued compliance with these and future rules and regulations to continue to require significant resources.  These rules and regulations also may make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and could make it more difficult for it to attract and retain qualified members for the Company's Board of Directors, particularly to serve on its audit committee.. The Company's Chairman of the Board Beneficially Controls a Substantial Amount of the Company's Common Stock and Has Significant Influence over the Company's Business.. Peter E. Salas, the Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors, is the sole shareholder and controlling person of Dolphin Mgmt. Services, Inc. the general partner of Dolphin Offshore Partners, L.P. (\"Dolphin\"), which is the Company's largest shareholder.  At March 26, 2018, Mr. Salas individually and through Dolphin controls 5,292,241 shares of the Company's common stock and had options granting him the right to acquire an additional 7,500 shares of common stock.  His ownership and voting control of approximately 49.8% of the Company's common stock gives him significant influence on the outcome of corporate transactions or other matters submitted to the Board of Directors or shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, and the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.. Shares Eligible for Future Sale May Depress the Company's Stock Price.. At March 26, 2018, the Company had 10,624,493 shares of common stock outstanding of which 5,439,862 shares were held by officers, directors, and affiliates.  In addition, options to purchase 20,625 shares of unissued common stock were granted under the Tengasco, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan all of which were vested at March 26, 2018.. All of the shares of common stock held by affiliates are restricted or controlled securities under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\").  The shares of the common stock issuable upon exercise of the stock options have been registered under the Securities Act.  Sales of shares of common stock under Rule 144 or another exemption under the Securities Act or pursuant to a registration statement could have a material adverse effect on the price of the common stock and could impair the Company's ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.. Future Issuance of Additional Shares of the Company's Common Stock Would Cause Dilution of Ownership Interest and Adversely Affect Stock Price.. The Company may in the future issue previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interest of its current stockholders.  The Company is currently authorized to issue a total of 100 million shares of common stock with such rights as determined by the Board of Directors.  Of that amount, approximately 10.6 million shares have been issued. The potential issuance of the approximately 89.4 million remaining authorized but unissued shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the Company's common stock.. The Company may also issue additional shares of its common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock for raising capital or other business purposes.  Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of the Company's common stock.. The Company May Issue Shares of Preferred Stock with Greater Rights than Common Stock.. Subject to the rules of the NYSE American, the Company's charter authorizes the Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from holders of the Company's common stock.  Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of the Company's common stock in terms of dividends, priority and liquidation premiums and may have greater voting rights than the Company's common stock.. 17. Table of Contents"
