[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The risk factors described below, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report, should be carefully considered.  Risks and uncertainties described in these risk factors could cause future results to differ materially from historical results as well as from the results anticipated in forward-looking statements.  Although the risk factors described below are the ones that TVA considers significant, additional risk factors that are not presently known to TVA or that TVA presently does not consider significant may also impact TVA's business operations.  See Forward Looking Information above for a description of some matters that could affect the below risks or generate new risks.  Although the TVA Board has the authority to set TVA's own rates and may mitigate some risks by increasing rates, there may be instances in which TVA would be unable to partially or completely eliminate one or more of these risks through rate increases over a reasonable period of time or at all.  Accordingly, the occurrence of any of the following could have a material adverse effect on TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. For ease of reference, the risk factors are presented in four categories: (1) regulatory, legislative, and legal risks, (2) operational risks, (3) financial, economic, and market risks, and (4) general business risks.. REGULATORY, LEGISLATIVE, AND LEGAL RISKS. New laws, regulations, or administrative orders, or congressional action or inaction, may negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as the way TVA conducts its business.. Because TVA is a corporate agency and instrumentality established by federal law, it may be affected by a variety of laws, regulations, and administrative orders that do not affect other electric utilities.  For example, Congress may enact legislation that expands or reduces TVA's activities, changes its governance structure, requires TVA to sell some or all of the assets that it operates, reduces or eliminates the United States' ownership of TVA, or even liquidates TVA.  Additionally, Congress could act, or fail to take action, on various issues that may result in impacts to TVA, including but not limited to action or inaction related to the national debt ceiling or automatic spending cuts in government programs.. 33. Table of Contents. Although it is difficult to predict exactly how new laws, regulations, or administrative orders or congressional action or inaction may impact TVA, some of the possible effects are described below.. TVA may become subject to additional environmental regulation.. New environmental laws, regulations, or orders may become applicable to TVA or the facilities it operates, and existing environmental laws or regulations may be revised or reinterpreted in a way that adversely affects  TVA.  Possible areas of future laws or regulations include, but are not limited to, greenhouse gases, coal combustion residuals, water quality, renewable energy portfolio standards, and natural gas production and transmission.. TVA's ability to control or allocate funds could be restricted.. Other federal entities may attempt to restrict TVA's ability to access or control its funds that are on deposit in TVA's account in the U.S. Treasury.  For example, should the U.S. Treasury approach its debt ceiling, the U.S. Treasury might, as part of an effort to control cash disbursements, attempt to require TVA to receive approval before disbursement of funds from TVA's U.S. Treasury account.  Additionally, the OMB might, in the event that automatic spending cuts go into effect, attempt to require TVA to reduce its budget by a specified percentage (although the legal applicability of such a situation to TVA would depend upon the wording of the legislation making the automatic spending cuts).  Such attempts to restrict TVA's ability to control or allocate funds in those specific types of situations could adversely affect its cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition, its relationships with creditors, vendors, and counterparties, the way it conducts its business, and its reputation.. TVA may lose its protected service territory.. TVA's service area is defined primarily by provisions of law and long-term contracts.  The fence limits the region in which TVA or LPCs which distribute TVA power may provide power.  The anti-cherrypicking provision limits the ability of others to use the TVA transmission system for the purpose of serving customers within TVA's service area.  State service territory laws limit unregulated third parties' ability to sell electricity to consumers.  All TVA wholesale power contracts and many contracts between LPCs and their customers are requirements contracts.  However, other utilities may use their own transmission lines to serve customers within TVA's service area, and third parties are able to avoid the restrictions on serving end-use customers by selling or leasing a customer generating assets rather than selling electricity.. From time to time, there have been efforts to erode the protection of the anti-cherrypicking provision, and the protection of the anti-cherrypicking provision could be limited and perhaps eliminated by congressional legislation at some time in the future.  If Congress were to eliminate or reduce the coverage of the anti-cherrypicking provision but retain the fence, TVA could more easily lose customers that it could not replace within its specified service area.  The loss of these customers could adversely affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. The TVA Board may lose its sole authority to set rates for electricity.. Under the TVA Act, the TVA Board has the sole authority to set the rates that TVA charges for electricity, and these rates are not subject to further review.  If the TVA Board loses this authority or if the rates become subject to outside review, there could be material adverse effects on TVA including, but not limited to, being unable to set rates at a level sufficient to generate adequate revenues to service TVA's financial obligations, properly operate and maintain its power assets, and provide for reinvestment in its power program and becoming subject to additional regulatory oversight that could impede its ability to adapt its business to changing circumstances.. TVA may lose responsibility for managing the Tennessee River system.. TVA's management of the Tennessee River system is important to effectively operate its power system.  TVA's ability to integrate management of the Tennessee River system with power system operations increases power system reliability and reduces costs.  Restrictions on how TVA manages the Tennessee River system could negatively affect its operations.. TVA may lose responsibility for managing real property currently under its control.. TVA's management of real property containing power generation and transmission structures as well as certain reservoir shorelines is important for navigation, flood control, and the effective operation of the power system.  Restrictions on or the loss of the authority to manage these properties could negatively affect TVA's operations, change the way it conducts such operations, or increase costs.. 34. Table of Contents. Existing laws, regulations, and orders may negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as the way TVA conducts its business.. TVA is required to comply with comprehensive and complex laws, regulations, and orders.  The costs of complying with these laws, regulations, and orders are expected to be substantial, and costs could be significantly more than TVA anticipates, especially in the environmental, nuclear, and transmission reliability areas.  To settle the EPA and other claims involving alleged NSR violations, TVA agreed to retire 18 coal-fired units and pay a civil penalty.  The cost to install the necessary equipment to comply with existing environmental laws, regulations, settlement agreements, and orders at some other facilities has caused TVA to retire additional units and may render some other facilities uneconomical, which may cause TVA to retire or idle additional facilities.  In addition, TVA is required to obtain numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies that regulate its business, and TVA may be unable to obtain or maintain all required regulatory approvals.  If there is a delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals or if TVA fails to obtain or maintain any approvals or to comply with any law, regulation, or order, TVA may have to change how it operates certain assets, may be unable to operate certain assets, or may have to pay fines or penalties if it continues to operate the assets.. Additional NRC requirements may negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition or impact TVA's ability to operate its nuclear facilities.. Supplementary NRC rulemaking is under development to mitigate beyond design basis flooding events and seismic events.  Complying with these or other requirements adopted by the NRC may require significant capital expenditures and may negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.  Should TVA be unable to comply with the requirements, TVA may not be able to operate its nuclear facilities as currently contemplated by TVA's generation plans.. TVA is involved in various legal and administrative proceedings whose outcomes may affect TVA's finances and operations.. TVA is involved in various legal and administrative proceedings and is likely to become involved in additional proceedings in the future in the ordinary course of business, as a result of catastrophic events, as a result of environmental conditions at TVA property or areas where TVA has disposed of materials or property, or otherwise.  The additional proceedings could involve, among other things, challenges to TVA's CCR facilities and nuisance suits involving TVA's coal-fired plants.  Although TVA cannot predict the outcome of the individual matters in which TVA is involved or will become involved, the resolution of these matters could require TVA to make expenditures in excess of established reserves and in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.  Similarly, resolution of any such proceedings may require TVA to change its business practices or procedures, change how it operates its coal-fired units, reduce emissions to a greater extent than TVA had planned, close existing CCR facilities sooner than planned, build new CCR facilities sooner than planned, build new CCR facilities that were not planned, or even cease operation of some coal-fired units.. TVA is largely restricted to a defined service area.. TVA's ability to expand its customer base is constrained by its inability to pursue new customers outside its service area.  Accordingly, reductions in demand have to be offset by such actions as reducing TVA's internal costs or increasing rates.  Any failure of such measures to fully offset the reduced demand for power may negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. TVA may become subject to additional NERC requirements.. TVA is subject to federal reliability standards that are set forth by NERC and approved by FERC.  TVA recognizes that reliability standards and expectations continue to become more complex and stringent for transmission systems.  At present there are approximately 90 mandatory standards subject to enforcement containing approximately 1,300 requirements and sub-requirements that must be met.  Complying with these or additional requirements set forth by NERC may require significant capital expenditures and may negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. 35. Table of Contents. OPERATIONAL RISKS. TVA may incur delays and additional costs in its major projects and may be unable to obtain necessary regulatory approval.. Among other projects, TVA is constructing a natural gas-fired plant, conducting the extended power uprate project at Browns Ferry, undertaking repairs at certain hydroelectric facilities, and closing some coal-fired plants and their supporting infrastructure.  These activities involve risks of overruns in the cost of labor and materials as well as risks of schedule delays, which may result from, among other things, changes in laws or regulations, lack of productivity, human error, and the failure to schedule activities properly.  In addition, if TVA does not or cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or licenses, is otherwise unable to complete the development or construction of a facility, decides to cancel construction of a facility, or incurs delays or cost overruns in connection with constructing a facility, or is required to change how it will conduct construction, repair, or closure activities, TVA's cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively affected.  Further, if projects are not completed according to specifications, TVA may suffer, among other things, delays in receiving licenses, reduced plant efficiency, reduced transmission system integrity and reliability, and higher operating costs.. TVA may not be able to operate one or more of its nuclear power units.. Should issues develop with TVA's nuclear power units that TVA is unable to correct, TVA might voluntarily shut down one or more units or be ordered to do so by the NRC.  Returning the unit(s) into operation could be a lengthy and expensive process, or might not be possible depending on circumstances.  In either case, TVA's cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, and reputation may be negatively affected.. Operating nuclear units subjects TVA to nuclear risks and may result in significant costs that adversely affect its cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. TVA has seven operating nuclear units.  Risks associated with these units include the following:. Nuclear Risks.  A nuclear incident at one of TVA's facilities could have significant consequences including loss of life, damage to the environment, damage to or loss of the facility, and damage to non-TVA property.  Although TVA carries certain types of nuclear insurance, the amount that TVA is required to pay in connection with a nuclear incident could significantly exceed the amount of coverage provided by insurance.  Any nuclear incident in the United States, even at a facility that is not operated by or licensed to TVA, has the potential to impact TVA adversely by obligating TVA to pay up to $133 million per year and a total of $891 million per nuclear incident under the Price-Anderson Act.  Any such nuclear incident could also negatively affect TVA by, among other things, obligating TVA to pay retrospective insurance premiums, reducing the availability and affordability of insurance, increasing the costs of operating nuclear units, or leading to increased regulation or restriction on the construction, operation, and decommissioning of nuclear facilities.  Moreover, Congress could impose revenue-raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the limit for a single incident under the Price-Anderson Act.  Further, the availability or price of insurance may be impacted by TVA's acts or omissions, such as a failure to properly maintain a facility, or events outside of TVA's control, such as an equipment manufacturer's inability to meet a guideline, specification, or requirement.. Decommissioning Costs.  TVA maintains a NDT for the purpose of providing funds to decommission its nuclear facilities.  The NDT is invested in securities generally designed to achieve a return in line with overall equity market performance.  TVA might have to make unplanned contributions to the NDT if, among other things:. • The value of the investments in the NDT declines significantly or the investments fail to achieve the assumed real rate of return;. • The decommissioning funding requirements are changed by law or regulation;. • The assumed real rate-of-return on plan assets, which is currently five percent, is lowered by the TVA Board or is overly optimistic;. • The actual costs of decommissioning are more than planned;. • Changes in technology and experience related to decommissioning cause decommissioning cost estimates to increase significantly;. • TVA is required to decommission a nuclear plant sooner than it anticipates; or. • The NRC guidelines for calculating the minimum amount of funds necessary for decommissioning activities are significantly changed.. 36. Table of Contents. If TVA makes additional contributions to the NDT, the contributions may negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. Increased Regulation.  The NRC has broad authority to adopt requirements related to the licensing, operating, and decommissioning of nuclear generation facilities that can result in significant restrictions or requirements on TVA.  If the NRC modifies existing requirements or adopts new requirements, TVA may be required to make substantial capital expenditures at its nuclear plants or make substantial contributions to the NDT.  In addition, if TVA fails to comply with requirements promulgated by the NRC, the NRC has the authority to impose fines, shut down units, or modify, suspend, or revoke TVA's operating licenses.. Waste Disposal.  TVA's nuclear operations produce various types of nuclear waste materials, including spent fuel.  TVA has been storing the spent fuel in accordance with NRC regulations in anticipation that a final storage site for all such waste will be developed and put in operation by the United States government.  If no such site is forthcoming or if no alternative disposal or reuse plan is developed, then TVA might be required to arrange for the safe and permanent disposal of the spent fuel itself.  Such a requirement would cause TVA to incur substantial expense, including substantial capital expenditures, and could cause TVA to change how it operates its nuclear plants.. Availability of Components.  Nuclear facilities require specialized components and access to intellectual property for operation.  As the number of reliable suppliers of such components and access to intellectual property is reduced, the availability of the components and access to the intellectual property will also likely decrease.  If TVA is unable to secure either the original components, intellectual property, or replacements approved for use by the NRC, TVA might have to change how it conducts its operations.. TVA's operation of coal combustion residual facilities exposes it to additional costs and risks.. TVA operates coal-fired units which produce CCR as byproducts of the power production process.  The CCR is contained within dedicated facilities operated by TVA. TVA has closed some of these facilities in compliance with state and federal laws and is in the process of closing others.  Some facilities are intended to remain open during the life of the associated generation unit.  Many of these facilities were constructed prior to the requirement that such facilities be built with liners and thus do not contain such liners.  TVA has been involved in litigation with regard to certain of these facilities, and has been ordered to move all CCR material from unlined facilities at Gallatin Fossil Plant to a lined facility that will have to be constructed for that purpose.  TVA could be subject to similar litigation and orders at other TVA facilities.  TVA has also been ordered by TDEC to undertake investigations for all facilities in Tennessee.  TVA could be required to restrict or stop the use of any or all CCR facilities or relocate CCR material to other lined facilities which do not currently exist.  These measures would impact how TVA operates its facilities, cause TVA to incur greater expenses than currently anticipated for operating or closing existing CCR facilities, and impact TVA's cash flow and results of operations.  Additionally, the relocation of materials would result in a lengthy process with the potential for environmental and safety impacts, which could cause extensive monetary and reputational impacts to TVA.. TVA's facilities and operations may be damaged or interfered with by physical attacks, threats or other interference.. TVA has an extensive generation and transmission system and supporting infrastructure that includes, among other things, TVA's generation facilities and transmission infrastructure such as substations and towers.  Some of TVA's hydroelectric facilities include navigation locks which are necessary for commerce along the Tennessee River system.  TVA also operates flood control dams and supporting infrastructure.  Because of TVA's status as a governmental corporation and TVA's role as predominately the sole power provider for its service territory, TVA may be targeted by individuals, groups, or nation states for physical attacks or threats of such attacks.  Although TVA's operations are protected by automated monitoring systems, TVA employees, local law enforcement, or a combination thereof, it may not be possible to effectively deter or prevent attacks.  Such attacks could pose health and safety risks, significantly disable or destroy TVA assets, interfere with TVA's operations, result in additional regulatory or security requirements, and negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. 37. Table of Contents. TVA's facilities and information infrastructure may not operate as planned due to cyber threats to TVA's assets and operations.. TVA's operations are heavily computerized and include assets such as information technology and networking systems.   As with all industries, the reliance on computerization and networking makes TVA a target for cyber attacks, and the risk of such attacks may increase as individual devices and equipment become accessible via the internet.  TVA has been targeted by cyber attacks in the past and anticipates that it will be targeted in the future.  These attacks may have been carried out, or in the future could be carried out, by individuals, groups, or nation states.  Although TVA has extensive cyber safeguards and works with industry specialists and relevant governmental authorities to deter, stop or mitigate cyber attacks, it is possible that these measures could fail.  In such a case, a cyber attack could compromise sensitive data, significantly disrupt operations, require additional expenditures for cyber security, negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, and reputation, and pose health and safety risks.  Additionally, the theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive data may also subject TVA to penalties and claims from third parties.. Cyber attacks on third parties could interfere with or harm TVA.. TVA relies on third parties for various services, including transferring funds to non-TVA entities in the ordinary course of business.  As with TVA, these third parties are heavily computerized and include assets such as information technology and networking systems.  If these third parties undergo cyber attacks, the services they provide TVA could be disrupted.  This disruption could interfere with TVA's abilities to transfer funds or make payments, which in turn could negatively affect TVA's financial condition and reputation.  Additionally, the theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive data held by these third parties may also subject TVA to additional harm.. TVA's assets or their supporting infrastructure may not operate as planned.. Many of TVA's assets, including generation, transmission, navigation, and flood control assets, have been operating for several decades and have been in nearly constant service since they were completed.  Additionally, certain of TVA's newer assets have experienced operating issues and manufacturing defects in essential equipment. The failure of TVA's assets or their supporting infrastructure to perform as planned may cause health, safety, or environmental problems and may even result in events such as the failure of a dam, the inability to maintain a reservoir at the normal or expected level, or an incident at a coal-fired, gas-fired, or nuclear plant or a CCR facility.  If these assets or their supporting infrastructure fail to operate as planned, if necessary repairs or upgrades are delayed or cannot be completed as quickly as anticipated, or if necessary spare parts are unavailable, TVA, among other things:. • May have to invest a significant amount of resources to repair or replace the assets or the supporting infrastructure;. • May have to remediate collateral damage caused by a failure of the assets or the supporting infrastructure;. • May not be able to maintain the integrity or reliability of the transmission system at normal levels;. • May have to operate less economical sources of power;. • May have to purchase replacement power on the open market at prices greater than its generation costs;. • May be required to invest substantially to meet more stringent reliability standards;. • May be unable to maintain insurance on affected facilities, or be required to pay higher premiums for coverage, unless necessary repairs or upgrades are made;. • May be unable to operate the assets for a significant period of time; and. • May not be able to meet its contractual obligations to deliver power.. Any of these potential outcomes may negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, and reputation.. 38. Table of Contents. TVA's safety program may not prevent accidents that could, among other things, impact TVA's operations or financial condition.. TVA's safety program, no matter how well designed and operated, may not completely prevent accidents.  In addition to the potential human cost of accidents, which could include injury to employees or members of the public, significant accidents could impact TVA's ability to carry out operations, cause it to shut down facilities, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, expose it to litigation, damage its reputation, interfere with its ability to attract or retain a skilled workforce, and harm its financial condition.. Weather conditions may influence TVA's ability to supply power and its customers' demands for power.. Extreme temperatures may increase the demand for power and require TVA to purchase power at high prices to meet the demand from customers, while unusually mild weather may result in decreased demand for power and lead to reduced electricity sales.  Also, in periods of below normal rainfall or drought, TVA's low-cost hydroelectric generation may be reduced, requiring TVA to purchase power or use more costly means of producing power.  Additionally, periods of either high or low levels of rainfall may impede river traffic, impacting barge deliveries of critical items such as coal and equipment for power facilities.  Furthermore, high river water temperatures in the summer may limit TVA's ability to use water from the Tennessee or Cumberland River systems for cooling at certain of TVA's generating facilities, thereby limiting its ability to operate these generating facilities.  This situation would be aggravated during periods of reduced rainfall or drought.  If changes in the climate make such shifts in weather more common or extreme, TVA may be required to, among other things, change its generation mix or change how it conducts its operations.. Catastrophic events may negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected, either directly or indirectly, by catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, solar events, electromagnetic pulses, droughts, floods, tornadoes, wars, national emergencies, terrorist activities, pandemics, and other similar destructive or disruptive events.  These events, the frequency and severity of which are unpredictable, may, among other things, lead to legislative or regulatory changes that affect the construction, operation, and decommissioning of nuclear units and the storage of spent fuel; limit or disrupt TVA's ability to generate and transmit power; limit or disrupt TVA's ability to provide flood control and river management; reduce the demand for power; disrupt fuel or other supplies; require TVA to produce additional tritium; lead to an economic downturn; require TVA to make substantial capital investments for repairs, improvements, or modifications; and create instability in the financial markets.  If public opposition to nuclear power makes operating nuclear plants less feasible as a result of any of these events, TVA may be forced to shut down its nuclear plants.  This would make it substantially more difficult for TVA to obtain greater amounts of its power supply from low or zero carbon emitting resources and to replace its generation capacity when faced with retiring or idling certain coal-fired units.  Additionally, some studies have predicted that climate change may cause catastrophic events, such as droughts and floods, to occur more frequently in the Tennessee Valley region, which could adversely impact TVA.. TVA's service reliability could be affected by problems at other utilities or at TVA facilities, or by the increase in intermittent sources of power.. TVA's transmission facilities are directly interconnected with the transmission facilities of neighboring utilities and are thus part of the larger interstate power transmission grid.  Certain of TVA's generation and transmission assets are critical to maintaining reliability of the transmission system.  Additionally, TVA uses certain assets that belong to third parties to transmit power and maintain reliability.  Accordingly, problems at other utilities as well as at TVA's facilities may cause interruptions in TVA's service to TVA's customers, increase congestion on the transmission grid, or reduce service reliability.  In addition, the increasing contribution of intermittent sources of power, such as wind and solar, may place additional strain on TVA's system as well as on surrounding systems.  If TVA suffers a service interruption, increased congestion, or reduced service reliability, TVA's cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, and reputation may be negatively affected.. TVA's supplies of fuel, purchased power, or other critical items may be disrupted.. TVA purchases coal, uranium, natural gas, fuel oil, and electricity from a number of suppliers.  Additionally, TVA contracts for conversion of uranium into nuclear fuel and purchases other items, such as anhydrous ammonia, liquid oxygen, or replacement parts that are critical to the operation of certain generation assets.  TVA also purchases power from other power producers when the purchase of such power is appropriate due to economic opportunities or operational concerns.  Disruption in the acquisition or delivery of fuel, purchased power, contracted services, or other critical supplies may result from a variety of physical and commercial events, political developments, legal actions, or environmental regulations affecting TVA's suppliers as well as from transportation or transmission constraints.  If one of TVA's suppliers fails to perform under the terms of its contract with TVA, TVA might have to purchase replacement fuel, power, or other critical supplies, perhaps at a significantly higher price than TVA is entitled to pay under the contract.  In some circumstances, TVA may not be able to recover this difference from the supplier.  In addition, any disruption of. 39. Table of Contents. TVA's supplies could require TVA to operate higher cost generation assets, thereby adversely affecting TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.  Moreover, if TVA is unable to acquire enough replacement fuel, power, or supplies, or does not have sufficient reserves to offset the loss, TVA may not be able to operate certain assets or provide enough power to meet demand, resulting in power curtailments, brownouts, or even blackouts.. Events which affect the supply of water in the Tennessee River system and Cumberland River system may interfere with TVA's ability to generate power.. An inadequate supply of water in the Tennessee River system and Cumberland River system could negatively impact  TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition by reducing generation not only at TVA's hydroelectric plants but also at its coal-fired and nuclear plants, which depend on water from the river systems near which they are located for cooling and for use in boilers where water is converted into steam to drive turbines.  An inadequate supply of water could result, among other things, from periods of low rainfall or drought, the withdrawal of water from the river systems by governmental entities or others, and incidents affecting bodies of water not managed by TVA.  While TVA manages the Tennessee River and a large portion of its tributary system to provide much of the water necessary for the operation of its power plants, the USACE operates and manages other bodies of water upon which some of TVA's facilities rely.  Events at these bodies of water or their associated hydroelectric facilities may interfere with the flow of water and may result in TVA's having insufficient water to meet the needs of its plants.  If TVA has insufficient water to meet the needs of its plants, TVA may be required to reduce generation at its affected facilities to levels compatible with the available supply of water.. TVA's determination of the appropriate mix of generation assets may change.. TVA has determined that its power generation assets should consist of a mix of nuclear, coal-fired, natural gas-fired, and renewable power sources, including hydroelectric.  In making this determination, TVA took various factors into consideration, including the anticipated availability of its nuclear units, the availability of non-nuclear facilities, the forecasted cost of natural gas and coal, the forecasted demand for electricity, and environmental compliance including the expense of adding air pollution controls to its coal-fired units.  If any of these assumptions materially change or are overtaken by subsequent events, then TVA's generation mix may not adequately address its operational needs.  Resolving such a situation may require capital expenditures or additional power purchases, and TVA's cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, and reputation may be negatively affected.. FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC, AND MARKET RISKS. TVA's cost reduction efforts may not be successful.. TVA is continuing to work to reduce operating expenses to offset reductions in power demand.  The failure to achieve or maintain cost reductions could adversely affect TVA's rates, reputation, cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. TVA may have to make significant contributions in the future to fund its qualified pension plan.. At September 30, 2017, TVA's qualified pension plan had assets of approximately $8.0 billion compared to liabilities of approximately $12.6 billion.  The plan is mature with approximately 24,000 retirees and beneficiaries receiving benefits of over $700 million per year.  The costs of providing benefits depend upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, provisions of the plan; changing experience and assumptions related to terminations, retirements, and mortality; rates of increase in compensation levels; rates of return on plan assets; discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations and required funding levels; optional forms of benefit payments selected; future government regulation; and levels of contributions made to the plan.. Although the plan is frozen to new participants, any of these factors or any number of these factors could keep at high levels, or even increase, the costs of providing benefits and require TVA to make contributions to the plan in amounts that significantly exceed TVA's planned contributions.  Unfavorable financial market conditions may result in lower expected rates of return on plan assets, loss in value of the investments, and lower discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations.  These changes would negatively impact the funded status of the plan.  Additional contributions to the plan and absorption of additional costs would negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. 40. Table of Contents. TVA's debt ceiling could be made more restrictive.  Additionally, approaching or reaching TVA's debt ceiling could limit TVA's ability to carry out its business.. The TVA Act provides that TVA can issue Bonds in an amount not to exceed $30.0 billion outstanding at any time.  At September 30, 2017, TVA had $24.2 billion of Bonds outstanding (not including noncash items of foreign currency exchange gain of $125 million, unamortized debt issue costs of $59 million and net discount on sale of Bonds of $93 million).. Approaching or reaching the debt ceiling may adversely affect TVA's business by limiting TVA's ability to access capital markets and increasing the amount of debt TVA must service.  Also, Congress may lower TVA's debt ceiling or broaden the types of financial instruments that are covered by the ceiling.  Either of these scenarios may also restrict TVA's ability to raise capital to acquire new power program assets or maintain existing ones, to carry out upgrades or improvements to existing assets or build new ones, to purchase power under long-term power purchase agreements, or to meet regulatory requirements.  In addition, approaching or reaching the debt ceiling may lead to increased legislative or regulatory oversight of TVA's activities and could lead to negative rating actions by credit rating agencies.. TVA may be unable to meet its current cash requirements if TVA's access to the debt markets is limited.. TVA uses cash provided by operations together with proceeds from power program financings and other financing arrangements to fund its current cash requirements.  It is critical that TVA continues to have access to the debt markets in order to meet its cash requirements.  The importance of having access to the debt markets is underscored by the fact that TVA, unlike many utilities, relies almost entirely on debt capital since, as a governmental instrumentality, TVA cannot issue equity securities.. TVA's credit ratings may be impacted by congressional actions or by a downgrade of the United States' sovereign credit ratings.. TVA's current credit ratings are not based solely on its underlying business or financial condition but are based to a large extent on the legislation that defines TVA's business structure.  Key characteristics of TVA's business defined by legislation include (1) the TVA Board's ratemaking authority, (2) the current competitive environment, which is defined by the fence and the anti-cherrypicking provision, and (3) TVA's status as a corporate agency and instrumentality of the United States.  If Congress takes any action that effectively alters any of these characteristics, TVA's credit ratings could be downgraded.. Although TVA Bonds are not obligations of the United States, TVA, as a corporate agency and instrumentality of the United States, may be impacted if the sovereign credit ratings of the United States are downgraded.  Such a downgrade of the United States' sovereign credit ratings could, among other things, result in a downgrade of TVA's credit rating.  Additionally, the economy could be negatively impacted resulting in reduced demand for electricity, an increase in borrowing costs, and an increase in the cost of fuels, supplies, and other materials required for TVA's operations.. TVA, together with owners of TVA securities, may be impacted by downgrades of TVA's credit ratings.. Downgrades of TVA's credit ratings may have material adverse effects on TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition as well as on investors in TVA securities.  Among other things, a downgrade could increase TVA's interest expense by increasing the interest rates that TVA pays on new securities that it issues.  Such an increase may reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes, which may result in the need to increase borrowings, to reduce other expenses or capital investments, or to increase power rates.  A downgrade may also result in TVA's having to post collateral under certain physical and financial contracts that contain ratings triggers.  A downgrade below a contractual threshold may prevent TVA from borrowing under four credit facilities totaling $2.7 billion or posting letters of credit as collateral under these facilities.  At September 30, 2017, there were $1.2 billion of letters of credit outstanding under these facilities.  If TVA were no longer able to post letters of credit as collateral, TVA would likely have to post cash as collateral, which would negatively affect TVA's liquidity.  Further, a downgrade may lower the price of TVA securities in the secondary market, thereby hurting investors who sell TVA securities after the downgrade and diminishing the attractiveness and marketability of TVA securities.. TVA's assumptions about the future may be inaccurate.. TVA uses certain assumptions in order to develop its plans for the future.  Such assumptions include economic forecasts, anticipated energy and commodity prices, cost estimates, construction schedules, power demand forecasts, the appropriate generation mix to meet demand, and potential regulatory environments.  Should these assumptions be inaccurate, or be superseded by subsequent events, TVA's plans may not be effective in achieving the intended results, which could negatively affect cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as TVA's ability to meet electricity demand and the way TVA conducts its business.. 41. Table of Contents. Demand for electricity may significantly decline or change, negatively affecting TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. Some of the factors that could reduce or change the demand for electricity include, but are not limited to, the following:. Economic downturns.  Renewed economic downturns in TVA's service area or other parts of the United States could reduce overall demand for power and thus reduce TVA's power sales and cash flows, especially if TVA's industrial customers, which constitute a material portion of TVA's demand, reduce their operations and thus their consumption of power.. Loss of customers.  TVA could lose customers if customers choose another utility where available, pursue self-generation to meet some or all of their power needs, or move their operations outside of TVA's service territory.  The loss of customers could have a material adverse effect on TVA's cash flows, results of operations, or financial condition, and could result in higher rates, especially because of the difficulty in replacing customers on account of the fence.. Change in demands for electricity generated from renewable sources.  TVA has been adapting its generation mix to account for the growing preference for electricity generated by renewable sources, such as solar or wind.  If demand by customers for power that is largely or exclusively generated from renewable sources exceeds TVA's ability to produce such power, TVA might have to change how it operates and may incur additional expense in meeting this demand.. Increased energy efficiency and conservation.  Increasingly efficient use of energy as well as conservation efforts have reduced the demand for power.  Further reductions, if TVA is unable to compensate for them, could negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition and could result in higher rates and changes to TVA's operations, especially if the reductions occur during an economic downturn or a period of slow economic growth.. Change in technology could require TVA to change how it conducts its operations, affect relationships with customers, or impact its financial condition.. TVA's primary business is to sell power it produces, for the most part, from large facilities such as nuclear power plants, hydroelectric facilities, natural gas-fired facilities, and coal-fired units.  TVA sells power to LPCs and directly served customers.  Research and development activities are ongoing to improve existing and alternative technologies to produce or store electricity, including large-scale energy storage, gas or wind turbines, fuel cells, microturbines, solar cells, and distributed energy or storage resources, such as microgrids.  It is possible that advances in these or other alternative technologies could reduce the costs of such production methods to a level that will enable these technologies to compete effectively with traditional power plants such as TVA's.  These technologies could be more appealing to customers and could lead them to bring pressure on TVA to modify the power contracts to allow customers to generate some of their own power requirements.  Other customers might also cease purchasing power from TVA altogether.  To the extent that sales to such customers are reduced or eliminated, TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition could be negatively affected.  TVA could also be required to modify how it operates its traditional plants or further modify its generation mix to reduce reliance on these facilities.. Additionally, demand could change in terms of amount or timing as devices and equipment become more connected to the internet and it becomes possible to adjust real-time consumption of power.  Such increased control over power consumption could, among other things, affect how TVA operates its facilities or dispatches power or require TVA to change its pricing structure or rates.. TVA is subject to a variety of market risks that may negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. TVA is subject to a variety of market risks, including, but not limited to, commodity price risk, investment price risk, interest rate risk, counterparty credit and performance risk, and currency exchange rate risk.. Commodity Price Risk.  If prices of commodities critical to operations, including coal, uranium, natural gas, fuel oil, crude oil, construction materials, or emission allowances, increase, TVA's rates may increase.. Investment Price Risk.  TVA is exposed to investment price risk in the NDT, its ART, its Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (\"SERP\"), its Deferred Compensation Plan (\"DCP\"), and its pension plan.  If the value of the investments held in the NDT or the pension fund either decreases or fails to increase in accordance with assumed rates of return, TVA may be required to make substantial contributions to these funds.  In addition, although TVA is not required to make contributions to the ART, it may choose to do so, particularly if TVA's estimates of its non-nuclear asset retirement obligation liabilities increase.  TVA may also choose to make contributions to the SERP and DCP from time to time.. 42. Table of Contents. Interest Rate Risk.  Changes in interest rates may increase the amount of interest that TVA pays on new Bonds that it issues, decrease the return that TVA receives on short-term investments, decrease the value of the investments in the NDT, the ART, TVA's pension fund, the SERP and the DCP, increase the amount of collateral that TVA is required to post in connection with certain of its derivative transactions, and increase the losses on the mark-to-market valuation of certain derivative transactions into which TVA has entered.. Counterparty Credit and Performance Risk.  TVA is exposed to the risk that its counterparties will not be able to perform their contractual obligations.  If TVA's counterparties fail to perform their obligations, TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected.  In addition, the failure of a counterparty to perform may make it difficult for TVA to perform its obligations, particularly if the counterparty is a supplier of electricity or fuel.. Currency Exchange Rate Risk.  Over the next several years, TVA plans to spend a significant amount of capital on various projects.  A portion of this amount may be spent on contracts that are denominated in one or more foreign currencies.  Additionally, TVA's three issues of Bonds denominated in British pounds sterling are hedged by currency swap agreements.  The value of the U.S. dollar compared with other currencies has fluctuated widely in recent years, including recent fluctuations in the U.S. dollar to British pound sterling exchange rate primarily driven by the \"BREXIT\" vote for the United Kingdom to leave the European Union.  If not effectively managed, foreign currency exposure could negatively impact TVA's counterparty risk, cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. TVA's ability to use derivatives to hedge certain risks may be limited.. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and its implementing regulations, TVA is subject to recordkeeping, reporting, and reconciliation requirements related to its derivative transactions.  In addition, depending on how regulatory agencies interpret and implement the provisions of this act, TVA's hedging costs may increase, and TVA may have to post additional collateral and margin in connection with its derivative transactions.  These occurrences may, among other things, negatively affect TVA's cash flows and cause TVA to reduce or modify its hedging activities, which could increase the risks to which TVA is exposed.. The market for TVA securities might be limited.. Although many TVA Bonds are listed on stock exchanges, there can be no assurances that any market will develop or continue to exist for any Bonds.  Additionally, no assurances can be made as to the ability of the holders to sell their Bonds or as to the price at which holders will be able to sell their Bonds.  Future trading prices of Bonds will depend on many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the then-current ratings assigned to the Bonds, the amount of Bonds outstanding, the time remaining until the maturity of the Bonds, the redemption features of the Bonds, the market for similar securities, and the level, direction, and volatility of interest rates generally, as well as the liquidity of the markets for those securities.. If a particular series of Bonds is offered through underwriters, those underwriters may attempt to make a market in the Bonds.  Dealers other than underwriters may also make a market in TVA securities.  However, the underwriters and dealers are not obligated to make a market in any TVA securities and may terminate any market-making activities at any time without notice.. Further, certain investors use the environmental impact or sustainability of an industry as a criteria for deciding whether to invest in that industry.  TVA's use of fossil fuels could lead such investors to not purchase TVA securities.. In addition, legal limitations may affect the ability of banks and others to invest in Bonds.  For example, national banks may purchase TVA Bonds for their own accounts in an amount not to exceed 10 percent of unimpaired capital and surplus.  Also, TVA Bonds are \"obligations of a corporation which is an instrumentality of the United States\" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(19)(C)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code for purposes of the 60 percent of assets limitation applicable to U.S. building and loan associations.. TVA may be unable to use regulatory accounting for some or all costs.. TVA uses regulatory accounting to defer certain costs.  To qualify for regulatory accounting, costs must meet certain accounting criteria and be approved for regulatory accounting treatment by the TVA Board in its capacity as TVA's regulator.  If costs do not meet, or cease to meet, these criteria, or if the TVA Board disallows the treatment or ceases to be TVA's sole regulator in such areas, TVA may not be able to defer those costs.  Such an inability to defer costs would likely have a substantial impact on TVA's financial condition and results of operations and could impact the timing and amounts of TVA's rate recovery.  For a discussion of regulatory accounting, see Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.. 43. Table of Contents. TVA's financial control system cannot guarantee that all control issues and instances of fraud or errors will be detected.. No financial control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system are met, and no evaluation of financial controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud or errors can be detected.  The design of any system of financial controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote.. Payment of principal and interest on TVA securities is not guaranteed by the United States.. Although TVA is a corporate agency and instrumentality of the United States government, TVA securities are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.  Principal and interest on TVA securities are payable solely from TVA's net power proceeds.  Net power proceeds are the remainder of TVA's gross power revenues after deducting the costs of operating, maintaining, and administering its power properties and payments to states and counties in lieu of taxes, but before deducting depreciation accruals or other charges representing the amortization of capital expenditures, plus the net proceeds from the sale or other disposition of any power facility or interest therein.  If TVA were to experience extreme financial difficulty and were unable to make payments of principal or interest on its Bonds, the federal government would not be legally obligated to prevent TVA from defaulting on its obligations.  An inability to pay some or all of the principal or interest owed on a TVA security would likely have a negative impact on TVA's financial condition, reputation, or relationship with the investment community, and could result in cross-defaults in other financial arrangements.. GENERAL BUSINESS RISKS. TVA's organizational structure may not adequately support TVA's anticipated business needs or enable it to meet the needs of its current or potential customers.. TVA has been modifying its organizational structure to better adapt to the forecasted economic environment.  If TVA's assumptions about either its forecasts or the proper internal structure of the company to meet the expected environment are inaccurate or if this structure does not adequately support TVA's needs, TVA could face operational or financial challenges that could adversely affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition as well as TVA's ability to attract or retain a skilled workforce and to meet the needs of its current or potential customers.. TVA may have difficulty in adapting its business model to changes in the utility industry and customer preferences.. The traditional business model for power production, selling power from centrally located plants, is facing pressure from a variety of sources, including the potential for self-generation by current or potential customers and increased energy efficiency.  These pressures may reduce the demand for TVA power.  If TVA does not or cannot adapt to this pressure by changing its business model, TVA's financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected.. TVA's quasi-governmental status may interfere in its ability to quickly respond to the needs of its current or potential customers or to act solely in the interest of its ratepayers.. As a quasi-governmental entity, TVA has certain legal requirements that prevent it from responding as quickly to potential changes in the market or requests from current or potential customers as might be desired.  For example, TVA is required to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (\"NEPA\"), which requires environmental reviews to be performed in connection with certain projects.  The delay in responding to requests could damage relationships with current customers, deter potential customers from moving into TVA's service territory, or damage TVA's reputation.. In addition, TVA's nature as a quasi-governmental entity imposes additional pressures that most companies do not face, such as the requirement to support economic development and promote recreational opportunities.  TVA must balance these obligations with the requirement to provide power at the least system cost.  If TVA does not adequately communicate how it fulfills its various missions and the value it provides, its reputation may be harmed, which may result in political pressure to change its nature or operations as well as in the loss of public support.. 44. Table of Contents. TVA's reputation may be negatively impacted.. As with any company, TVA's reputation is a vital element of its ability to effectively conduct its business.  TVA's reputation could be harmed by a variety of factors, including the failure of a generating asset or supporting infrastructure, real or perceived issues with TVA's safety culture or work environment, significant delays in construction projects, acts or omissions of TVA management, the perception of such acts or omissions, measures taken to offset reductions in demand, or a significant dispute with one of TVA's customers.  Any deterioration in TVA's reputation may harm TVA's relationships with its customers and stakeholders, may increase TVA's cost of doing business, may interfere with its ability to attract and retain a skilled workforce, and may potentially lead to the enactment of new laws and regulations, or the modification of existing laws and regulations, that negatively affect the way TVA conducts its business.. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce may negatively affect TVA's results of operations.. TVA's business depends on its ability to recruit and retain key executive officers as well as skilled professional and technical employees.  The inability to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could adversely affect TVA's ability to, among other things, operate and maintain generation and transmission facilities, complete large construction projects, and successfully implement its continuous improvement initiatives.. Loss of a quorum of the TVA Board could limit TVA's ability to adapt to meet changing business conditions.. Under the TVA Act, a quorum of the TVA Board is five members.  Becoming a member of the TVA Board requires confirmation by the U.S. Senate following appointment by the President.  Further, TVA Board members may not continue in office indefinitely until a successor is appointed.  The TVA Board is responsible for, among other things, establishing the rates TVA charges for power as well as TVA's long-term objectives, policies, and plans.  Accordingly, loss of a quorum for an extended period of time would impair TVA's ability to change rates and to modify these objectives, policies, and plans.  Such an impairment would likely have a negative impact on TVA's ability to respond to significant changes in technology, the regulatory environment, or the industry overall and, in turn, negatively affect TVA's cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition.. Changes in the membership of the TVA Board and TVA senior management could impact how TVA operates.. The TVA Board currently has three open positions and may have two more in the near future.  In addition, there is always the possibility that one or more members of TVA's senior management may retire or otherwise leave TVA.  The individuals filling either the TVA Board or senior management positions may wish to change how TVA operates in whole or in part.  If the changes are not successful or TVA is not able to adapt properly to such changes, TVA's financial condition, results of operations, reputation, or relationship with customers could be harmed."
