[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.. Future deterioration or prolonged difficulty in economic conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position and liquidity.. We are a global company and, as such, our businesses are affected by economic conditions in the various geographic regions in which we do business. Economic difficulties generally lead to tightening of credit and liquidity. These conditions often lead to low consumer confidence, which in turn results in delayed and reduced purchases of durable goods such as automobiles and other vehicles. As a result, during difficult economic times our OEM customers can significantly reduce their production schedules. For example, light vehicle production declined significantly during the economic crisis in 2008 and 2009 in North America and Europe. More recently, light vehicle and commercial truck production has declined significantly in South America in 2015 and 2016 and persistent challenges in the Chinese economy going into 2018 may result in lower-than-anticipated growth in both light and commercial vehicles in the region. Additionally, production of off-highway equipment with our content on them have been weak in certain product applications, such as agricultural and construction equipment in the United States and Europe. Any deterioration or prolonged difficulty in economic conditions in any region in which we do business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and liquidity.. In addition, economic difficulties often lead to disruptions in the financial markets, which may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit which could materially and negatively affect our company. Future disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our customers' and our ability to access the liquidity that is necessary to fund operations on terms that are acceptable to us or at all.. In addition, financial or other difficulties at any of our major customers could have a material adverse impact on us, including as a result of lost revenues, significant write downs of accounts receivable, significant impairment charges or additional restructurings beyond our current global plans. Severe financial or other difficulties at any of our major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on us if we are unable to obtain on a timely basis on similar economic terms the quantity and quality of components we require to produce our products.. Moreover, severe financial or operating difficulties at any automotive, commercial truck and off-highway vehicle manufacturer or other supplier could have a significant disruptive effect on the entire industry, leading to supply chain disruptions and labor unrest, among other things. These disruptions could force original equipment manufacturers and, in turn, other suppliers, including us, to shut down production at plants. While the issues that our customers and suppliers face during economic difficulties may be primarily financial in nature, other difficulties, such as an inability to meet increased demand as conditions recover, could also result in supply chain and other disruptions.. Factors that reduce demand for our products or reduce prices could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Demand for and pricing of our products are subject to economic conditions and other factors present in the various domestic and international markets where our products are sold. Demand for our OE products is subject to the level of consumer demand for new vehicles that are equipped with our parts. The level of new light vehicle, commercial truck and off-highway vehicle purchases is cyclical, affected by such factors as general economic conditions, interest rates and availability of credit, consumer confidence, patterns of consumer spending, industrial construction levels, fuel costs, government incentives and vehicle replacement cycles. Consumer preferences and government regulations also impact the demand for new light vehicle purchases equipped with our products. For example, if consumers increasingly prefer electric vehicles, demand for the vehicles equipped with our clean air products would decrease.. Demand for our aftermarket, or replacement, products varies based upon such factors as general economic conditions; the level of new vehicle purchases, which initially displaces demand for aftermarket products; the severity of winter weather, which increases the demand for certain aftermarket products; and other factors, including the average useful life of parts and number of miles driven.. The highly cyclical nature of the automotive and commercial vehicle industry presents a risk that is outside our control and that cannot be accurately predicted. Decreases in demand for automobiles and commercial vehicles and vehicle parts generally, or in the demand for our products in particular, could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we believe that increasingly stringent environmental standards for emissions have presented and will continue to present an important opportunity for us to grow our clean air product line. We cannot assure you, however, that environmental standards for emissions will continue to become more stringent or that the adoption of any new standards will not be delayed beyond our expectations.. 24. Table of Contents. We are dependent on large customers for future revenue. The loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to any of these customers or the loss of market share by these customers could have a material adverse impact on us.. We depend on major vehicle manufacturers for a substantial portion of our net sales. For example, during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, GM and Ford accounted for 14 percent and 13 percent of our net sales, respectively. The loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to any of our large-volume customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations by reducing cash flows and our ability to spread costs over a larger revenue base. We may make fewer sales to these customers for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to: (1) loss of awarded business; (2) reduced or delayed customer requirements; (3) strikes or other work stoppages affecting production by the customers; or (4) reduced demand for our customers' products.. In addition, our OE customers compete intensively against each other and other OE manufacturers. The loss of market share by any of our significant OE customers could have a material adverse effect on our business unless we are able to achieve increased sales to other OE manufacturers.. We are subject to, and could be further subject to, government investigations or actions by other third parties.. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations that govern our business both in the United States and internationally, including antitrust laws, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. Responding to governmental investigations or other actions may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations.. For example, antitrust authorities in various jurisdictions are investigating possible violations of antitrust laws by multiple automotive parts suppliers, including Tenneco. In addition, Tenneco and certain of its competitors are currently subject to civil putative class action lawsuits in the U.S., which allege anti-competitive conduct related to the activities subject to these investigations. More related lawsuits may be filed, including in other jurisdictions.. While we have established a reserve that we believe is adequate to resolve Tenneco's antitrust matters globally, we cannot, however, assure you that the reserve will not change materially from time to time or that the costs, charges and liabilities associated with these matters will not exceed any amounts reserved for them in our consolidated financial statements.. We may be unable to realize sales represented by our awarded business, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. The realization of future sales from awarded business is inherently subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, including the number of vehicles that our OE customers will actually produce, the timing of that production and the mix of options that our OE customers and consumers may choose. For example, light vehicle production declined significantly during the economic crisis in 2008 and 2009 in North America and Europe. More recently, light vehicle and commercial truck production has declined significantly in South America in 2015 and 2016 and persistent challenges in the Chinese economy going into 2018 may result in lower-than-anticipated growth in both light and commercial vehicles in the region. In addition to the risks inherent in the cyclicality of vehicle production, our customers generally have the right to replace us with another supplier at any time for a variety of reasons and have demanded price decreases over the life of awarded business. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will in fact realize any or all of the future sales represented by our awarded business. Any failure to realize these sales could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. In many cases, we must commit substantial resources in preparation for production under awarded OE business well in advance of the customer's production start date. In certain instances, the terms of our OE customer arrangements permit us to recover these pre-production costs if the customer cancels the business through no fault of our company. Although we have been successful in recovering these costs under appropriate circumstances in the past, we can give no assurance that our results of operations will not be materially impacted in the future if we are unable to recover these types of pre-production costs in the event of an OE customer's cancellation of awarded business.. Our level of debt makes us more sensitive to the effects of economic downturns; and provisions in our debt agreements could constrain our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry.. Our level of debt makes us more vulnerable to changes in our results of operations because a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to servicing our debt and is not available for other purposes and our level of debt could impair our ability to raise additional capital if necessary. Further, under the terms of our existing senior secured credit facility, the indentures governing our notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness, we are able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. The more we become leveraged, the more we, and in turn our security holders, become exposed to many of the risks described herein.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service, capital investment and working capital requirements, we may need to. 25. Table of Contents. reduce or cease our repurchase of shares or payments of dividends, seek additional financing or sell assets.   If we require such financing and are unable to obtain it, we could be forced to sell assets under unfavorable circumstances and we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations.. In addition, our senior credit facility and our other debt agreements contain covenants that limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry, including limitations on incurring additional indebtedness, making investments, granting liens, selling assets and merging or consolidating with other companies.. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our debt instruments, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition.. Our senior credit facility and receivables securitization program in the U.S. require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our senior credit facility and our other debt instruments require us to comply with various operational and other covenants. If there were an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately (which, in turn, could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other financing arrangements). If such event occurs, the lenders under our senior credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets and we could lose access to our securitization program. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated, upon an event of default, or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt instruments. This would have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations, and on our ability to effect our share repurchase and dividend programs. For example, as a result of the economic downturn in 2008 and 2009, we needed to amend our senior credit agreement to revise the financial ratios we are required to maintain. Even though we were able to obtain that amendment, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain an amendment on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, if required in the future.. Our working capital requirements may negatively affect our liquidity and capital resources.. Our working capital requirements can vary significantly, depending in part on the level, variability and timing of our customers' worldwide vehicle production and the payment terms with our customers and suppliers. If our working capital needs exceed our cash flows from operations, we would look to our cash balances and availability for borrowings under our borrowing arrangements to satisfy those needs, as well as potential sources of additional capital, which may not be available on satisfactory terms and in adequate amounts, if at all.. We may be unable to realize our business strategy of improving operating performance and generating cost savings and improvements.. We regularly implement strategic and other initiatives designed to improve our operating performance. Our inability to implement these initiatives in accordance with our plans or our failure to achieve the goals of these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on these initiatives to offset pricing pressures from our suppliers and our customers, as described above, as well as to manage the impacts of production cuts, such as the significant production decreases we experienced during 2008 and 2009 as a result of the global economic crisis, and the lingering effects this crisis had in Europe in particular. Our implementation of announced initiatives is from time to time subject to legal challenge in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions (where applicable employment laws differ from those in the United States). Furthermore, the terms of our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our notes may restrict the types of initiatives we undertake. In the past we have been successful in obtaining the consent of our senior lenders where appropriate in connection with our initiatives. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to pursue, successfully implement or realize the expected benefits of any initiative or that we will be able to sustain improvements made to date.. Exchange rate fluctuations could cause a decline in our financial condition and results of operations.. As a result of our international operations, we are subject to increased risk because we generate a significant portion of our net sales and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For example, where we have a greater portion of costs than revenues generated in a foreign currency, we are subject to risk if the foreign currency in which our costs are paid appreciates against the currency in which we generate revenue because the appreciation effectively increases our cost in that country.. The financial condition and results of operations of some of our operating entities are reported in foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies generally will have a negative impact on our reported revenues and operating profit while depreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies will generally have a positive effect on reported revenues and operating profit.. 26. Table of Contents. We do not generally seek to mitigate the impact of currency through the use of derivative financial instruments. To the extent we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in that currency could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The hourly workforce in the industries in which we participate is highly unionized and our business could be adversely affected by labor disruptions.. A portion of our hourly workforce in North America and the majority of our hourly workforce in other regions are unionized. Although we consider our current relations with our employees to be satisfactory, if major work disruptions were to occur, our business could be adversely affected by, for instance, a loss of revenues, increased costs or reduced profitability. We have not experienced a material labor disruption in our recent history, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience a material labor disruption at one of our facilities in the future in the course of renegotiation of our labor arrangements or otherwise.. In addition, substantially all of the hourly employees of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler in North America and many of their other suppliers are represented by the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America under collective bargaining agreements. Vehicle manufacturers, their suppliers and their respective employees in other countries are also subject to labor agreements. A work stoppage or strike at one of our production facilities, at those of a customer, or impacting a supplier of ours or any of our customers, such as the 2008 strike at American Axle which resulted in 30 GM facilities in North America being idled for several months, could have an adverse impact on us by disrupting demand for our products and/or our ability to manufacture our products.. From time to time we experience significant increases and fluctuations in raw materials pricing and increases in certain lead times; and future changes in the prices of raw materials or utility services, or future increases in lead times, could have a material adverse impact on us.. Significant increases in the cost of certain raw materials used in our products, mainly steel, oil and rubber, or the cost of utility services required to produce our products, to the extent they are not timely reflected in the price we charge our customers or are otherwise mitigated, could materially and adversely impact our results. For example, during 2017, carbon steel prices as well as raw material prices (such as ferrochrome, iron ore, scrap and coking coal) to produce carbon steel and stainless steel remained at high levels after the sharp increases in 2016. In addition, both the European Union as well as the United States continue to impose a variety of anti-dumping duties on carbon steel as well as stainless steel. This not only results in higher domestic pricing but limits opportunities in terms of off shore buying. Carbon steel prices in North America increased further in the fourth quarter of 2017 in the run-up to the mandated \"232 Section Investigations\" against the import deadline of mid January 2018.. We attempt to mitigate price increases by evaluating alternative materials and processes, reviewing material substitution opportunities, increasing component sourcing and parts assembly in best cost countries, and strategically pursuing regional and global purchasing strategies for specific commodities. We also aggressively negotiate to recover these higher costs from our customers, and in some cases, such as with respect to steel surcharges, we have the contractual right to recover some or all of these higher costs from certain of our customers. However, if we are successful in recovering these higher costs, we may not receive that recovery in the same period that the costs were incurred and the benefit of the recovery may not be evenly distributed throughout the year.. We also continue to pursue productivity initiatives and other opportunities to reduce costs through restructuring activities. During periods of economic recovery, the cost of raw materials and utility services generally rise. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that we will not face further increased prices in the future or, if we do, whether our actions will be effective in containing them.. With Tenneco entering into new product lines and employing new technologies, our ability to produce certain of these products may be constrained due to longer lead times for our facilities, as well as those of our suppliers. We attempt to mitigate the negative effects of these longer lead times by improving the accuracy of our long term planning; however, we cannot provide any certainty that we will always be successful in avoiding disruptions to our delivery schedules.. We may incur costs related to product warranties, environmental and regulatory matters, legal proceedings and other claims, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, we receive product warranty claims from our customers, pursuant to which we may be required to bear costs of repair or replacement of certain of our products. Vehicle manufacturers require their outside suppliers to guarantee or warrant their products and to be responsible for the operation of these component products in new vehicles sold to consumers. Warranty claims may range from individual customer claims to full recalls of all products in the field. We cannot assure you that costs associated with providing product warranties will not be material, or that those costs will not exceed any amounts reserved in our consolidated financial statements. For a description of our accounting policies regarding warranty. 27. Table of Contents. reserves, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies\" included in Item 7.. We are subject to extensive government regulations worldwide. Foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations may change from time to time and our compliance with new or amended laws and regulations in the future may materially increase our costs and could adversely affect our results of operations and competitive position. For example, we are subject to a variety of environmental and pollution control laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we operate. Soil and groundwater remediation activities are being conducted at certain of our current and former real properties. We record liabilities for these activities when environmental assessments indicate that the remedial efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. On this basis, we have established reserves that we believe are adequate for the remediation activities at our current and former real properties for which we could be held responsible. Although we believe our estimates of remediation costs are reasonable and are based on the latest available information, the cleanup costs are estimates and are subject to revision as more information becomes available about the extent of remediation required. In future periods, we could incur cash costs or charges to earnings if we are required to undertake remediation efforts as the result of ongoing analysis of the environmental status of our properties. In addition, violations of the laws and regulations we are subject to could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, as well as prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations.. We also from time to time are involved in a variety of legal proceedings, claims or investigations. These matters typically are incidental to the conduct of our business. Some of these matters involve allegations of damages against us relating to environmental liabilities, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims, taxes, employment matters or commercial or contractual disputes or allegations relating to legal compliance by us or our employees. For example, we are subject to a number of lawsuits initiated by a significant number of claimants alleging health problems as a result of exposure to asbestos. Many of these cases involve significant numbers of individual claimants. Many of these cases also involve numerous defendants, with the number of defendants in some cases exceeding 100 defendants from a variety of industries. As major asbestos manufacturers or other companies that used asbestos in their manufacturing processes continue to go out of business, we may experience an increased number of these claims.. We vigorously defend ourselves in connection with all of the matters described above. We cannot, however, assure you that the costs, charges and liabilities associated with these matters will not be material, or that those costs, charges and liabilities will not exceed any amounts reserved for them in our consolidated financial statements. In future periods, we could be subject to cash costs or charges to earnings if any of these matters are resolved unfavorably to us. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Environmental and Legal Contingencies\" included in Item 7.. Developments relating to our intellectual property could materially impact our business.. We and others in our industry hold a number of patents and other intellectual property rights, including licenses, that are critical to our respective businesses and competitive positions. Notwithstanding our intellectual property portfolio, our competitors may develop similar or superior proprietary technologies. Further, as we expand into regions where the protection of intellectual property rights is less robust, the risk of others replicating our proprietary technologies increases, which could result in a deterioration of our competitive position. On occasion, we may assert claims against third parties who are taking actions that we believe are infringing on our intellectual property rights. Similarly, third parties may assert claims against us and our customers and distributors alleging our products infringe upon third party intellectual property rights. These claims, regardless of their merit or resolution, are frequently costly to prosecute, defend or settle and divert the efforts and attention of our management and employees. Claims of this sort also could harm our relationships with our customers and might deter future customers from doing business with us. If any such claim were to result in an adverse outcome, we could be required to take actions which may include: expending significant resources to develop or license non-infringing products; paying substantial damages to third parties, including to customers to compensate them for their discontinued use or replacing infringing technology with non-infringing technology; or cessation of the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or our competitive position.. We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and if we are unable to protect against service interruptions or security breaches, our business could be adversely affected.. Our operations rely on a number of information technologies to manage, store, and support business activities. Some of these technologies are managed by third-party service providers and are not under our direct control. We have put in place a number of systems, processes, and practices designed to protect against the failure of our systems, as well as the misappropriation, exposure or corruption of the information stored thereon. Unintentional service disruptions or intentional actions such as intellectual property theft, cyber-attacks, unauthorized access or malicious software, may lead to such misappropriation, exposure or corruption if our, or our service providers', protective measures prove to be inadequate. Further,. 28. Table of Contents. these events may cause operational impediments or otherwise adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and/or results of operations. We could also encounter violations of applicable law or reputational damage from the disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or our employees, customers or suppliers. In addition, the disclosure of non-public information could lead to the loss of our intellectual property and/or diminished competitive advantages. Should any of the foregoing events occur, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. We may have difficulty competing favorably in the highly competitive automotive parts industry.. The automotive parts industry is highly competitive. Although the overall number of competitors has decreased due to ongoing industry consolidation, we face significant competition within each of our major product areas, including from new competitors entering the markets which we serve. The principal competitive factors include price, quality, service, product performance, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation, global presence and timely delivery. As a result, many suppliers have established or are establishing themselves in emerging, low-cost markets to reduce their costs of production and be more conveniently located for customers. Although we are also pursuing a best-cost country production strategy and otherwise continue to seek process improvements to reduce costs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete favorably in this competitive market or that increased competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business by reducing our ability to increase or maintain sales or profit margins.. Furthermore, due to the cost focus of our major customers, we have been, and expect to continue to be, requested to reduce prices as part of our initial business quotations and over the life of vehicle platforms we have been awarded. We cannot be certain that we will be able to generate cost savings and operational improvements in the future that are sufficient to offset price reductions requested by existing customers and necessary to win additional business. Customers also direct us into suppliers for component purchases not allowing us to leverage our own supply base and realize cost reductions on this directed spend.. The decreasing number of automotive parts customers and suppliers could make it more difficult for us to compete favorably.. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected because the customer base for automotive parts is decreasing in both the original equipment market and aftermarket. As a result, we are competing for business from fewer customers. Furthermore, consolidation and bankruptcies among automotive parts suppliers have resulted in fewer, larger suppliers who benefit from purchasing and distribution economies of scale. If we cannot achieve cost savings and operational improvements sufficient to allow us to compete favorably in the future with these larger companies, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to a reduction of, or inability to increase, sales.. Our aftermarket sales may be negatively impacted by increasing competition from lower cost, private-label products.. Distribution channels in the aftermarket have continued to consolidate and, as a result, our sales to large retail customers represent a significant portion of our aftermarket business. Private-label aftermarket products, which are typically manufactured at a lower cost, often containing little or no premium technology, and are branded with a store or other private-label brand, are increasingly available to these large retail customers. Our aftermarket business is facing increasing competition from these lower cost, private-label products and there is growing pressure to expand our entry-level product lines so that retailers may offer a greater range of price points to their consumer customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our aftermarket sales to these large retail customers or that increased competition from these lower cost, private-label aftermarket products will not have an adverse impact on our aftermarket business.. Longer product lives of automotive parts are adversely affecting aftermarket demand for some of our products.. The average useful life of automotive parts has steadily increased in recent years due to innovations in products and technologies. The longer product lives allow vehicle owners to replace parts of their vehicles less often. As a result, a portion of sales in the aftermarket has been displaced. This has adversely impacted, and could continue to adversely impact, our aftermarket sales. Also, any additional increases in the average useful lives of automotive parts would further adversely affect the demand for our aftermarket products. Aftermarket sales represented approximately 13 percent, 14 percent and 15 percent of our net sales in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively.. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition.. We may, from time to time, consider acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired businesses, the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns and potential adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers and suppliers. In addition, any acquisitions could involve the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we pursue or that such acquisitions, and the potential. 29. Table of Contents. related synergies, will perform as planned or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow, or deliver any anticipated strategic benefits. Any such failure could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, which have unique risks.. Certain of our operations, particularly in China, are conducted through joint ventures. Our joint ventures are governed by mutually established agreements that we entered into with our partners, and, as such, we do not unilaterally control the joint ventures. There is a risk that our partners' objectives for the joint ventures may not be aligned with ours, leading to potential disagreements over management of the joint ventures. At some of our joint ventures, our joint venture partner is also affiliated with the largest customer of the joint venture, which may create a conflict between the interests of our partner and the joint venture. Also, our ability to sell our interest in a joint venture may be subject to contractual and other limitations.. Additional risks associated with joint ventures include our partners failing to satisfy contractual obligations, conflicts arising between us and any of our partners, a change in the ownership of any of our partners and our limited ability to control compliance with applicable rules and regulations. Accordingly, any such occurrences could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We are subject to risks related to operating a multi-national company.. We have manufacturing and distribution facilities in many regions and countries, including Australia, Asia, North America, Europe, South Africa and South America, and sell our products worldwide. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 53 percent of our net sales were derived from operations outside North America. Current events, including tax reform proposals and the possibility of renegotiated trade deals and international tax law treaties, create a level of uncertainty, and potentially increased complexity, for multi-national companies. These uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, international operations are subject to various risks which could have a material adverse effect on those operations or our business as a whole, including:. • currency exchange rate fluctuations;. • exposure to local economic conditions and labor issues;. • exposure to local political conditions, including the risk of seizure of assets by a foreign government;. • exposure to local social unrest, including any resultant acts of war, terrorism or similar events;. • exposure to local public health issues and the resultant impact on economic and political conditions;. • Inflation in certain countries;. • controls on the repatriation of cash, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;. • export and import restrictions and an unfavorable trade environment, including as a result of political conditions and changes in the laws in the United States and elsewhere; and. • requirements for manufacturers to use locally produced goods.. Entering new markets poses new competitive threats and commercial risks.. As we have expanded into markets beyond light vehicles, we expect to diversify our product sales by leveraging technologies being developed for the light vehicle segment. Such diversification requires investments and resources which may not be available as needed. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in leveraging our capabilities into new markets and thus, in meeting the needs of these new customers and competing favorably in these new markets. Further, a significant portion of our growth potential is dependent on our ability to increase sales to commercial truck and off-highway vehicle customers. While we believe that we can achieve our growth targets with the production contracts that have been or will be awarded to us, our future prospects will be negatively affected if those customers underlying these contracts experience reduced demand for their products, or financial difficulties.. Impairment in the carrying value of long-lived assets and goodwill could negatively affect our operating results.. We have a significant amount of long-lived assets and goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. Under generally accepted accounting principles, long-lived assets are required to be reviewed for impairment whenever adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. If business conditions or other factors cause profitability and cash flows to decline, we may be required to record non-cash impairment charges. Goodwill must be evaluated for impairment annually or more frequently if events indicate it is warranted. If the carrying value of our reporting units exceeds their current fair value as determined based on discounted future cash flows of the related business, the goodwill is considered impaired. As a result, a goodwill impairment loss would be measured at the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. Events and conditions that could result in impairment in the value of. 30. Table of Contents. our long-lived assets and goodwill include changes in the industries in which we operate, particularly the impact of a downturn in the global economy, as well as competition and advances in technology, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, or other factors leading to reduction in expected long-term sales or profitability. We recorded an $11 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to Europe and South America Ride Performance reporting unit in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 and did not record any non-cash asset impairment charges during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2016 or 2015.. The value of our deferred tax assets could become impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $193 million in net deferred tax assets. These deferred tax assets include net operating loss carryovers and tax credits that can be used to offset taxable income in future periods and reduce income taxes payable in those future periods. Each quarter, we determine the probability of the realization of deferred tax assets, using significant judgments and estimates with respect to, among other things, historical operating results and expectations of future earnings and tax planning strategies. If we determine in the future that there is not sufficient positive evidence to support the valuation of these assets, due to the risk factors described herein or other factors, we may be required to further adjust the valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets. Such a reduction could result in material non-cash expenses in the period in which the valuation allowance is adjusted and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our expected annual effective tax rate could be volatile and materially change as a result of changes in mix of earnings and other factors.. Our overall effective tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of our total profit or loss before tax. However, tax expenses and benefits are determined separately for each tax paying entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes in each jurisdiction. Losses in certain jurisdictions may provide no current financial statement tax benefit. As a result, changes in the mix of profits and losses between jurisdictions, among other factors, could have a significant impact on our overall effective tax rate.. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. As disclosed in Part II, Item 9A, management identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting related to the accounting for payments received by the Company from suppliers by certain purchasing and accounting personnel at the Company's China subsidiaries. A material weakness (as defined in Rule 12b-2) is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in \"Internal Control-An Integrated Framework  (2013).\" This material weakness resulted in a revision to our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, each quarterly and year-to-date periods in those respective years, and the first quarterly period in 2017. We have designed, and are implementing, a remediation plan to address this material weakness. If remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses in internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results."
