[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results. The following are certain risk factors that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. These risk factors and others described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. If our business, financial position and results of operations are adversely affected by any of these or other adverse events, our stock price would also likely be adversely affected.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS. We face significant competition in the wireless communications distribution industry.. The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented, and is comprised of several national distributors, as well as numerous regional distributors. In addition, many manufacturers sell and fulfill directly to customers. Barriers to entry for distributors are relatively low, particularly in the mobile devices and accessory market, and the risk of new competitors entering the market is high. Some of our current competitors have substantially greater capital resources and sales and distribution capabilities than we do. In response to competitive pressures from any of our current or future competitors, we may be required to lower selling prices in order to maintain or increase market share, and such measures could adversely affect our operating results. We are also seeing increased competition in the form of e-commerce sites as consumers and business are increasingly looking to the internet to purchase goods.. We offer no assurance that we will not lose market share, or that we will not be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to the actions of our competitors, thereby reducing our gross margins. Furthermore, to remain competitive we may be forced to offer more credit or extended payment terms to our customers. This could increase our required capital, financing costs, and the amount of our bad debt expenses.. We typically purchase and sell our products and services on the basis of individual sales or purchase orders, and even in those cases where we have standing agreements or arrangements with our customers and vendors, those agreements and arrangements typically contain no purchase or sale obligations and are otherwise terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise short notice.. Our sales to customers and our purchases from vendors are largely governed by individual sales or purchase orders, so there is no guarantee of future business. In some cases, we have formal agreements or arrangements with significant customers or vendors, but they are largely administrative in nature and are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise short notice, and they typically contain no purchase or sale obligations. Many of our customer and vendor contracts contain \"evergreen\" clauses, although this too is largely a matter of administrative convenience, because the contracts are nevertheless typically terminable on short notice, and because no purchase and sale obligation in any event arises other than pursuant to an accepted purchase order. When negotiating with customers and vendors, we seek the most favorable terms available under the circumstances. Our preferred vendor terms include, among others, terms that provide for product warranty and return rights, as well as product liability and intellectual property indemnification rights, in each case consistent with our preferred business methods and objectives. We have not been able, nor do we expect in the future to be able to negotiate the inclusion of all our preferred terms, or our preferred language for those terms, in every contract. The degree of our success in this regard is largely a function of the parties' relative bargaining positions.. 12. Table of Contents. When unable to negotiate the inclusion of our preferred terms or preferred language in a particular vendor contract, we assess any increased risk presented, as well as mitigating factors, analyze our overall business objectives, and then proceed accordingly.  In some instances, we refuse the contract and seek other sources for the product, and in other instances business objectives and circumstances are determined to outweigh or mitigate any increased risk, or otherwise dictate that we proceed with the contract, notwithstanding.  We consistently seek to manage contractual risks resulting from vendor contracts not including our preferred terms or language. However, these risks persist, and even when we are successful in negotiating our preferred terms, performance of these terms is not assured.. If our vendors or suppliers refuse to, or for any reason are unable to, supply products to us in sufficient quantities to meet demand, or at all, and if we are not able to procure those products from alternative sources, we may not be able to maintain appropriate inventory levels to meet customer demand and our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. Similarly, if customers decide to purchase from other sources, instead of from us, or experience significant changes in demand internally or from their own customer bases, become financially unstable, or are acquired by another company, our ability to generate revenues from these customers may, or in some cases would, be significantly affected, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. The loss or any change in the business habits of key customers or vendors may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Because our standing arrangements and agreements with our customers and vendors typically contain no purchase or sale obligations and are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise relatively short notice, we are subject to significant risks associated with the loss or change at any time in the business habits and financial condition of key customers or vendors. We have experienced the loss and changes in the business habits of key customer and vendor relationships in the past and expect to do so again in the future.. Sales of products purchased from our largest wireless infrastructure (11%) and mobile device and accessories (10%) suppliers, generated approximately 21% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2018, and sales from our largest ten vendors generated approximately 43% of fiscal year 2018 total revenues.  As is the case with many of our vendor and customer relationships, our contractual arrangements with these large vendors are terminable by either party upon several months' notice. If these contracts or our relationships with these vendors terminate for any reason, or if any of our other significant vendor relationships terminate for any reason, and we are not able to sell or procure a sufficient supply of those products from alternative sources, or at all, our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our vendors are subject to many if not all of the same (or similar) risks and uncertainties to which we are subject, as well as other risks and uncertainties, and we compete with others for their business. Accordingly, we are at a continual risk of loss of their business on account of a number of factors and forces, many of which are largely beyond our control.. In fiscal year 2018, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues. However, in the retail market, 46% of our sales are made to five customers. Also, customer mix can change rapidly, and we may see changes in customer concentrations in the future.  If any of our significant customer relationships terminate for any reason, and we are not able to replace those customers and associated revenues, our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected.. The loss of customer relationships and the corresponding reduction in the volume of product sales identified to those relationships, can also affect our negotiating ability with vendors supplying those products.  This can affect our margins in sales of those products to other customers.  If we are unable to replace those products at favorable pricing and terms, or if we are unable to acquire those products from vendors or offer those products to our customers on favorable terms, our competitiveness may suffer and result in reduced revenues and profits.  Like our vendors, our customers are subject to many if not all of the same (or similar) risks and uncertainties to which we are subject, as well as other risks and uncertainties, and we compete with others for their business.  Accordingly, we are at continual risk of loss of their business on account of a number of factors and forces, many of which are largely beyond our control.. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in replacing any of our past, present or future vendor or customer relationships if and when lost, or that we will not suffer a substantial reduction in revenues as a result of loss of. 13. Table of Contents. any such relationship. As such, vendor, customer, or revenue loss would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Changes in customer or product mix could cause our gross margin percentage to decline.. We continually experience changes in customer and product mix that affects gross margin. Changes in customer and product mix result primarily from changes in customer demand, customer acquisitions, selling and marketing activities and competition.. Our business depends on the continued tendency of wireless equipment manufacturers and network operators to outsource aspects of their business to us in the future.. We provide functions such as distribution, inventory management, fulfillment, customized packaging, e-commerce solutions, and other outsourced services for many wireless manufacturers and network operators. Certain wireless equipment manufacturers and network operators have elected, and others may elect, to undertake these services internally. Additionally, our customer service levels, industry consolidation, competition, deregulation, technological changes or other developments could reduce the degree to which members of the global wireless industry rely on outsourced logistic services such as the services we provide. Any significant change in the market for our outsourced services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our outsourced services are generally provided under short-term contractual arrangements. The failure to obtain renewals or otherwise maintain these agreements on terms, including price, consistent with our current terms could have an adverse effect on our business.. We require substantial capital to operate, and the inability to obtain financing on favorable terms will adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations.. Our business requires substantial capital to operate and to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that are not financed by trade creditors. We have historically relied upon cash generated from operations, revolving credit facilities and trade credit from our vendors to satisfy our capital needs and finance growth. As the financial markets change and new regulations come into effect, the cost of acquiring financing and the methods of financing may change. Changes in our credit rating or other market factors may increase our interest expense or other costs of capital, or capital may not be available to us on competitive terms to fund our working capital needs. Our existing secured revolving credit facility contains various financial and other covenants that may limit our ability to borrow or limit our flexibility in responding to business conditions. The inability to maintain or when necessary obtain adequate sources of financing could have an adverse effect on our business. Our existing secured revolving credit facility includes variable rate debt, thus exposing us to risk of fluctuations in interest rates. Such fluctuations in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We may in the future use interest rate swaps in an effort to achieve a desired proportion of fixed and variable rate debt. We would utilize these derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. However, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to changes in interest rates.. Our ability to maintain and borrow under our revolving credit agreement could be constrained by the level of eligible receivables and by any failure to meet certain financial and other covenants in our revolving credit agreement.. Our borrowing availability under our secured revolving credit facility is determined in part by a borrowing base and is limited to certain amounts of eligible accounts receivable.  If the value of these accounts receivable were to decrease significantly, the amount available for borrowing under the facility would decrease and our ability to borrow under the facility could be significantly impacted. Borrowing under the facility is also conditioned upon compliance with financial and other covenants included in the revolving credit agreement and a related guaranty and security agreement. Among these is a covenant to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio at any time during which the borrowing availability is otherwise less than $10 million. There are no assurances that we will be able to comply with all applicable covenants in these agreements, and in the event that we do not, our ability to borrow under our secured revolving credit facility could be limited or suspended, or could terminate.. 14. Table of Contents. If we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our secured revolving credit facility, our lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, a significant portion of our assets.. Indebtedness under our secured revolving credit facility is secured by continuing first priority security interests in our inventory, accounts receivable, and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and chattel paper relating to inventory and accounts, and to all proceeds of the foregoing.  If we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our secured revolving credit facility, our lenders could foreclose on these assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Compliance with regulations regarding the use of \"conflict minerals\" could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain of our products, and customers may seek other sources if we are unable to demonstrate to their satisfaction that our products are conflict free.. Increased focus on environmental protection and social responsibility initiatives led to the passage of Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), and its implementing SEC regulations.  The Dodd-Frank Act imposes supply chain diligence and disclosure requirements for certain manufacturers of products containing specific minerals that may originate in or near the Democratic Republic of the Congo (the \"DRC\") and finance or benefit local armed groups. These \"conflict minerals\" are commonly found in certain of the products that we acquire from vendors and distribute to customers and are also found in certain products in our Ventev® product line that we contract to be manufactured by others or that we assemble.  The implementation of these regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some of the raw materials used in certain of these products. This in turn may affect our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of our products and may affect related pricing. Because we are considered a manufacturer of certain of our Ventev® products, we are subject to additional \"conflict minerals\" diligence and disclosure requirements with regard to these products.   Some of our customers may elect to disqualify us as a supplier if we are unable to verify that the products we sell to them are DRC conflict free.. Weakness in the global economic environment may have significant effects on our customers and suppliers that could result in material adverse effects on our business, operating results, and stock price.. Weakness in the global economic environment  -  may include, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, significant decreases in consumer confidence and consumer and business spending, high rates of unemployment and concerns that the worldwide economy experience other significant challenges  -  could materially adversely affect our customers' access to capital or willingness to spend capital on our products, and/or their levels of cash liquidity with which to pay for our products. In addition, our suppliers' access to capital and liquidity could be affected, which may in turn adversely impact their ability to maintain inventories, production levels, and/or product quality, or cause them to raise prices or lower production levels, or result in their ceasing operation.. The potential effects of weakness in the global economic environment are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period may be more difficult to predict. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, and could adversely affect our stock price.. We may be unable to successfully execute our merchandising and marketing strategic initiatives.. We are focusing our sales and marketing efforts and initiatives to maximize sales. If we fail to successfully execute these initiatives, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. The telecommunications products marketplace is dynamic and challenging because of the continued introduction of new products and services.. We must constantly introduce new products, services and product features to meet competitive pressures. We may be unable to timely change our existing merchandise sales mix in order to meet these competitive pressures, which may result in increased inventory costs, inventory write-offs or loss of market share.. Additionally, our inventory may also lose value due to price changes made by our significant vendors, in cases where our arrangements with these vendors do not provide for inventory price protection, or in cases where the vendor is unable or unwilling to provide these protections.. Consolidation among wireless service carriers could result in the loss of significant customers.. The wireless service carrier industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. If any of our significant customers or partners are acquired or consolidate with other carriers, or are otherwise involved in any significant transaction that results in them ceasing to do business with us, or significantly reducing the level of business that they do with us, our revenues from those customers could be affected, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. The failure of our information systems, or our inability to maintain or upgrade our information systems without incident or delay, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We are highly dependent upon our internal computer and electronic and telecommunication systems, many of which are proprietary, to operate our business. These systems support all aspects of our business operations, including means of internal and external communication, inventory and order management, shipping, receiving and accounting. Most of our information systems contain a number of internally developed applications. In addition, all of these systems require continued maintenance and also require upgrading or replacement from time to time. There can be no assurance that these systems will not fail or experience disruptions, that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the operation of such systems, that we will be able to expand and improve our systems, that we will be able to convert to new systems efficiently as and when necessary, or that we will be able to integrate new programs effectively with our existing programs. We like most businesses are continually engaged in an effort to defend against and to ward off attacks from hackers and others, and have experienced cyber-attacks from time to time.  Any of such problems, or any significant damage or destruction of these systems, including pursuant to or as a result of system security breaches, data protection breaches or other cyber-attacks, could harm our relationship with our customers or suppliers. Corrective action and compliance with applicable privacy and data protection laws could be costly. Any of these or similar events or occurrences could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We depend heavily on e-commerce, and website security breaches or internet disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We rely on the internet (including TESSCO.com®) for a significant percentage of our orders and information exchanges with our customers. The internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns. There can be no assurances that our website will not experience any material breakdowns, disruptions or breaches in security. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, this could harm our relationship with our customers or suppliers. Disruption of our website or the internet in general could impair our order processing or more generally prevent our customers and suppliers from accessing information or placing orders. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. System security breaches or data protection breaches could adversely disrupt our business and harm our reputation, financial position and results of operations.. We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. In addition, we routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data, including sensitive and personally identifiable information, including customer credit card data and other information. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or vendors, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. Such breaches, costs and consequences could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows.. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), a security standard applicable to companies that collect, store or transmit certain data regarding credit and debit cards, holders and transactions.  From time to time we may not be fully or materially compliant with PCI DSS or other payment card operating rules.  Any failure to comply fully or materially with the PCI DSS now or at any point in the future may violate payment card association operating rules and the terms of our contracts with payment processors and merchant banks, and could subject us to fines, penalties, damages and civil liability, and could result in the loss of our ability to accept credit and debit card payments.  Recently, we conducted an internal assessment of systems relative to PCI-DSS compliance and determined that we were unable to certify as to full compliance with current standards.  As a result, we are now upgrading select systems in order to address identified issues or concerns.  These efforts are costly and there is no guarantee that we will be successful or avoid fines, penalties, damages or civil liability, and even if successful, there is no guarantee that PCI DSS compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment systems or the theft, loss or misuse of data pertaining to credit and debit cards, credit and debit card holders and credit and debit card transactions.. The inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The nature of our business includes (but is not limited to) a high volume of transactions, business complexity, wide geographical coverage, and broad scope of products, suppliers, and customers. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, information technology and business generation personnel are critical to our business.  The loss of any of the members of our senior management team, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. To attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, we rely heavily on stock-based incentive awards such as Performance Stock Units (PSUs) and stock options. If performance targets associated with PSUs are not met, or the value of such awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock and/or if our other stock-based compensation, such as stock options, otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees could be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect our business, financial position and results of operations and/or require us to increase the amount we spend on cash and other forms of compensation. Our ability to issue PSUs, stock options and other equity instruments is also limited by the provisions of and our available shares under our current and/or future stock incentive plans, which may be subject to shareholder approval. We may currently issue awards under our incentive plan only through July 21, 2021, and as of May 10, 2018, there were 245,450 shares available for future awards. Therefore, our ability to offer stock-based incentive awards may be limited, which may have an adverse effect on our continued ability to attract and retain, and motivate, our employees, and, subsequently, on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, an increase in the number of shares for future awards, under either current or future compensation or incentive plans or arrangements could lead to dilution of our other stockholders.. 17. Table of Contents. The damage or destruction of any of our principal distribution or administrative facilities could materially adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations.. If either of our distribution centers in Hunt Valley, Maryland or Reno, Nevada, were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of product inventory and our ability to conduct our business in the ordinary course could be materially and adversely affected. Similarly, if our office locations in Maryland, Nevada or Texas were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, our ability to conduct marketing, sales and other corporate activities in the ordinary course could be adversely affected.. We depend on third parties to manufacture products that we distribute and, accordingly, rely on their quality control procedures.. Product manufacturers typically provide limited warranties directly to the end consumer or to us, which we generally pass through to our customers. If a product we distribute for a manufacturer has quality or performance problems, our ability to provide products to our customers could be disrupted, which could adversely affect our operations.. We are subject to potential declines in inventory value.. We are subject to the risk that the value of our inventory will decline as a result of price reductions by vendors or technological obsolescence or failure. It is the policy of many of our vendors to protect distributors like us from the loss in value of inventory due to technological change or failure, or the vendors' price reductions. Some vendors (including those who manufacture our proprietary products), however, may be unwilling or unable to pay us for price protection claims or products returned to them under purchase agreements. No assurance can be given that such practices to protect distributors like us will continue, that unforeseen new product developments, product failure or product obsolescence will not adversely affect us, or that we will be able to successfully manage our existing and future inventories.. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of finished goods and bulk inventory to meet the demands of our customers.. Our ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of inventory from our suppliers. We have experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Furthermore, certain of our products or components are available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition.. If our business does not perform well, or if we otherwise experience a decline in the fair values of a portion or all of our business, we may be required to recognize impairments of our intangible or other long-lived assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present.. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margin, growth rates and discount rates based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying these factors. We first perform a qualitative analysis to determine if it is more likely than not that goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets are impaired. This analysis includes assumptions and estimates related to macroeconomic, industry and company specific events and trends. In the event that we find it is more likely than not that an impairment has occurred a quantitative analysis is performed. Goodwill and indefinite lived asset valuations are calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived assets prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant. 18. Table of Contents. component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill and indefinite lived asset impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges could substantially affect our financial results in the periods of such charges. In addition, impairment charges would negatively impact our financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future. As of April 1, 2018, we had $12.5 million of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, which represented approximately 6.3% of total assets.. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management's determination include the performance of the business, projections of future taxable income, and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Our future results of operations may be impacted by prolonged weakness in the economic environment which may result in an impairment of any goodwill recorded and/or other long-lived assets or the recording of a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We primarily rely on trademark filings and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property rights.. In an effort to protect our intellectual property, including our product data, customer information and information technology systems, through trademark filings and nondisclosure, confidentiality and trade secret agreements, we typically require our employees, consultants and others having access to this information or our technology to execute confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, and these agreements may be breached. A breach of confidentiality could adversely affect our business. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants and others have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our proprietary information or trade secrets could impair our competitive position and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Others may obtain patent protection for technologies that are important to our business, and as a result, our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. In response to patents of others, we may need to license the rights to use the technology patented by others, or in the event that a license cannot be obtained, design our systems around the patents of others. There can be no assurances as to our ability to obtain any such licenses or to design around the patents of others, and our inability to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We offer credit to our customers and, therefore, are subject to significant credit risk.. We sell our products to a large and diverse customer base. We finance a significant portion of such sales through trade credit, typically by providing 30-day payment terms. As a result, our business could be adversely affected in the event of a deterioration of the financial condition of our customers, resulting in the customers' inability to repay us. This risk may increase if there is a general economic downturn affecting a large number of our customers and in the event our customers do not adequately manage their business or properly disclose their financial condition. Also, several of our larger customers, including tier 1 carrier customers, require greater than 30-day payment terms which could increase our credit risk and decrease our operating cash flow.. We may explore additional growth through acquisitions.. As part of our growth strategy, we may continue to pursue the acquisition of companies that either complement or expand our existing business. As a result, we regularly evaluate potential acquisition opportunities, which may be material in size and scope. In addition to those risks to which our business and the acquired businesses are generally subject to, the acquisition of these businesses gives rise to transactional and transitional risks, and the risk that the anticipated benefits will not be realized.. 19. Table of Contents. Risks associated with the foreign suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our financial performance.. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. Since the onset of the weakness in the global economic environment in 2008, certain of our suppliers, particularly those in the far-east, have experienced financial difficulties and we believe it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require increased prices in order to fulfill their obligations. Changes in our relationships with suppliers or increases in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in delays, inefficiencies or our inability to market products. In addition, our profit margins would decrease if prices of purchased raw materials, component parts, or finished goods increase and we are unable to pass on those increases to our customers. The adoption or expansion of trade restrictions or the occurrence of trade wars could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operation.. We rely on independent shipping companies to deliver inventory to us and to ship products to customers.. We rely on arrangements with independent shipping companies, for the delivery of our products from vendors and to customers. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs and added security. This could adversely impact our selling, general and administrative expenses or lead to price increases to our customers which could decrease customer demand for our products.. Changes in accounting rules could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or a new interpretation of an existing policy could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions.. Changes in income tax and other regulatory legislation.. We operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and make plans for our structure and operations based upon existing laws and anticipated future changes in the law. When new legislation is enacted with minimal advance notice, or when new interpretations or applications of existing laws are made, we may need to implement changes in our policies or structure. We are susceptible to unanticipated changes in legislation, especially relating to income and other taxes, import/export laws, hazardous materials and other laws related to trade, accounting and business activities. Such changes in legislation may have an adverse effect on our business.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the statute originally named the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (the \"2017 Tax Act\") which enacts a broad range of changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and net operating losses, allows for the expensing of certain capital expenditures, and modifies the tax treatment of certain intercompany transactions. We continue to examine the impact this tax legislation may have on our business.. We may be subject to litigation.. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, antitrust, intellectual property and other issues. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or other adverse effects. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there. 20. Table of Contents. exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations for the period in which the ruling occurred or future periods.. We may incur product liability claims which could be costly and could harm our reputation.. The sale of our products subjects us to the risk of product liability claims. We have also been increasing our focus on sales of our proprietary Ventev® products and on providing an increased level of support services, including product and network designs, which also subjects us to risk of product liability and performance claim risk. We seek to allocate product liability risk to our vendors where available, but may not be successful in doing so. We currently maintain product liability insurance, but our product liability insurance coverage is subject to various coverage exclusions and limits and may not be obtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We do not know whether claims against us with respect to our products and services, if any, would be successfully defended or whether we might be successful in allocating that risk to others, or whether our insurance would be sufficient to cover liabilities resulting from such claims. Any claims successfully brought against us could adversely affect our financial condition, and if substantial and relating to our products or industry generally, could adversely affect our business as a whole.. Our expanding offering of private labeled products may have a negative impact on our relationship with our manufacturer partners.. Our product offering includes a growing number of our own proprietary products, which represented approximately 13% of our sales in fiscal year 2018. Our proprietary products often compete with other manufacturers' branded items that we offer. A manufacturer may choose to not sell its products to us, or may substantially increase the price of products to us, in response to the competition created by the sales of our proprietary branded products. Either could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance.. A significant portion of our product offerings, including a majority of our private label Ventev products and products we acquire from our vendors, are manufactured in foreign countries, making the price and availability of these products susceptible to international trade risks and other international conditions.. A significant portion of our products are manufactured in foreign countries, including Mexico and China.  The countries, specifically Mexico and China, in which many of our products currently are manufactured or may be manufactured in the future could become subject to trade restrictions imposed by the U.S., including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes and customs restrictions, which could increase the cost or reduce the supply of products available to us and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently, uncertainty has increased regarding tax and trade policies, border adjustments, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries, such as Mexico and China. This includes the possibility of imposing tariffs or penalties on products manufactured outside the United States, including the March 22, 2018 announcement of the United States government's institution of a 25% tariff on a range of products from China.  China thereafter announced a plan to impose tariffs on a wide range of American products in retaliation for such American tariffs. There is also a concern that the imposition of additional tariffs by the United States could result in the adoption of tariffs by other countries as well. Such tariffs on imports from foreign countries, as well as changes in tax and trade policies such as a border adjustment tax or disallowance of certain tax deductions for imported product, if enacted, could materially increase our manufacturing costs, the costs of our imported product or our income tax expense, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any tariffs by China or other foreign countries on imports of our products could also adversely affect our international e-commerce sales. Any increase in manufacturing costs, the cost of our products or limitation on the amount of products we are able to purchase, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. Legislative or regulatory action could be taken that could limit our ability to use certain foreign vendors to supply us with products.. Members of the U.S. Congress and certain regulatory agencies have raised concerns about American companies purchasing equipment and software from Chinese telecommunications companies, including concerns relating to alleged violations of intellectual property rights by Chinese companies and potential security risks posed by U.S. companies purchasing technical equipment and software from Chinese companies. In October 2012, the U.S. House of Representatives Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence issued a report asserting that network equipment manufactured by Chinese telecommunications companies poses a security threat to the United States and recommending the use of other network vendors.  The report also recommends that Congress consider adopting legislation to address these and other purported risks.  U.S. intelligence agencies have warned American citizens regarding the potential security risk associated with products  -  including cellular phones and other equipment  -  manufactured by Huawei Technology Co. and ZTE Corporation. While we do not currently include either of these companies among our vendors, any legislative or regulatory requirement that restricts us from purchasing or utilizing equipment or software from Chinese or other foreign companies with which we do or seek to do business, any determination by foreign companies upon which we rely to cease doing business in the United States, or any determination that we otherwise make that it is either necessary or advantageous for us to cease doing business with such foreign companies, could limit our product offerings, result in increased costs of goods and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others could harm our business and cause us to incur significant costs.. Our industry has increasingly been subject to patent and other intellectual property rights litigation. We expect this trend to continue and accelerate and expect that we may be required to defend against this type of litigation, not only asserted against our own intellectual property rights, but also against the intellectual property of products which we have purchased for resale. Further, we may be obligated to indemnify and defend our customers if the products or services we supply to them are alleged to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights. While we may be able to seek indemnification from our suppliers to protect our customers and us from such claims, there is no assurance that we will be successful in negotiating contractual terms with our suppliers to provide for such indemnification, or that we will otherwise be successful in obtaining such indemnification or that we will be protected from such claims. We may also be prohibited from marketing products, could be forced to market products without desirable features, or could incur substantial costs to defend legal actions, including where third parties claim that we or vendors who may or may not have indemnified us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. In recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from target companies. Even if we believe that such infringement claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to enter into costly settlements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products or services, which could affect our ability to compete effectively. If an infringement claim is successful, we may be required to pay damages or seek royalty or license arrangements, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Even if we have an agreement that indemnifies us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us.. We may be adversely affected by future laws or regulations.. We are subject to various U.S. Federal, state and local, and non-U.S. laws and regulations. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulations, or the application thereof. The introduction of new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, or the interpretations thereof, could increase the cost of doing business for us or our customers or vendors or restrict our actions and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. For example, annual disclosure and reporting requirements relating to the SEC's conflict minerals rule require us to perform a reasonable country of origin inquiry and conduct further due diligence measures on our supply chain. There are costs and uncertainties associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals that we may find to be used in our products.. 22. Table of Contents. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK. A significant portion of our voting stock is controlled by our executive officers, directors and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock.. Our executive officers, directors and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 49% of our outstanding common stock as of April 1, 2018. Robert B. Barnhill, Jr., our Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned approximately 20% of our outstanding common stock as of April 1, 2018. Should these shareholders decide to act together, they would have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and any significant corporate transaction requiring shareholder approval.. We may not be able to continue to pay dividends on our common stock in the future, which could impair the value of our common stock.. We have paid a quarterly dividend on our common stock since the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. Any future declaration of dividends remains subject to further determination from time to time by our Board of Directors. Our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend on our financial results, liquidity and financial condition. Under Delaware law, dividends to shareholders may be made only from the surplus of a company, or, in certain situations, from the net profits for the current fiscal year or the fiscal year before which the dividend is declared.  Our secured revolving credit facility restricts our ability to pay cash dividends upon a default, and when our borrowing availability is below $15.0 million, or in certain more limited circumstances $11.3 million, and contains other financial covenants and ratios that could restrict future dividend payments. There is no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends in the future, or if we are able to, that our Board of Directors will continue to declare dividends in the future, at current rates or at all.  If we discontinue or reduce the amount or frequency of dividends, the value of our common stock may be impaired.. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate, which could lead to volatility in our stock price.. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to do so in the future. As a result, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our revenue and operating results could negatively affect the trading price of our stock. In addition, our revenue and results of operations may, in the future, be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Factors that are likely to cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate include the risk factors discussed throughout this section.. Without approval of our Board of Directors, it may be difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company. This could affect the price of our common stock.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, including advance notice bylaws, certain arrangements to which we are party, and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL) may each make it more difficult for or may prevent a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our Board of Directors and management. We are afforded the protections of Section 203 of the DGCL, which will prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless Board of Director or shareholder approval were obtained. Some believe that the provisions described above, as well as any resulting delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board of Directors or management, could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our shareholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. We, on the other hand, believe that these provisions serve to protect our shareholders against abusive takeover tactics, to preserve and maximize the value of the Company for all shareholders, and to better ensure that each shareholder will be treated fairly in the event of an unsolicited offer to acquire the Company.. 23. Table of Contents. Potential uncertainty resulting from unsolicited acquisition proposals and related matters may adversely affect our business.. In the past we have received, and in the future, we may receive, unsolicited proposals to acquire our company or our assets. For example, in September 2010, the Board of Directors received an unsolicited non-binding proposal for the acquisition of all of our stock. The review and consideration of acquisition proposals and related matters could require the expenditure of significant management time and personnel resources. Such proposals may also create uncertainty for our employees, customers and vendors. Any such uncertainty could make it more difficult for us to retain key employees and hire new talent, and could cause our customers and vendors to not enter into new arrangements with us or to terminate existing arrangements. Additionally, we and members of our Board of Directors could be subject to future lawsuits related to unsolicited proposals to acquire us. Any such future lawsuits could become time consuming and expensive.. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation.. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Our earnings may not continue to grow at rates similar to the growth rates achieved in recent years and may fall short of either a prior fiscal period or investors' expectations. Most of our operating expenses, such as compensation expenses, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter."
