[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. An investment in our securities involves a degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or business could be harmed. In that case, the market price of our securities could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment.. Global economic conditions may materially and adversely affect our business.. Our business and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. A recurrence of recessionary conditions in the United States and elsewhere may lead to reduced industrial production which, in turn, may lead to lower demand and lower prices for oil and gas, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. We face the risks of doing business in a new and rapidly evolving market and may not be able to successfully address such risks and achieve acceptable levels of success or profits.. We have encountered and may continue to encounter the challenges, uncertainties and difficulties frequently experienced in new and rapidly evolving markets with respect to the business of TPWR, including:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimited operating experience;. 4. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstart-up costs for a new line of business; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlack of sufficient customers or loss of significant customers for the new line of business; and \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t\t  \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in managing potentially rapid growth.. The Trust’s oil and gas royalty revenue is dependent upon the market prices of oil and gas which fluctuate.. The oil and gas royalties which the Trust receives are dependent upon the market prices for oil and gas. The market prices for oil and gas are subject to national and international economic and political conditions and, in the past, have been subject to significant price fluctuations. Price fluctuations for oil and gas have been particularly volatile in recent years. Although the Trust’s oil and gas royalties benefited from the substantial increases in the market prices for oil and gas in past years, when lower market prices for oil and gas occur, they will have an adverse effect on our oil and gas royalty revenues.. The Trust is not an oil and gas producer. Its revenues from oil and gas royalties are subject to the actions of others.. The Trust is not an oil and gas producer. Its oil and gas income is derived from perpetual non-participating oil and gas royalty interests which it has retained. As oil and gas wells age, the costs of production may increase and their capacity may decline absent additional investment. However, the owners and operators of the oil and gas wells make all decisions as to investments in, and production from, those wells and the Trust’s royalties will be dependent upon decisions made by those operators, among other factors. The Railroad Commission of the State of Texas sets authorized production levels for pro-rated wells by regulation. The monthly percentage of allowable production has averaged 100% in recent years. However, in the past, the Trust’s income from oil and gas royalties has been limited by the production levels authorized by the Railroad Commission and we cannot assure you that they may not be so limited in the future.. Our revenues from the sale of land are subject to substantial fluctuation. We are a passive seller of land and land sales are subject to many factors that are beyond our control.. Land sales vary widely from year to year and quarter to quarter. The total dollar amount, the average price per acre, and the number of acres sold in any one year or quarter should not be assumed to be indicative of future land sales. The Trust is a passive seller of land and does not actively solicit sales of land. The demand for, and the sale price of, any particular tract of the Trust’s land is influenced by many factors, including the national and local economies, rate of oil and gas well development by operators, the rate of residential and commercial development in nearby areas, livestock carrying capacity and the condition of the local agricultural industry, which itself is influenced by range conditions and prices for livestock and agricultural products. Approximately 97% of the Trust’s land is classified as ranch land and intermingled with parcels owned by third parties to form ranching units. The Trust’s ability to sell ranch land is, therefore, largely dependent on the actions of adjoining landowners.. The impact of government regulation on TPWR could adversely affect our business.. The business of TPWR is subject to applicable state and federal laws and regulations, including laws and regulations on environmental and safety matters. These laws and regulations may increase the costs and timing of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning water wells and treatment facilities. TPWR’s business could be affected by problems, slowdowns or other stoppages to operations of providing water treatment critical to the success of TPWR.. The Trust’s remaining holdings of land in metropolitan areas are limited.. The sale price of land suitable for development in metropolitan areas is generally substantially higher than the price of land in rural or ranching areas. The Trust’s remaining holdings of land suitable for development in metropolitan areas are limited.. 5. The loss of key members of our management team, or difficulty attracting and retaining experienced technical personnel, could reduce our competitiveness and prospects for future success.. The successful implementation of our strategies and handling of other issues integral to our future success will depend, in part, on our experienced management team, including with respect to the business of TPWR. The loss of key members of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. If we cannot retain our experienced personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed.. If the liability of holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares were to be found to be governed by the laws of Texas, holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares might be held to have personal liability for claims against the Trust, to the extent such claims exceeded the assets of the Trust.. The Declaration of Trust, which established the Trust, was executed and delivered in New York. Under the laws of the State of New York, the holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares are not subject to any personal liability for the acts or obligations of the Trust. The assets of the Trust are located in Texas. Under the laws of the State of Texas, the holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares may be held personally liable with respect to claims against the Trust, but only after the assets of the Trust first have been exhausted. Thus, if a court were to hold that the liability of holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares for obligations is governed by the laws of Texas, rather than New York, it is possible that holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares might be held to have personal liability for claims against the Trust to the extent such claims exceeded all of the Trust’s assets.. The Trustees are not subject to annual election and, as a result, the ability of the holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares to influence the policies of the Trust may be limited.. Directors of a corporation are generally subject to election at each annual meeting of stockholders or, in the case of staggered boards, at regular intervals. Under the Declaration of Trust, however, the Trust is not required to hold annual meetings of holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares to elect Trustees and Trustees generally hold office until their death, resignation or disqualification. As a result, the ability of holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares to effect changes in the Board of Trustees, and the policies of the Trust, is significantly more limited than that of the stockholders of a corporation.. Our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of our results of operations for a full year.. Sales of land fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Revenues from oil and gas royalties may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon market prices for oil and gas and production decisions made by the operators. Water sales and royalties may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As a result, the results of our operations for any particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for a full year."                                                                          
