[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to risk. The following discussion, along with management's discussion and analysis and our financial statements and footnotes, sets forth the most significant risks and uncertainties that we believe could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that management currently deems immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There is no assurance that this discussion covers all potential risks that we face. The occurrence of the described risks could cause our results to differ materially from those described in our forward-looking statements included elsewhere in this report or in our other filings with the SEC and could have a material adverse impact on our business or results of operations.. Risk Factors Associated With Our Business. We must effectively manage our credit risk.    The risk of non-payment of loans is inherent in commercial banking.  Increased credit risk may result from many factors, including:. • Adverse changes in local, U.S. and global economic and industry conditions;. • Declines in the value of collateral, including asset values that are directly or indirectly related to external factors such as commodity prices, real estate values or interest rates;. • Concentrations of credit associated with specific loan categories, industries or collateral types; and. • Exposures to individual borrowers and to groups of entities that may be affiliated on some basis that individually and/or collectively represent a larger percentage of our total loans or capital than might be considered common at other banks of similar size.. We rely heavily on information provided by third parties when originating and monitoring loans.  If this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and we do not detect such misrepresentations, the credit risk associated with the transaction may be increased.  Although we attempt to manage our credit risk by carefully monitoring the concentration of our loans within specific loan categories and industries and through prudent loan approval and monitoring practices in all categories of our lending, we cannot assure you that our approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these lending risks. Our significant number of large credit relationships (above $20 million) could exacerbate credit problems precipitated by a regional or national economic downturn. Competitive pressures could erode underwriting standards leading to a decline in general credit quality and increases in credit defaults and non-performing asset levels.  If our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures are not able to adequately adapt to changes in economic, competitive or other conditions that affect customers and the quality of the loan portfolio, we may incur increased losses that could adversely affect our financial results and lead to increased regulatory scrutiny, restrictions on our lending activity or financial penalties.. A significant portion of our assets consists of commercial loans.   We generally invest a greater proportion of our assets in commercial loans to business customers than other banking institutions of our size, and our business plan calls for continued efforts to increase our assets invested in these loans. At December 31, 2017, approximately 45% of our LHI portfolio was comprised of commercial loans. Commercial loans may involve a higher degree of credit risk than other types of loans due, in part, to their larger average size, the effects of changing economic conditions on the businesses of our commercial loan customers, the dependence of borrowers on operating cash flow to service debt and our reliance upon collateral which may not be readily marketable. Due to the greater proportion of these commercial loans in our portfolio and because the balances of these loans are, on average, larger than other categories of loans, losses incurred on a relatively small number of commercial loans could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. A significant portion of our loans are secured by commercial and residential real estate.    At December 31, 2017, approximately 54% of our loans held for investment portfolio was comprised of loans with real estate as the primary component of collateral. Our real estate lending activities, and our exposure to fluctuations in real estate collateral values, are significant and expected to increase as our assets increase. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located, in response to factors such as changes in the economic health of industries heavily concentrated in a particular area and in response to changes in market interest rates, which influence capitalization rates used to value revenue-generating commercial real estate. If the value of real estate serving as collateral for our loans declines materially, a significant part of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized and losses incurred upon borrower defaults would increase. Conditions in certain segments of the real estate industry, including homebuilding, lot development and mortgage lending, may have an effect on values of real estate pledged as collateral for our loans. The inability of purchasers of real estate, including residential real estate, to obtain financing may weaken the financial condition of our borrowers who are dependent on the sale or refinancing of property to repay their loans. Changes in the economic health of certain industries can have a significant impact on other sectors or industries which are directly or indirectly associated with those industries, and may impact the value of real estate in areas where such industries are concentrated.. 13. Table of Contents. Our future profitability depends, to a significant extent, upon our middle market business customers.    Our future profitability depends, to a significant extent, upon revenue we receive from middle market business customers, and their ability to continue to meet their loan obligations. Adverse economic conditions or other factors affecting this market segment, and our failure to timely identify and react to unexpected economic downturns, may have a greater adverse effect on us than on other financial institutions that have a more diversified customer base.  Additionally, our inability to grow our middle market business customer base in a highly competitive market could affect our future growth and profitability.. The full impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") on us and our customers is unknown at present, creating uncertainty and risk related to our customers' future demand for credit and our future results. Increased economic activity expected to result from the decrease in tax rates on businesses generally could spur additional economic activity that would encourage additional borrowing. At the same time, some customers may elect to use their additional cash flow from lower taxes to fund their existing levels of activity, decreasing borrowing needs. The elimination of the federal income tax deductibility of business interest expense for a significant number of our customers effectively increases the cost of borrowing and makes equity or hybrid funding relatively more attractive. This could have a long-term negative impact on business customer borrowing. We are anticipating a significant increase in our after-tax net income available to stockholders in 2018 and future years as a result of the decrease in our effective tax rate. Some or all of this benefit could be lost to the extent that the banks and financial services companies we compete with elect to lower interest rates and fees and we are forced to respond in order to remain competitive. There is no assurance that presently anticipated benefits of the Tax Act for the Company will be realized.. We must maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses.    Our experience in the banking industry indicates that some portion of our loans will become delinquent, and some may only be partially repaid or may never be repaid at all. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense each quarter, that is consistent with management's assessment of the collectability of the loan portfolio in light of the amount of loans committed and outstanding and current economic conditions and market trends. When specific loan losses are identified, the amount of the expected loss is removed, or charged-off, from the allowance.  Our methodology for establishing the appropriateness of the allowance for loan losses depends on our subjective application of risk grades as indicators of each borrower's ability to repay specific loans, together with our assessment of how actual or projected changes in competitor underwriting practices, competition for borrowers and depositors and other conditions in our markets are likely to impact improvement or deterioration in the collectability of our loans as compared to our historical experience.. Our business model makes our Bank more vulnerable to changes in underlying business credit quality than other banks with which we compete.  We have a substantially larger percentage of commercial, real estate and other categories of business loans relative to total assets than most other banks in our market and our individual loans are generally larger as a percentage of our total earning assets than other banks. While we have substantially increased our liquidity over the past three years, these funds are invested in low-yielding deposits with federal agencies and other financial institutions. A substantially smaller portion of our assets consists of securities and other earning asset categories that can be less vulnerable to changes in local, regional or industry-specific economic trends, causing our potential for credit losses to be more severe than other banks.  Our business model has focused on growth in various loan categories that can be more sensitive to changes in economic trends.  We believe our ability to maintain above-peer rates of growth in commercial loans is dependent on maintaining above-peer credit quality metrics.  The failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our growth and profitability.. If our assessment of inherent losses is inaccurate, or economic and market conditions or our borrowers' financial performance experience material unanticipated changes, the allowance may become inadequate, requiring larger provisions for loan losses that can materially decrease our earnings. Certain of our loans individually represent a significant percentage of our total allowance for loan losses.  Adverse collection experience in a relatively small number of these loans could require an increase in the provision for loan losses. Federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and, based on their judgments, which may be different than ours, may require us to change classifications or grades of loans, increase the allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or in the amount of loan charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is concentrated in Texas; our Energy industry exposure could adversely affect our performance.    A majority of our customers are located in Texas. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be strongly affected by any prolonged period of economic recession or other adverse business, economic or regulatory conditions affecting Texas businesses and financial institutions. Although more than 50% of our loan exposure is outside of Texas and more than 50% of our deposits are sourced outside of Texas, our Texas concentration remains significant compared to other peer banks. While the Texas economy is more diversified than in the 1980's, the energy sector continues to play an important role. At December 31, 2017 our outstanding energy loans represented 6% of total loans. Our energy loans consist primarily of producing reserve-based loans to exploration and production companies with a smaller portion of our loan balances attributable to royalty owners, midstream operators, saltwater disposal and other service companies whose businesses primarily relate to production, not exploration and development, of oil and gas. These businesses have been significantly affected by volatility in oil and natural gas prices and material declines in the level of drilling and production activity in Texas and in other areas of the United States.. 14. Table of Contents. Adverse developments in the energy sector in 2015 and 2016 have had and may continue to have significant spillover effects on the Texas economy, including adverse effects on commercial and residential real estate values and the general level of economic activity. While oil and natural gas prices have stabilized during 2017, we will continue to carefully monitor the impact of any volatility in oil and natural gas prices on our loan portfolio. We experienced an increase in non-performing assets and higher charge-offs primarily related to energy loans during 2016, and while those levels have moderated in 2017, they still remain elevated compared to the overall loan portfolio. There is no assurance that we will not be materially adversely impacted by the direct and indirect effects of current and future conditions in the energy industry in Texas and nationally.. Our business faces unpredictable economic and business conditions.    Our business is directly impacted by general economic and business conditions in Texas, the United States and internationally. The credit quality of our loan portfolio necessarily reflects, among other things, the general economic conditions in the areas in which we and our customers conduct our respective businesses. Our continued financial success can be affected by other factors that are beyond our control, including:. • national, regional and local economic conditions;. • the value of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the currencies of other advanced and emerging market countries;. • the performance of both domestic and international equity and debt markets and valuation of securities represented and traded on recognized domestic and international exchanges;. • fluctuations in the value of commodities including but not limited to petroleum and natural gas;. • general economic consequences of international conditions, such as weakness in European sovereign debt and foreign currencies and the impact of that weakness on the US and global economies;. • legislative and regulatory changes impacting our industry;. • the financial health of our customers and economic conditions affecting them and the value of our collateral, including effects from continued price volatility of oil and gas and other commodities;. • the incidence of fraud, illegal payments, security breaches and other illegal acts among or impacting our Bank and our customers;. • structural changes in the markets for origination, sale and servicing of residential mortgages;. • changes in governmental economic and regulatory policies generally, including the extent and timing of intervention in credit markets by the Federal Reserve Board or withdrawal from that intervention;. • changes in the availability of liquidity at a systemic level; and. • material inflation or deflation.. Substantial deterioration in any of the foregoing conditions can have a material adverse effect on our prospects and our results of operations and financial condition.  There is no assurance that we will be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or our profitability. Our Bank's customer base is primarily commercial in nature, and our Bank does not have a significant retail branch network or retail consumer deposit base. In periods of economic downturn, business and commercial deposits may be more volatile than traditional retail consumer deposits.  As a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected to a greater degree by these uncertainties than our competitors who have a larger retail customer base.. Our growth plans are dependent on the availability of capital and funding.    Our historical ability to raise capital through the sale of capital stock and debt securities may be affected by economic and market conditions or regulatory changes that are beyond our control. Adverse changes in our operating performance or financial condition could make raising additional capital difficult or more expensive or limit our access to customary sources of funding, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank or the Federal Home Loan Bank.  Unexpected changes in requirements for regulatory capital resulting from regulatory actions or the results of our Dodd-Frank Act stress testing could require us to raise capital at a time, and at a price, that might be unfavorable, or could require that we forego continuing growth or reduce our current loan portfolio.  We cannot offer assurance that capital and funding will be available to us in the future, in needed amounts, upon acceptable terms or at all.  Our efforts to raise capital could require the issuance of securities at times and with maturities, conditions and rates that are disadvantageous, and which could have a dilutive impact on our current stockholders.  Factors that could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital include conditions in the capital markets, our financial performance, our credit ratings, regulatory actions and general economic conditions.  Increases in our cost of capital, including dilution and increased interest or dividend requirements, could have a direct adverse impact on our operating performance and our ability to achieve our growth objectives. Trust preferred securities are no longer viable as a source of new long-term debt capital as a result of regulatory changes. The treatment of our existing trust preferred securities as capital may be subject to further regulatory change prior to their maturity, which could require the Company to seek additional capital.. We must effectively manage our liquidity risk.    Our Bank requires liquidity in the form of available funds to meet its deposit, debt and other obligations as they come due, borrower requests to draw on committed credit facilities as well as unexpected. 15. Table of Contents. demands for cash payments. While we are not subject to Basel III liquidity regulations, the adequacy of our liquidity is a matter of regulatory interest given the significant portion of our balance sheet represented by loans as opposed to securities and other more marketable investments. Our Bank's principal source of funding consists of customer deposits. We also rely on the availability of the mortgage secondary market provided by Ginnie Mae and the GSEs to support the liquidity of our residential mortgage assets. A substantial majority of our Bank's liabilities consist of demand, savings, interest checking and money market deposits, which are payable on demand or upon relatively short notice.  By comparison, a substantial portion of our assets are loans, most of which, excluding our mortgage finance loans and mortgage loans held for sale, cannot be collected or sold in so short a time frame, creating the potential for an imbalance in the availability of liquid assets to satisfy depositors and loan funding requirements.. We hold smaller balances of marketable securities than many of our competitors, limiting our ability to increase our liquidity by completing market sales of these assets.  An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities and loans and other sources, or an inability to access the capital markets, could have a substantial negative effect on our Bank's liquidity. We actively manage our available sources of funds to meet our expected needs under normal and financially stressed conditions, but there is no assurance that our Bank will be able to make new loans, meet ongoing funding commitments to borrowers and replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary under all possible circumstances. Our Bank's ability to obtain funding could be impaired by factors beyond its control, such as disruptions in financial markets, negative expectations regarding the financial services industry generally or in our markets or negative perceptions of our Bank, including our credit ratings.. Our mortgage finance business has experienced, and will likely continue to experience, highly variable usage of our funding capacity resulting from seasonal demands for credit, surges in consumer demand driven by changes in interest rates and month-end \"spikes\" of residential mortgage closings. These spikes could also result in our Bank having capital ratios that are below internally targeted levels or even levels that could cause our Bank to not be well capitalized and could affect liquidity levels.  At the same time managing this risk by declining to respond fully to the needs of our customers could severely impact our business. We have responded to these variable funding demands by, among other things, increasing the extent of participations sold in our mortgage loan interests, as needed, and by maintaining a substantial borrowing relationship with the Federal Home Loan Bank. Our mortgage finance customers have in recent periods provided significant low-cost deposit balances associated with the borrower escrow accounts created at the time certain mortgage loans are funded, which have benefitted our liquidity and net interest margin. In a rising rate environment or in response to competitive pressures, we may have to pay interest on some or all of these accounts as regulations allow.  Individual escrow account balances also experience significant variability monthly as principal and interest payments, as well as ad valorem taxes and insurance premiums, are paid periodically. While the short average holding period of our mortgage interests of approximately 20 days will allow us, if necessitated by a funding shortfall, to rapidly decrease the size of the portfolio and its associated funding requirements, any such action might significantly damage our business and important mortgage finance relationships.. Our Bank sources a significant volume of its demand deposits from financial services companies, mortgage finance customers and other commercial sources, resulting in a larger percentage of large deposits and a smaller number of sources of deposits than would be typical of other banks in our markets, creating concentrations of deposits that carry a greater risk of unexpected material withdrawals.  In recent periods over half of our total deposits have been attributable to customers whose balances exceed the $250,000 FDIC insurance limit. Many of these customers actively monitor our financial condition and results of operations and could withdraw their deposits quickly upon the occurrence of a material adverse development affecting our Bank or their businesses. Significant deterioration in our credit quality or a downgrade in our credit ratings could affect funding sources such as financial institutions and broker dealers, as well as our borrowing capacity at the Federal Home Loan Bank.  In response to this risk we have substantially increased our liquidity over the past three years, but there is no assurance that we will maintain or have access to sufficient liquidity to fully mitigate this risk.. One potential source of liquidity for our Bank consists of \"brokered deposits\" arranged by brokers acting as intermediaries, typically larger money-center financial institutions.  We receive deposits provided by certain of our customers in connection with our delivery of other financial services to them or their customers which are subject to regulatory classification as \"brokered deposits\" even though we consider these to be relationship deposits and they are not subject to the typical risks or market pricing associated with conventional brokered deposits.. If we do not maintain our regulatory capital above the level required to be well capitalized we would be required to obtain FDIC consent for us to continue to accept deposits classified as brokered deposits, and there can be no assurance that the FDIC would consent under any circumstances. We could also be required to suspend or eliminate deposit gathering from any source classified as \"brokered\" deposits.  The FDIC can change the definition of brokered deposits or extend the classification to deposits not currently classified as brokered deposits.  These non-traditional deposits are subject to greater operational and reputational risk of unexpected withdrawal than traditional demand and time deposits, particularly those provided by consumers. A significant decrease in our balances of relationship brokered deposits could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below for further discussion of our liquidity.. 16. Table of Contents. We, our vendors and customers must effectively manage our information systems risk.    We, our vendors and customers all rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our respective businesses and work effectively together. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our ability to compete successfully depends in part upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands.  Many of our larger competitors invest substantially greater resources in technological capabilities than we do. We may not be able to effectively protect, develop and manage mission critical systems and IT infrastructure to support strategic business initiatives, which could impair our ability to achieve financial, operational, compliance and strategic objectives and negatively affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our communications and information systems and those of our vendors and customers remain vulnerable to unexpected disruptions, failures and cyber-attacks. The frequency and intensity of such attacks is escalating.  Failures or interruptions of these systems could impair our ability to serve our customers and to operate our business and could damage our reputation, result in a loss of business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or enforcement or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.  While we have developed extensive recovery plans, we cannot assure that those plans will be effective to prevent adverse effects upon us and our customers resulting from system failures.. We collect and store sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our customers and employees and in the ordinary course of business must allow certain of our vendors access to that data. Computer break-ins of our systems or our vendors' or customers' systems, thefts of data and other breaches and criminal activity may result in significant costs to respond, liability for customer losses if we or our vendors are at fault, damage to our customer relationships, regulatory scrutiny and enforcement and loss of future business opportunities due to reputational damage. Breaches can be perpetrated by unknown third parties, but could also be facilitated by employees either inadvertently or by consciously attempting to create disruption or certain acts of fraud. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, will continue to implement information security technology solutions and establish operational procedures to protect sensitive data, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective. We advise and provide training to our customers and evaluate and impose security requirements on our vendors regarding protection of their respective information systems, but there is no assurance that these actions will have the intended positive effects or will be effective to prevent losses. In some cases we may elect to contribute to the cost of responding to cybercrime against our customers, even when we are not at fault, in order to maintain valuable customer relationships. Successful cyber-attacks on our Bank, vendors or customers may affect the reputation of our Bank, and failure to meet customer expectations could have a material impact on our ability to attract and retain deposits as a primary source of funding.. Our operations rely extensively on a broad range of external vendors.    We rely on certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations, particularly in the areas of operations, treasury management systems, information technology and security. This reliance exposes us to the risk that these vendors will not perform as required by our agreements as well as risks resulting from disruptions in communications with our vendors, cyber-attacks and security breaches at our vendors, failure of a vendor to provide services for other reasons and poor performance of services.  An external vendor's failure to perform in any of these areas could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as cause reputation damage if our customers are affected by the failure. External vendors who must have access to our information systems in order to provide their services have been identified as significant sources of information technology security risk. While we have implemented an active program of oversight to address this risk, there can be no assurance that we will not experience material security breaches associated with our vendors.. We must effectively manage our interest rate risk.    Our profitability is dependent to a large extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income paid to us on our loans and investments and the interest we pay to third parties such as our depositors, lenders and debtholders. Changes in interest rates can impact our profits and the fair values of certain of our assets and liabilities.  Models that we use to forecast and plan for the impact of rising and falling interest rates may be incorrect or fail to consider the impact of competition and other conditions affecting our loans and deposits.. The banking industry has experienced a prolonged period of unusually low interest rates, which have had an adverse effect on our earnings by reducing yields on loans and other earning assets. The Federal Reserve began raising rates in late 2015 and 2016 and their benchmark rate and market rates continued to increase during 2017, contributing to some improvement in our net interest income. However there is substantial uncertainty regarding the extent to which interest rates may increase in 2018 and future periods and what the future effects of any such increases will be. There is no assurance that recent expectations of increasing interest rates in future periods will be realized. Increases in market interest rates can have negative impacts on our business, including reducing our customers' desire to borrow money from us or adversely affecting their ability to repay their outstanding loans by increasing their debt service obligations through the periodic reset of adjustable interest rate loans. If our borrowers' ability to pay their loans is impaired by increasing interest payment obligations, our level of non-performing assets would increase, producing an adverse effect on operating results.  Asset values, especially commercial real estate as collateral, securities or other fixed rate earning assets, can decline significantly with relatively minor changes in interest rates.. 17. Table of Contents. Increases in interest rates and economic conditions affecting consumer demand for housing can have a material impact on the volume of mortgage originations and refinancings, adversely affecting the profitability of our mortgage finance business.  Interest rate risk can also result from mismatches between the dollar amounts of repricing or maturing assets and liabilities and from mismatches in the timing and rates at which our assets and liabilities reprice. We actively monitor and manage the balances of our maturing and repricing assets and liabilities to reduce the adverse impact of changes in interest rates, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid material adverse effects on our net interest margin in all market conditions.. Federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed in 2011 by the Dodd-Frank Act.  This change has had limited impact to date due to the excess of commercial liquidity and the low interest rate environment. Rising interest rates may result in our interest expense increasing, with a commensurate adverse effect on our net interest income, particularly if we must pay interest on demand deposits to attract or retain customer deposits. As interest rates increase, deposit costs will continue to increase, which could adversely impact our net interest income. In a rising rate environment, competition for cost-effective deposits can be expected to increase making it more costly for us to fund loan growth. There can be no assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected in the future by increases in interest rates.. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.     We, as a bank holding company and financial holding company, and our Bank as a national bank, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, and the potential for regulatory enforcement actions, that impact our business on a daily basis. See the discussion above at Business - Regulation and Supervision. These regulations affect our lending practices, permissible products and services and their terms and conditions, customer relationships, capital structure, investment practices, accounting, financial reporting, operations and our ability to grow, among other things. These regulations also impose obligations to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identities of our customers.. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Recent material changes in regulation and requirements imposed on financial institutions, such as the Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel III Accord, result in additional costs, impose more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and increase the ability of non-bank financial services providers to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Such changes could result in new regulatory obligations which could prove difficult, expensive or competitively impractical to comply with if not equally imposed upon non-bank financial services providers with whom we compete.. The Dodd-Frank Act has not yet been fully implemented and there are many additional regulations called for by the Act that have not been proposed, or if proposed, have not been adopted. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business strategies is not completely known at this time as there is uncertainty related to regulations still pending. The 2016 national election results and more recent statements and actions by the administration and members of Congress have contributed to continuing uncertainty regarding future implementation and enforcement of the Dodd-Frank Act and other financial sector regulatory requirements. While these developments have contributed to increased market valuations of a broad range of financial services companies, including the Company, there is no assurance that any of the anticipated changes will be implemented or that expected benefits to our future financial performance will be realized.. We receive inquiries from our regulators from time to time regarding, among other things, lending practices, reserve methodology, compliance with changing regulations and interpretations, our management of interest rate, liquidity, capital and operational risk, enterprise risk management, regulatory and financial accounting practices and policies and related matters, which can divert management's time and attention from focusing on our business. We have significantly increased the amount of management time and expense devoted to developing the infrastructure to support our expanding compliance obligations, which can pose significant regulatory enforcement, financial and reputational risks if not appropriately addressed.. We continue to respond to stress testing requirements contained in the Dodd-Frank Act (\"DFAST\") to evaluate the adequacy of our capital and liquidity planning. Uncertainties regarding how the financial models of our business created pursuant to this requirement will respond to the regulatory scenarios issued annually, and how our regulators will evaluate our report of the results obtained, subject us to increased regulatory risk in future years as the standards for DFAST and regulatory use of our reported data continue to evolve. Any change to our practices or policies requested or required by our regulators, or any changes in interpretation of regulatory policy applicable to our businesses, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have increased our capital and liquidity and expanded our regulatory compliance staffing and systems in recent years in order to address regulatory expectations for high-growth institutions, which reduced our net interest margin and earnings in those periods.  There is no assurance that our financial performance in future years will not be similarly burdened.. We expend substantial effort and incur costs to maintain and improve our systems, controls, accounting, operations, information security, compliance, audit effectiveness, analytical capabilities, staffing and training in order to satisfy regulatory requirements.  We cannot offer assurance that these efforts will be accepted by our regulators as satisfying the legal and. 18. Table of Contents. regulatory requirements applicable to us. Failure to comply with relevant laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.. The FDIC has imposed higher general and special assessments on deposits or assets based on general industry conditions and as a result of changes in specific programs, as well as qualitative adjustments for individual institutions based on their risk characteristics that cannot be predicted with any certainty.  There is no restriction on the amount by which the FDIC may increase deposit and asset assessments in the future. Increases in FDIC assessments, fees and taxes have adversely affected our earnings and may continue to do so in the future.. We must effectively execute our business strategy in order to continue our asset and earnings growth.    Our core strategy is to develop our business principally through organic growth. Our prospects for continued growth must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies seeking to realize significant growth. In order to execute our growth strategy successfully, we must, among other things:. • continue to identify and expand into suitable markets and lines of business, in Texas, regionally and nationally;. • develop new products and services and execute our full range of products and services more efficiently and effectively;. • attract and retain qualified bankers in each of our targeted markets to build our customer base;. • respond to market opportunities promptly and nimbly while balancing the demands of risk management and compliance with regulatory requirements;. • expand our loan portfolio in an intensely competitive environment while maintaining credit quality;. • attract sufficient deposits and capital to fund our anticipated loan growth and satisfy regulatory requirements;. • control expenses; and. • acquire and maintain sufficient qualified staffing and information technology and operational infrastructure to support growth and compliance with increasing and changing regulatory requirements.. Failure to effectively execute our business strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations.. We must be effective in developing and executing new lines of business and new products and services while managing associated risks.    Our business strategy requires that we develop and grow new lines of business and offer new products and services within existing lines of business in order to compete successfully in customer acquisition and retention and realize our growth objectives for both loans and deposits. Substantial costs, risks and uncertainties are associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. Developing and marketing new activities requires that we invest significant time and resources before revenues and profits can be realized. Timetables for the development and launch of new activities may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, receipt of necessary licenses or permits, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also adversely impact the successful execution of new activities. New activities necessarily entail additional risks and may present additional risks to the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. All service offerings, including current offerings and new activities, may become more risky due to changes in economic, competitive and market conditions beyond our control. Our regulators could determine that our risk management practices are not adequate or our capital levels are not sufficiently in excess of well-capitalized levels and take action to restrain our growth. Failure to successfully manage these risks, generally and to the satisfaction of our regulators, in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We must continue to attract, retain and develop key personnel.    Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract, develop and retain experienced bankers in each of our markets as well as managers in operational areas, compliance and other support areas  to build and maintain the infrastructure and controls required to support continuing loan and deposit growth.  Competition for the best people in our industry can be intense, and there is no assurance that we will continue to have the same level of success in this effort that has supported our historical results.  Factors that affect our ability to attract, develop  and retain key employees include our compensation and benefits programs, our profitability, our ability to establish appropriate succession plans for key talent, our reputation for rewarding and promoting qualified employees and market competition for employees with certain skills, including information systems development and security. The cost of employee compensation is a significant portion of our operating expenses and can materially impact our results of operations. The unanticipated loss of the services of key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain key employees, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining them.. 19. Table of Contents. We compete with many banks and other financial service providers.    Competition among providers of financial services in our markets, in Texas, regionally and nationally, is intense. We compete with other financial and bank holding companies, state and national commercial banks, savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, credit unions, securities brokerages, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, money market mutual funds, asset-based non-bank lenders, government sponsored or subsidized lenders and other financial services providers. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources, lending limits and technological resources and larger branch networks than we do, and are able to offer a broader range of products and services than we can, including systems and services that could protect customers from cyber threats. Many competitors offer lower interest rates and more liberal loan terms that appeal to borrowers but adversely affect net interest margin and assurance of repayment. There are early indications that one effect of the Tax Act may be to allow financial services companies to effectively spend their tax savings by offering lower interest rates and fees to retain customers or generate growth. If this trend expands it could have a significant negative impact on our net interest margin and profitability. We are increasingly faced with competition in many of our products and services by non-bank providers who may have competitive advantages of size, access to potential customers and fewer regulatory requirements. Failure to compete effectively for deposit, loan and other banking customers in our markets could cause us to lose market share, slow or reverse our growth rate or suffer adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our mortgage correspondent aggregation business subjects us to additional risks.    We launched our mortgage correspondent aggregation business (\"MCA\"), a correspondent lending program that complements our mortgage warehouse lending business, in 2015. Volatility in the mortgage industry has caused uncertainty related to the pricing of the mortgage loans that we seek to purchase, as well as uncertainty in the pricing of those loans when they are sold or securitized. Similar uncertainty exists with volatility in the value of mortgage servicing rights (\"MSRs\") on our balance sheet. This volatility may cause the actual returns on mortgage sales or securitization transactions to be less than anticipated, which could adversely affect our overall loans held for sale volumes. Fluctuations in the value of MSRs that we hold on our balance sheet could require that we recognize impairments in the value of such assets and/or actual losses on the disposition of such assets. Additionally, non-bank competitors may have a pricing advantage as they are not subject to the same capital maintenance requirements relative to mortgage loans and MSRs as our Bank.. Our MCA business subjects us to additional interest rate risk and price risk, which may have an adverse effect on our business. The persistent low interest rate environment and expectation of future higher rates has in certain cases resulted in an increase in the value of MSRs, causing other market participants and competitors who are planning to hold MSRs for a longer term to be more aggressive in their pricing of the underlying loan purchases than a participant like our Bank that does not plan to hold MSRs on a long-term basis. While we believe market and competitive conditions may improve in the future, a prolonged low interest rate environment could adversely affect the economics of our MCA business over a longer period of time. Conversely, an environment of rising interest rates could have a significant effect on loan volumes in our MCA business if refinancing and home purchase activities are reduced.. We have entered into loan purchase commitments and forward sales commitments in connection with the MCA business. While we believe that our hedging strategies will be successful in mitigating our exposure to interest rate risk associated with the purchase of mortgage loans held for sale, no hedging strategy can completely protect us. Poorly designed strategies, improperly executed transactions, or inaccurate assumptions regarding future interest rates or market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be required to hold or repurchase mortgage loans or reimburse investors as a result of breaches in contractual representations and warranties under the agreements pursuant to which we purchase and sell mortgage loans. While our agreements with the originators and sellers of mortgage loans provide us with legal recourse against them that may allow us to recover some or all of our losses, these companies are frequently not financially capable of paying large amounts of damages and as a result we can offer no assurance that we will not bear all of the risk of loss.. We may incur other costs and losses as a result of actual or alleged violations of regulations related to the origination and purchase of residential mortgage loans. The origination of residential mortgage loans is governed by a variety of federal and state laws and regulations, which are frequently changing.  We sell residential mortgage loans that we have purchased or that we have originated to various parties, including Ginnie Mae and GSEs such as Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and other financial institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization.  We may also pool FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgage loans which back securities issued by Ginnie Mae. Our accrued mortgage repurchase liability represents management's best estimate of the probable loss that we may expect to incur for the representations and warranties in the contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans, but there is no assurance that our losses will not materially exceed such amounts.. Our accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on management judgment, which may prove inadequate or be adversely impacted by inaccurate assumptions or models.    The processes we use to estimate probable credit losses for purposes of establishing the allowance for loan losses and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, certain of our liquidity and capital planning tools, as well as the processes we use to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other. 20. Table of Contents. market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, all depend upon management's judgment. Management's judgment and the data relied upon by management may be based on assumptions that prove to be inaccurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. As a bank with total assets exceeding $10 billion we have become subject to the stress testing requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and our forecasting and modeling requirements have increased and become more complex. Even if the relevant factual assumptions determined by management are accurate, our decisions may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in the design or use of analytical tools by management.  Any such failures in our processes for producing accounting estimates and managing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our risk management strategies and processes may not be effective; our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.    We continue to invest in the development of risk management techniques, strategies, assessment methods and related controls and monitoring approaches on an ongoing basis. However, these risk management strategies and processes may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk. Any failures in our risk management strategies and processes to accurately identify, quantify and monitor our risk exposure could limit our ability to effectively manage our risks. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and management judgment and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We must effectively manage our counterparty risk.    Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. Our Bank has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose our Bank to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our Bank's credit risk may be increased when the collateral it is entitled to cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of its credit or derivative exposure. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is susceptible to fraud.    Our business exposes us to fraud risk from our loan and deposit customers, the parties they do business with, as well as from our employees, contractors and vendors. We rely on financial and other data from new and existing customers which could turn out to be fraudulent when accepting such customers, executing their financial transactions and making and purchasing loans and other financial assets. In times of increased economic stress we are at increased risk of fraud losses. We believe we have underwriting and operational controls in place to prevent or detect such fraud, but we cannot provide assurance that these controls will be effective in detecting fraud or that we will not experience fraud losses or incur costs or other damage related to such fraud, at levels that adversely affect our financial results or reputation. Our lending customers may also experience fraud in their businesses which could adversely affect their ability to repay their loans or make use of our services. Our exposure and the exposure of our customers to fraud may increase our financial risk and reputation risk as it may result in unexpected loan losses that exceed those that have been provided for in our allowance for loan losses.. We must maintain adequate regulatory capital to support our business objectives.    Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we must satisfy capital requirements based upon quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items.  Our satisfaction of these requirements is subject to qualitative judgments by regulators that may differ materially from management's and that are subject to being determined retroactively for prior periods. Additionally, regulators can make subjective assessments about the adequacy of capital levels, even those over the \"well-capitalized\" requirements. Our ability to maintain our status as a financial holding company and to continue to operate our Bank as we have in recent periods is dependent upon a number of factors, including our Bank qualifying as \"well capitalized\" and \"well managed\" under applicable prompt corrective action regulations and upon our company qualifying on an ongoing basis as \"well capitalized\" and \"well managed\" under applicable Federal Reserve regulations.. Failure to meet regulatory capital standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, including damaging the confidence of customers in us, adversely impacting our reputation and competitive position and retention of key people. Any of these developments could limit our access to:. • Brokered deposits;. • The Federal Reserve discount window;. • Advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank;. • Capital markets transactions; and. • Development of new financial services.. 21. Table of Contents. Failure to meet regulatory capital standards may also result in higher FDIC assessments.  If we fall below guidelines for being deemed \"adequately capitalized\" the OCC or Federal Reserve could impose restrictions on our activities and a broad range of regulatory requirements in order to effect \"prompt corrective action.\"  The capital requirements applicable to us are in a process of continuous evaluation and revision in connection with Basel III and the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. We cannot predict the final form, or the effects, of these regulations on our business, but among the possible effects are requirements that we slow our rate of growth or obtain additional capital which could reduce our earnings or dilute our existing stockholders.. We are dependent on funds obtained from borrowing or capital transactions or from our Bank to fund our obligations.    We are a financial holding company engaged in the business of managing, controlling and operating our Bank. We conduct no material business or other activity at the parent company level other than activities incidental to holding equity and debt investments in our Bank. As a result, we rely on the proceeds of capital transactions, borrowings under our revolving line of credit, payments of interest and principal on loans made to our Bank and dividends on preferred stock issued by our Bank to pay our operating expenses, to satisfy our obligations to debtholders and to pay dividends on our preferred stock. The profitability of our Bank is subject to fluctuation based upon, among other things, the cost and availability of funds, changes in interest rates and economic conditions in general. Our Bank's ability to pay dividends to us is subject to regulatory limitations that can, under certain adverse circumstances, prohibit the payment of dividends to us. Our right to participate in any distribution from the liquidation or sale of our Bank's assets is subject to the prior claims of our Bank's creditors.. If we are unable to access funds from capital transactions, borrowing under our revolving line of credit or dividends or interest on loan payments from our Bank, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations to creditors or debtholders or pay dividends on our preferred stock.  Changes in our Bank's operating results or capital requirements could require us to convert subordinated notes or preferred stock of our bank held by us into common equity, reducing our cash flow available to meet our obligations.. We are subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary course of our business, including claims that may not be covered by our insurers.    Customers and other parties we engage with assert claims and take legal action against us on a regular basis and we regularly take legal action to collect unpaid borrower obligations, realize on collateral and assert our rights in commercial and other contexts. These actions frequently result in counter-claims against us. Litigation arises in a variety of contexts, including lending activities, employment practices, commercial agreements, fiduciary responsibility related to our wealth management services, intellectual property rights and other general business matters.. Claims and legal actions may result in significant legal costs to defend us or assert our rights and may result in reputational damage that adversely affects existing and future customer relationships. If claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us we may suffer significant financial liability or adverse effects upon our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Legal Proceedings below for additional disclosures regarding legal proceedings.. We purchase insurance coverage to mitigate a wide range of operating risks, including general liability, errors and omissions, professional liability, business interruption, cyber-crime, fraud and property loss, for events that may be materially detrimental to our Bank or customers.  There is no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to protect us against material losses in excess of our coverage limits or that insurers will perform their obligations under our policies without attempting to limit or exclude coverage. We could be required to pursue legal actions against insurers to obtain payment of amounts we are owed, and there is no assurance that such actions, if pursued, would be successful.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.    A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties, and that we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value by limiting our ability to use or sell it. Although we have policies and procedures requiring environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future laws or regulations or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws and regulations may increase our exposure to environmental liability.. Severe weather, earthquakes, other natural disasters, pandemics, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business.    Severe weather, earthquakes, other natural disasters, pandemics, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Recent hurricanes caused extensive flooding and destruction along the coastal areas of Texas and in other areas in the US, including communities where we conduct business. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Our Securities. Our stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:. • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual results of operations;. • changes in recommendations by securities analysts;. • changes in composition and perceptions of the investors who own our stock and other securities;. • changes in ratings from national rating agencies on publicly or privately owned debt securities and deposits in our Bank;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry, including regulatory actions against other financial institutions;. • actual or expected economic conditions that are perceived to affect our company such as changes in commodity prices, real estate values or interest rates;. • perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors;. • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors;. • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;. • changes in government regulations and interpretation of those regulations, changes in our practices requested or required by regulators and changes in regulatory enforcement focus; and. • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies.    Although our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. In addition, a substantial majority of common stock outstanding is held by institutional shareholders, and trading activity involving large positions may increase volatility of the stock price. Concentration of ownership by institutional investors and inability to execute trades covering large numbers of shares can increase volatility of stock price. Changes in general economic outlook or perspectives on our business or prospects by our institutional investors, whether factual or speculative, can have a major impact on our stock price.. Our preferred stock is thinly traded.    There is only a limited trading volume in our preferred stock due to the small size of the issue and its largely institutional holder base.  Significant sales of our preferred stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the price of the preferred stock to fall substantially.. An investment in our securities is not an insured deposit.    Our common stock, preferred stock and indebtedness are not bank deposits and, therefore, are not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of securities of any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, preferred stock or indebtedness, you may lose some or all of your investment.. The holders of our indebtedness and preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of our common stockholders.    As of December 31, 2017, we had $111.0 million outstanding in subordinated notes issued by our holding company and $113.4 million outstanding in junior subordinated notes that are held by statutory trusts which issued trust preferred securities to investors. At December 31, 2017 our Bank had $175.0 million in subordinated notes outstanding. Payments of the principal and interest on our trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by us to the extent not paid by each trust, provided the trust has funds available for such obligations.. Our subordinated notes and junior subordinated notes are senior to our shares of preferred stock and common stock in right of payment of dividends and other distributions. We must be current on interest and principal payments on our indebtedness before any dividends can be paid on our preferred stock or our common stock. In the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of our indebtedness must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to our preferred or common stockholders.  If certain conditions are met, we have the right to defer interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures. 23. Table of Contents. (and the related trust preferred securities) at any time or from time to time for a period not to exceed 20 consecutive quarters in a deferral period, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our preferred stock or common stock. Because our Bank's subordinated notes are obligations of the Bank, they would in liquidation of our Bank or sale of its assets receive payment before any amounts would be payable to holders of our common stock, preferred stock or subordinated notes.. At December 31, 2017, we had issued and outstanding 6 million shares of our 6.50% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series, A, having an aggregate liquidation preference of $150.0 million. Our preferred stock is senior to our shares of common stock in right of payment of dividends and other distributions. We must be current on dividends payable to holders of preferred stock before any dividends can be paid on our common stock. In the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of our preferred stock must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to our common stockholders.. We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock.    We have not paid dividends on our common stock and we do not expect to do so for the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. The ability of our Bank to pay dividends to us is limited by its obligation to maintain sufficient capital and by other regulatory restrictions as discussed above under the heading Supervision and Regulation.. Restrictions on ownership.    The ability of a third party to acquire us is limited under applicable U.S. banking laws and regulations. The BHCA requires any bank holding company (as defined therein) to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve prior to acquiring, directly or indirectly, more than 5% of our outstanding Common Stock. Any \"company\" (as defined in the BHCA) other than a bank holding company would be required to obtain Federal Reserve approval before acquiring \"control\" of us. \"Control\" generally means (i) the ownership or control of 25% or more of a class of voting securities, (ii) the ability to elect a majority of the directors or (iii) the ability otherwise to exercise a controlling influence over management and policies. A holder of 25% or more of our outstanding Common Stock, other than an individual, is subject to regulation and supervision as a bank holding company under the BHCA. In addition, under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, and the Federal Reserve's regulations thereunder, any person, either individually or acting through or in concert with one or more persons, is required to provide notice to the Federal Reserve prior to acquiring, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of our outstanding common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may make it more difficult for you to receive a change in control premium.    Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest more difficult, even if such events were perceived by many of our stockholders as beneficial to their interests. These provisions include advance notice for nominations of directors and stockholders' proposals, and authority to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, in general, prevents an interested stockholder, defined generally as a person owning 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock, from engaging in a business combination with our company for three years following the date that person became an interested stockholder unless certain specified conditions are satisfied.. Limitations on payment of subordinated notes.    Under the FDIA, \"critically undercapitalized\" banks may not, beginning 60 days after becoming critically undercapitalized, make any payment of principal or interest on their subordinated debt (subject to certain limited exceptions). In addition, under Section 18(i) of the FDIA, our Bank is required to obtain the advance consent of the FDIC to retire any part of its subordinated notes. Under the FDIA, a bank may not pay interest on its subordinated notes if such interest is required to be paid only out of net profits, or distribute any of its capital assets, while it remains in default on any assessment due to the FDIC.. Our Bank's subordinated indebtedness is unsecured and subordinate and junior in right of payment to the Bank's obligations to its depositors, its obligations under banker's acceptances and letters of credit, its obligations to any Federal Reserve Bank, certain obligations to the FDIC, and its obligations to its other creditors, whether now outstanding or hereafter incurred, except any obligations which expressly rank on a parity with or junior to the subordinated notes."
