[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties. If any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. An investment in our securities is speculative in nature, involves a high degree of risk, and should not be made by an investor who cannot bear the economic risk of its investment for an indefinite period of time and who cannot afford the loss of its entire investment. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report before making an investment in our securities.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Because we have in-licensed our product candidates from third parties, any dispute with or non-performance by our licensors will adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize the applicable product candidates.. Because we license our foundational intellectual property from third parties and we expect to continue to in-license additional intellectual property rights, if there is any dispute between us and our licensor regarding our rights under a license agreement, our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates may be adversely affected. Disputes may arise with the third parties from whom we license our intellectual property rights from for a variety of reasons, including:. <U+25CF>. the scope of rights granted under the license agreement and other interpretation-related issues;. <U+25CF>. the extent to which our technology and processes infringe on intellectual property of the licensor that is not subject to the licensing agreement;. <U+25CF>. the sublicensing of patent and other rights under our collaborative development relationships and obligations associated with sublicensing;. <U+25CF>. our diligence obligations under the license agreement and what activities satisfy those diligence obligations;. <U+25CF>. the inventorship and ownership of inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by our licensors and us and our partners; and. <U+25CF>. the priority of invention of patented technology.. In addition, the agreements under which we currently license intellectual property or technology from third parties are complex, and certain provisions in such agreements may be susceptible to multiple interpretations, or may conflict in such a way that puts us in breach of one or more agreements, which would make us susceptible to lengthy and expensive disputes with one or more of our licensing partners. The resolution of any contract interpretation disagreement that may arise could narrow what we believe to be the scope of our rights to the relevant intellectual property or technology, or increase what we believe to be our financial or other obligations under the relevant agreement, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Moreover, if disputes over intellectual property that we have licensed prevent or impair our ability to maintain our current licensing arrangements on commercially acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize the affected product candidates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations, and prospects.. 24. We do not have full internal development capabilities, and are thus reliant upon our partners and third parties to generate clinical, preclinical and quality data necessary to support the regulatory applications needed to conduct clinical trials and file for marketing approval.. In order to submit and maintain an IND, Biologics License Application (\"BLA\"), or New Drug Application (\"NDA\") to the FDA, it is necessary to submit all information on the clinical, non-clinical, chemistry, manufacturing, controls and quality aspects of the product candidate. We rely on our third party contractors and our licensing partners to provide a significant portion of this data. If we are unable to obtain this data, or the data is not sufficient to meet the regulatory requirements, we may experience significant delays in our development programs. Additionally, an IND must be active in each division in which we intend to conduct clinical trials. Currently we do not have an active IND for any of the IRAK4, BTK, or BET inhibitors, nor for our anti-GITR antibody. Additionally, there can be no assurance given that any of the molecules under development in our IRAK4, BTK, or BET inhibitor program or in our anti-GITR antibody research program will demonstrate sufficient pharmacologic properties during pre-clinical evaluation to advance to IND enabling studies, or that such IND enabling studies, if any are conducted, will provide data sufficient to support the filing of an IND, or that such IND, if filed, would be accepted by any FDA division under which we would seek to develop any product candidate. While we maintain an active IND for TG-1101 and TGR-1202 enabling the conduct of studies in the FDA's Division of Hematology and Oncology, and an active IND for TG-1101 under the FDA's Division of Neurology, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining an active IND for these drugs in any other division under whose supervision we may seek to develop our product candidates, or that the FDA will allow us to continue the development of our product candidates in those divisions where we maintain an active IND.. We are highly dependent on the success of our product candidates and cannot give any assurance that these or any future product candidates will be successfully commercialized.. We are a development-stage biopharmaceutical company, and do not currently have any commercial products that generate revenues or any other sources of revenue. We may never be able to successfully develop marketable products. Our pharmaceutical development methods are unproven and may not lead to commercially viable products for any of several reasons.. If we are unable to develop, or receive regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize any of our product candidates, we will not be able to generate product revenues. Even if we are able to develop or receive regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize any of our product candidates, we may not be able to gain market acceptance for our product candidates and future products and may never become profitable.. Because the results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, any product candidate we advance into clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials, if any, or receive regulatory approval.. Pharmaceutical development has inherent risk. We will be required to demonstrate through adequate and well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are effective with a favorable benefit-risk profile for use in diverse populations for their target indications before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. Success in early clinical trials does not mean that later clinical trials will be successful because product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. Companies frequently suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after earlier clinical trials have shown promising results. In addition, there is typically an extremely high rate of failure of pharmaceutical candidates proceeding through clinical trials.. 25. We plan on conducting additional Phase I, II and III clinical trials for TG-1101 and TGR-1202. Early clinical results seen with TG-1101 and TGR-1202 in a small number of patients may not be reproduced in expanded or larger clinical trials. Additionally, individually reported outcomes of patients treated in clinical trials may not be representative of the entire population of treated patients in such studies. Further, larger scale Phase III studies, which are often conducted internationally, are inherently subject to increased operational risks compared to earlier stage studies, including the risk that the results could vary on a region to region, or country to country basis which could materially adversely affect the study's outcome or the opinion of the validity of the study results by applicable regulatory agencies. Early clinical trial results from interim analysis or from the review of a Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) or similar safety committee may not be reflective of the results of the entire study, when completed. Additionally, many of the results reported in our early clinical trials rely on local investigator assessed safety and efficacy outcomes which may differ from results assessed in a blinded, independent, centrally reviewed manner, often required of adequate and well controlled registration directed clinical trials which may be undertaken at a later date. If the results from expansion cohorts or later trials are different from those found in the earlier studies of TG-1101 and TGR-1202, we may need to terminate or revise our clinical development plan, which could extend the time for conducting our development program and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our IRAK4, BTK, BET, and anti-GITR programs are all in pre-clinical development and no assurance can be given that they will advance into clinical development. If the results from additional pre-clinical studies or early clinical trials differ from those found in earlier studies, our clinical development plans and timelines for this program could be adversely affected which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many drugs fail in the early stages of clinical development for safety and tolerability issues, accordingly if our pre-clinical assets advance into clinical development, no assurance can be made that a safe and efficacious dose can be found.. If we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trial programs, or if such clinical trials take longer to complete than we project, our ability to execute our current business strategy will be adversely affected.. Whether or not and how quickly we complete clinical trials is dependent in part upon the rate at which we are able to engage clinical trial sites and, thereafter, the rate of enrollment of patients, and the rate we collect, clean, lock and analyze the clinical trial database. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials, and whether existing or new drugs are approved for the indication we are studying. We are aware that other companies are currently conducting or planning clinical trials that seek to enroll patients with the same diseases that we are studying. Certain clinical trials are designed to continue until a pre-determined number of events have occurred in the patients enrolled. Trials such as this are subject to delays stemming from patient withdrawal and from lower than expected event rates. They may also incur additional costs if enrollment is increased in order to achieve the desired number of events. If we experience delays in identifying and contracting with sites and/or in patient enrollment in our clinical trial programs, we may incur additional costs and delays in our development programs, and may not be able to complete our clinical trials in a cost-effective or timely manner. In addition, conducting multi-national studies adds another level of complexity and risk. We are subject to events affecting countries outside the U.S. Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials we conduct or unanticipated adverse medical events could cause us to have to repeat or terminate the clinical trials.. In September 2015 we announced a Phase 3 clinical trial for the combination of TG-1101 + TGR-1202 for patients with CLL, which is being conducted pursuant to an SPA with the FDA and in August 2017 we announced an SPA for our registration program for TG-1101 in relapsing forms of MS. Many companies which have been granted SPAs and/or the right to utilize the FDA's Fast Track or accelerated approval process have ultimately failed to obtain final approval to market their drugs. Since we are seeking approvals under SPAs for some of our product registration strategies, based on protocol designs negotiated with the FDA, we may be subject to enhanced scrutiny. Further, any changes or amendments to a protocol that is being conducted under SPA will have to be reviewed and approved by the FDA to verify that the SPA agreement is still valid. Even if the primary endpoint in a Phase 3 clinical trial is achieved, a SPA does not guarantee approval. The FDA may raise issues of safety, study conduct, bias, deviation from the protocol, statistical power, patient completion rates, changes in scientific or medical parameters or internal inconsistencies in the data prior to making its final decision. The FDA may also seek the guidance of an outside advisory committee prior to making its final decision.. 26. The sufficiency of our GENUINE trial results for approval are subject to FDA's discretion.. Obtaining accelerated approval for an agent requires demonstration of meaningful benefit over available therapies. While we believe we have an understanding of what is considered available therapy today, ultimately the determination of what constitutes available therapy is wholly up to the FDA and is subject to change. In October 2017, we announced the outcome of a meeting with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regarding the use of the results from the GENUINE Phase 3 trial to support a Biologics License Application (BLA) filing for accelerated approval of TG-1101 in combination with ibrutinib. As part of the discussion, the FDA also guided that if one or more agents obtained full approval before we could obtain accelerated approval, those agents could be considered available therapy, and we would need to show meaningful benefit over those agents as well. No assurance can be given that other agents will not receive full approval prior to our potential receipt of accelerated approval. If that were to occur, no assurance can be given that we would be successful in proving meaningful benefit over those later approved drugs. If we were unable to prove meaningful benefit over any such agents, we would be effectively blocked from receiving accelerated approval.. While we wait to see if any drugs receive full approval and can evaluate the data associated with any such agents, we are continuing to make preparations for a BLA filing for accelerated approval. Whether or not we ultimately file such application will be subject to multiple factors and no assurance can be given that a filing will be made. If a filing is made, the FDA acceptance of such a filing will depend on the FDA's views on the adequacy of the filing, and further even if the filing is accepted, approval of such a filing is a question wholly within the FDA's discretion to determine.  In addition, if we were to receive accelerated approval, we would be required to conduct a post-market confirmatory study, which we may not complete, or if completed, may prove unsuccessful. In such instance, the FDA can remove the product from the market.. The GENUINE study in its final form was not powered for progression-free survival (PFS). There can be no assurance given that we will reach agreement with the FDA on an acceptable use of PFS data from GENUINE to support approval of TG-1101, or even if an agreement is reached, that the PFS results of TG-1101 will be positive and/or sufficient to support a regulatory approval of TG-1101.. Any product candidates we may advance through clinical development are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming, cause unanticipated delays or prevent the receipt of the required approvals or \"fast track\" or \"priority review\" status to commercialize our product candidates.. The clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, import, export, marketing and distribution of our product candidates or any future product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and by comparable health authorities worldwide or in foreign markets. In the United States, we are not permitted to market our product candidates until we receive approval of a BLA or NDA from the FDA. The process of obtaining BLA and NDA approval is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. Approval policies or regulations may change and the FDA has substantial discretion in the pharmaceutical approval process, including the ability to delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons. Even with \"fast track\" or \"priority review\" status which we intend to seek for our product candidates, where possible, including with regard to TG-1101, such designations do not necessarily mean a faster development process or regulatory review process or necessarily confer any advantage with respect to approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. In addition, the FDA may require post-approval clinical trials or studies which also may be costly. The FDA approval for a limited indication or approval with required warning language, such as a boxed warning, could significantly impact our ability to successfully market our product candidates. Finally, the FDA may require adoption of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (\"REMS\") requiring prescriber training, post-market registries, or otherwise restricting the marketing and dissemination of these products. Despite the time and expense invested in clinical development of product candidates, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. Assuming successful clinical development, we intend to seek product approvals in countries outside the United States. As a result, we would be subject to regulation by the European Medicines Agency (\"EMA\"), as well as the other regulatory agencies in many of these countries, and other regulatory agencies around the world.. 27. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. As in the United States, the regulatory approval process in Europe and in other countries is a lengthy and challenging process. The FDA, and any other regulatory body around the world can delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including:. <U+25CF>. the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials;. <U+25CF>. we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for any indication;. <U+25CF>. the FDA may not accept clinical data from trials which are conducted by individual investigators or in countries where the standard of care is potentially different from the United States;. <U+25CF>. the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for approval;. <U+25CF>. we may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks;. <U+25CF>. the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;. <U+25CF>. the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of a BLA, NDA or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere;. <U+25CF>. the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we or our collaborators contract for clinical and commercial supplies; or. <U+25CF>. the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval.. In addition, recent events raising questions about the safety of certain marketed pharmaceuticals may result in increased cautiousness by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in reviewing new pharmaceuticals based on safety, efficacy or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. Regulatory approvals for our product candidates may not be obtained without lengthy delays, if at all. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, applicable regulatory approvals would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates.. Any product candidate we advance into clinical trials may cause unacceptable adverse events or have other properties that may delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization or limit their commercial potential.. Unacceptable adverse events caused by any of our product candidates that we take into clinical trials could cause either us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay, modify or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could prevent us from commercializing the affected product candidate and generating revenues from its sale.. 28. We have not completed testing of any of our product candidates for the treatment of the indications for which we intend to seek product approval in humans, and we currently do not know the extent that adverse events, if any, will be observed in patients who receive any of our product candidates. To date, clinical trials using TG-1101 and TGR-1202 have demonstrated a toxicity profile that was deemed acceptable by the investigators performing such studies. Such interpretation may not be shared by future investigators or by the FDA and in the case of TG-1101 and TGR-1202, even if deemed acceptable for oncology applications, it may not be acceptable for diseases outside the oncology setting, and likewise for any other product candidates we may develop. Additionally, the severity, duration and incidence of adverse events may increase in larger study populations. With respect to both TG-1101 and TGR-1202, the toxicity when manufactured under different conditions and in different formulations is not known, and it is possible that additional and/or different adverse events may appear upon the human use of those formulations and those adverse events may arise with greater frequency, intensity and duration than in the current formulation. Should the Company not be able to adequately demonstrate analytical comparability between drug product manufactured under different conditions, the introduction of such new drug product into ongoing trials also has the potential to confound the interpretation of the results or complicate the statistical analysis of such trial. Further, with respect to TGR-1202, although approximately one thousand patients have been dosed amongst all ongoing TGR-1202 studies, the full adverse effect profile of TGR-1202 is not known. It is also unknown as additional patients are exposed for longer durations to TGR-1202, whether greater frequency and/or severity of adverse events are likely to occur. Common toxicities of other drugs in the same class as TGR-1202 include high levels of liver toxicity, infections and colitis, the latter of which notably has presented with later onset, with incidence increasing with duration of exposure. To date, the incidence of these events has been limited for TGR-1202, however no assurance can be given that this safety and tolerability profile will continue to be demonstrated in the future as higher doses, longer durations of exposure, and multiple drug combinations are explored. If any of our product candidates cause unacceptable adverse events in clinical trials, we may not be able to obtain marketing approval and generate revenues from its sale, or even if approved for sale may lack differentiation from competitive products, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations.. Additionally, in combination clinical development, there is an inherent risk of drug-drug interactions between combination agents which may affect each component's individual pharmacologic properties and the overall efficacy and safety of the combination regimen. Both TG-1101 and TGR-1202 are being evaluated in combination together, as well as with a variety of other active anti-cancer agents, which may cause unforeseen toxicity, or impact the severity, duration, and incidence of adverse events observed compared to those seen in the single agent studies of these agents. Further, with multi-drug combinations, it is often difficult to interpret or properly assign attribution of an adverse event to any one particular agent, introducing the risk that toxicity caused by a component of a combination regimen could have a material adverse impact on the development of our product candidates. There can be no assurances given that the combination regimens being studied will display tolerability or efficacy suitable to warrant further testing or produce data that is sufficient to obtain marketing approval.. If any of our product candidates receives marketing approval and we, or others, later identify unacceptable adverse events caused by the product, a number of significant negative consequences could result, including:. <U+25CF>. regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the affected product;. <U+25CF>. regulatory authorities may require a more significant clinical benefit for approval to offset the risk;. <U+25CF>. regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements that could diminish the usage of the product or otherwise limit the commercial success of the affected product;. <U+25CF>. we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product;. <U+25CF>. we may choose to discontinue sale of the product;. <U+25CF>. we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients;. <U+25CF>. we may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements on acceptable terms and execute on our business model; and. <U+25CF>. our reputation may suffer.. Any one or a combination of these events could prevent us from obtaining or maintaining regulatory approval and achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the affected product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating any revenues from the sale of the affected product.. 29. We may experience delays in the commencement of our clinical trials or in the receipt of data from preclinical and clinical trials conducted by third parties, which could result in increased costs and delay our ability to pursue regulatory approval.. Delays in the commencement of clinical trials and delays in the receipt of data from preclinical or clinical trials conducted by third parties could significantly impact our product development costs. Before we can initiate clinical trials in the United States for our product candidates, we need to submit the results of preclinical testing, usually in animals, to the FDA as part of an IND, along with other information including information about product chemistry, manufacturing and controls and its proposed clinical trial protocol for our product candidates.. We plan to rely on preclinical and clinical trial data from third parties, if any, for the IND submissions for our product candidates. If receipt of that data is delayed for any reason, including reasons outside of our control, it will delay our plans for IND filings, and clinical trial plans. This, in turn, will delay our ability to make subsequent regulatory filings and ultimately, to commercialize our products if regulatory approval is obtained. If those third parties do not make this data available to us, we will likely, on our own, have to develop all the necessary preclinical and clinical data which will lead to additional delays and increase the costs of our development of our product candidates.. Before we can test any product candidate in human clinical trials the product candidate enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as in-vitro and animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of the pharmaceutical product candidate. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements including good laboratory practices (\"GLP\").. We must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and a proposed clinical protocol, to the FDA as part of the IND. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA places the IND on a clinical hold within that 30-day time period. In such a case, we must work with the FDA to resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trials can begin. The FDA may also impose clinical holds on a product candidate at any time before or during clinical trials due to safety concerns or non-compliance. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that submission of an IND will result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to begin, or that, once begun, issues will not arise that suspend or terminate such clinical trial.. The FDA may require that we conduct additional preclinical testing for any product candidate before it allows us to initiate the clinical testing under any IND, which may lead to additional delays and increase the costs of our preclinical development.. Even assuming an active IND for a product candidate, we do not know whether our planned clinical trials for any such product candidate will begin on time, or at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in:. <U+25CF>. obtaining regulatory clearance to commence a clinical trial;. <U+25CF>. identifying, recruiting and training suitable clinical investigators;. <U+25CF>. reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations (\"CROs\") and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation, may be subject to modification from time to time and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;. <U+25CF>. obtaining sufficient quantities of a product candidate for use in clinical trials;. <U+25CF>. obtaining institutional review board (\"IRB\") or ethics committee approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site;. <U+25CF>. identifying, recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in a clinical trial;. <U+25CF>. retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may withdraw due to adverse events from the therapy, insufficient efficacy, fatigue with the clinical trial process or personal issues; and. <U+25CF>. unexpected safety findings.. Any delays in the commencement of our clinical trials will delay our ability to pursue regulatory approval for our product candidates. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate.. 30. Delays in the completion of clinical testing could result in increased costs and delay our ability to generate product revenues.. Once a clinical trial has begun, patient recruitment and enrollment may be slower than we anticipate. Clinical trials may also be delayed as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, an IRB, an ethics committee or a Data Safety and Monitoring Committee overseeing the clinical trial, any of our clinical trial sites with respect to that site or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:. <U+25CF>. failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols;. <U+25CF>. inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold;. <U+25CF>. unforeseen safety issues or any determination that the clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks; and. <U+25CF>. lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial.. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance also may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for re-examination, which may impact the costs, timing and successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in the completion of, or if we must terminate, any clinical trial of any product candidate that we advance into clinical trials, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for that product candidate will be delayed and the commercial prospects, if any, for the product candidate may be harmed. In addition, many of these factors may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Even if we ultimately commercialize any of our product candidates, other therapies for the same indications may have been introduced to the market during the period we have been delayed and such therapies may have established a competitive advantage over our product candidates.. We intend to rely on third parties to help conduct our planned clinical trials. If these third parties do not meet their deadlines or otherwise conduct the trials as required, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates when expected or at all.. We intend to use CROs to assist in the conduct of our planned clinical trials and will rely upon medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our trials in accordance with our clinical protocols. Our future CROs, investigators and other third parties may play a significant role in the conduct of these trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data from the clinical trials.. There is no guarantee that any CROs, investigators and other third parties will devote adequate time and resources to our clinical trials or perform as contractually required. If any third parties upon whom we rely for administration and conduct of our clinical trials fail to meet expected deadlines, fail to adhere to its clinical protocols or otherwise perform in a substandard manner, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates.. If any of our clinical trial sites terminate for any reason, we may experience the loss of follow-up information on patients enrolled in our ongoing clinical trials unless we are able to transfer the care of those patients to another qualified clinical trial site. In addition, principal investigators for our clinical trials may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive cash or equity compensation in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site may be jeopardized.. As all of our product candidates are still under development, manufacturing and process improvements implemented in the production of those product candidates may affect their ultimate activity or function.. Our product candidates are in the initial stages of development and are currently manufactured in small batches for use in pre-clinical and clinical studies. Process improvements implemented to date have changed, and process improvements in the future may change, the activity profile of the product candidates, which may affect the safety and efficacy of the products. No assurance can be given that the material manufactured from any of the optimized processes will perform comparably to the product candidates as manufactured to date and used in currently available pre-clinical data and or in early clinical trials reported in this or any previous filing. Additionally, future clinical trial results will be subject to the same level of uncertainty if, following such trials, additional process improvements are made. In addition, we have engaged a secondary manufacturer for TG-1101 to meet our current clinical and future commercial needs and anticipate engaging additional manufacturing sources for TGR-1202 to meet expanded clinical trial and commercial needs. While material produced from this secondary manufacturer for TG-1101 has to date demonstrated acceptable comparability to enable introduction into our clinical trials, no assurance can be given that any additional manufacturers will be successful or that material manufactured by the additional manufacturers will perform comparably to TG-1101 or TGR-1202 as manufactured to date and used in currently available pre-clinical data and or in early clinical trials reported in this or any previous filing, or that the relevant regulatory agencies will agree with our interpretation of comparability. If a secondary manufacturer is not successful in replicating the product or experiences delays, or if regulatory authorities impose unforeseen requirements with respect to product comparability from multiple manufacturing sources, we may experience delays in clinical development.. 31. If we fail to adequately understand and comply with the local laws and customs as we expand into new international markets, these operations may incur losses or otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We expect to operate a portion of our business in certain countries through subsidiaries or through supply and marketing arrangements. In those countries, where we have limited experience in operating subsidiaries and in reviewing equity investees, we will be subject to additional risks related to complying with a wide variety of national and local laws, including restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, technologies and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. In addition, we may face competition in certain countries from companies that may have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally. We may also face difficulties integrating new facilities in different countries into our existing operations, as well as integrating employees hired in different countries into our existing corporate culture. If we do not effectively manage our operations in these subsidiaries and review equity investees effectively, or if we fail to manage our alliances, we may lose money in these countries and it may adversely affect our business and results of our operations. In all interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, the Company is exposed to liability risks under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar anti-bribery laws.. If our competitors develop treatments for the target indications for which any of our product candidates may be approved, and they are approved more quickly, marketed more effectively or demonstrated to be more effective than our product candidates, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated.. We operate in a highly competitive segment of the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical market. We face competition from numerous sources, including commercial pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, academic institutions, government agencies, and private and public research institutions. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, product development, manufacturing and marketing resources. Large pharmaceutical companies have extensive experience in clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approval for drugs. Additionally, many universities and private and public research institutes are active in cancer research, some in direct competition with us. We may also compete with these organizations to recruit scientists and clinical development personnel. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies.. The cancer indications for which we are developing our products have a number of established therapies with which we will compete. Most major pharmaceutical companies and many biotechnology companies are aggressively pursuing new cancer development programs for the treatment of NHL, CLL, and other B-cell proliferative malignancies, including both therapies with traditional, as well as novel, mechanisms of action. Additionally, numerous established therapies exist for the autoimmune disorders for which we are developing TG-1101, including and in particular, multiple sclerosis (MS).. If approved, we expect TG-1101 to compete directly with Roche Group's Rituxan® (rituximab) and Gazyva® (obinutuzumab or GA-101), and Novartis' Arzerra® (ofatumumab) among others, each of which is currently approved for the treatment of various diseases including NHL and CLL. In addition, a number of pharmaceutical companies are developing antibodies targeting CD20, CD19, and other B-cell associated targets, chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) immunotherapy, and other B-cell ablative therapy which, if approved, would potentially compete with TG-1101 both in oncology settings as well as in autoimmune disorders. In 2017, the Roche Group's anti-CD20 antibody ocrelizumab was approved for the treatment of MS. Genmab and GSK's (ofatumumab) is also under clinical development for patients with MS. New developments, including the development of other pharmaceutical technologies and methods of treating disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries at a rapid pace.. With respect to TGR-1202, there are several PI3K delta targeted compounds both approved, such as Gilead's Zydelig® (idelalisib) and Bayer's Aliqopa\231 (copanlisib), and in development, including, but not limited to, Verastem's duvelisib which if approved we would expect to compete directly with TGR-1202. In addition, there are numerous other novel therapies targeting similar pathways to TGR-1202 both approved and in development, which could also compete with TGR-1202 in similar indications, such as the BTK inhibitor, ibrutinib (FDA approved for MCL, CLL, Marginal Zone Lymphoma and WM and marketed by AbbVie and Janssen), the BTK inhibitor acalabrutinib (FDA approved for MCL and marketed by AstraZeneca), or the BCL-2 inhibitor venetoclax (FDA approved for CLL and marketed by AbbVie and Roche).. 32. These developments may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater:. <U+25CF>. research and development resources, including personnel and technology;. <U+25CF>. regulatory experience;. <U+25CF>. pharmaceutical development, clinical trial and pharmaceutical commercialization experience;. <U+25CF>. experience and expertise in exploitation of intellectual property rights; and. <U+25CF>. capital resources.. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than us or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our competitors may also develop products for the treatment of lymphoma, CLL, or other B-cell and autoimmune related disorders that are more effective, better tolerated, more useful and less costly than ours and may also be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for their product candidates sooner than we do for our products.. We will also face competition from these third parties in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and enrolling patients for clinical trials and in identifying and in-licensing new product candidates.. We rely completely on third parties to manufacture our preclinical and clinical pharmaceutical supplies and we intend to rely on third parties to produce commercial supplies of any approved product candidate, and our commercialization of any of our product candidates could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable if those third parties fail to obtain approval of the FDA, fail to provide us with sufficient quantities of pharmaceutical product or fail to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices.. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates must be approved by the FDA pursuant to inspections that will be conducted only after we submit a BLA or NDA to the FDA, if at all. We do not control the manufacturing process of our product candidates and are completely dependent on our contract manufacturing partners for compliance with the FDA's requirements for manufacture of finished pharmaceutical products (good manufacturing practices, GMP). If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our target product specifications, patent specifications, and/or the FDA's strict regulatory requirements of safety, purity and potency, we will not be able to secure and/or maintain FDA approval for our product candidates. In addition, we have no control over the ability of our contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If our contract manufacturers cannot meet FDA standards, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates. No assurance can be given that a long-term, scalable manufacturer can be identified or that they can make clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates that meets the product specifications of previously manufactured batches, or is of a sufficient quality, or at an appropriate scale and cost to make it commercially feasible. If they are unable to do so, it could have a material adverse impact on our business.. In addition, we do not have the capability to package finished products for distribution to hospitals and other customers. Prior to commercial launch, we intend to enter into agreements with one or more alternate fill/finish pharmaceutical product suppliers so that we can ensure proper supply chain management once we are authorized to make commercial sales of our product candidates. If we receive marketing approval from the FDA, we intend to sell pharmaceutical product finished and packaged by such suppliers. We have not entered into long-term agreements with our current contract manufacturers or with any fill/finish suppliers, and though we intend to do so prior to commercial launch of our product candidates in order to ensure that we maintain adequate supplies of finished product, we may be unable to enter into such an agreement or do so on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse impact upon our business.. 33. In most cases, our manufacturing partners are single source suppliers. It is expected that our manufacturing partners will be sole source suppliers from single site locations for the foreseeable future. Given this, any disruption of supply from these partners could have a material, long-term impact on our ability to supply products for clinical trials or commercial sale. If our suppliers do not deliver sufficient quantities of our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all, and in accordance with applicable specifications, there could be a significant interruption of our supply, which would adversely affect clinical development and commercialization of our products. In addition, if our current or future supply of any or our product candidates should fail to meet specifications during its stability program there could be a significant interruption of our supply of drug, which would adversely affect the clinical development and commercialization of the product.. Our product candidates may compete with other product candidates and products for access to manufacturing facilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMP regulations and that might be capable of manufacturing for us. Any performance failure on the part of our existing or future manufacturers could delay clinical development or marketing approval. We do not currently have arrangements in place for redundant supply or a second source for bulk drug substance. If our current contract manufacturers cannot perform as agreed, we may be required to replace such manufacturers. We may incur added costs and delays in identifying and qualifying any replacement manufacturers.. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates or products may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to commercialize any products that receive marketing approval on a timely and competitive basis.. We also expect to rely on other third parties to store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. Any performance failure on the part of our distributors could delay clinical development or marketing approval of any future product candidates or commercialization of our products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue.. We currently have no marketing and sales organization and no experience in marketing pharmaceutical products. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or fail to enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell any products we may develop, we may not be able to effectively market and sell our products and generate product revenue.. We do not currently have the infrastructure for the sales, marketing and distribution of our biotechnology products, and we must build this infrastructure or make arrangements with third parties to perform these functions in order to commercialize our products. We plan to either develop internally or enter into collaborations or other commercial arrangements to develop further, promote and sell all or a portion of our product candidates.. The establishment and development of a sales force, either by us or jointly with a development partner, or the establishment of a contract sales force to market any products we may develop will be expensive and time-consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we or our development partners would be able to successfully develop this capability. If we or our development partners are unable to establish sales and marketing capability or any other non-technical capabilities necessary to commercialize any products we may develop, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell such products. We currently possess limited resources and may not be successful in establishing our own internal sales force or in establishing arrangements with third parties on acceptable terms, if at all.. We may seek to establish additional collaborations and, if we are not able to establish them on commercially reasonable terms, we may have to alter our development and commercialization plans.. Any future product candidate development programs and the potential commercialization of our product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. For any current or future product candidates, we may decide to collaborate with additional pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the development and potential commercialization of those product candidates.. 34. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Whether we reach a definitive agreement for any additional collaborations will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. Those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States, the potential market for the subject product candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such product candidate to patients, the potential of competing drugs, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of technology, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge and industry and market conditions generally. The collaborator may also consider alternative product candidates or technologies for similar indications that may be available to collaborate on and whether such a collaboration could be more attractive than the one with us for any future product candidate. The terms of any additional collaborations or other arrangements that we may establish may not be favorable to us.. We may not be able to negotiate additional collaborations on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. Collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. In addition, there have been a significant number of recent business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies that have resulted in a reduced number of potential future collaborators. If we are unable to negotiate and enter into new collaborations, we may have to curtail the development of the product candidate for which we are seeking to collaborate, reduce or delay its development program or reduce or delay any other future development programs.. If conflicts arise between us and our future collaborators or strategic partners, these parties may act in a manner adverse to us and could limit our ability to implement our strategies.. If conflicts arise between our future corporate or academic collaborators or strategic partners and us, the other party may act in a manner adverse to us and could limit our ability to implement our strategies. Future collaborators or strategic partners, may develop, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the products or potential products that are the subject of these collaborations. Competing products, either developed by the collaborators or strategic partners or to which the collaborators or strategic partners have rights, may result in the withdrawal of partner support for any future product candidates. Our current or future collaborators or strategic partners may preclude us from entering into collaborations with their competitors, fail to obtain timely regulatory approvals, terminate their agreements with us prematurely, or fail to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercialization of products. Any of these developments could harm any future product development efforts.. We will need to obtain FDA approval of any proposed product brand names, and any failure or delay associated with such approval may adversely impact our business.. A pharmaceutical product candidate cannot be marketed in the United States or other countries until we have completed a rigorous and extensive regulatory review processes, including approval of a brand name. Any brand names we intend to use for TG-1101, TGR-1202 or any future product candidates will require approval from the FDA regardless of whether we have secured a formal trademark registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO. The FDA typically conducts a review of proposed product brand names, including an evaluation of potential for confusion with other product names. The FDA may also object to a product brand name if it believes the name inappropriately implies medical claims. If the FDA objects to any of our proposed product brand names, we may be required to adopt an alternative brand name for TG-1101, TGR-1202 or any future product candidates. If we adopt an alternative brand name, we would lose the benefit of our existing trademark applications for such product candidate and may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable product brand name that would qualify under applicable trademark laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA. We may be unable to build a successful brand identity for a new trademark in a timely manner or at all, which would limit our ability to commercialize TG-1101, TGR-1202, or any future product candidates.. 35. If any product candidate that we successfully develop does not achieve broad market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors, and the medical community, the revenues that we generate from its sales will be limited.. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors, and the medical community. Coverage and reimbursement of our product candidates by third-party payors, including government payors, generally is also necessary for commercial success. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved products will depend on a number of factors, including:. <U+25CF>. the efficacy and safety as demonstrated in clinical trials;. <U+25CF>. the clinical indications for which the product is approved;. <U+25CF>. acceptance by physicians, major operators of cancer clinics and patients of the product as a safe and effective treatment;. <U+25CF>. the potential and perceived advantages of product candidates over alternative treatments;. <U+25CF>. the safety of product candidates seen in a broader patient group, including its use outside the approved indications;. <U+25CF>. the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments;. <U+25CF>. the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third parties and government authorities;. <U+25CF>. relative convenience and ease of administration;. <U+25CF>. the prevalence and severity of adverse events; and. <U+25CF>. the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts.. If any product candidate is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, hospitals, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products and we may not become or remain profitable.. If the market opportunities for our product candidates are smaller than we believe they are, even assuming approval of a drug candidate, our business may suffer.. Our projections of both the number of people who are affected by disease within our target indications, as well as the subset of these people who have the potential to benefit from treatment with our product candidates, are based on our beliefs and estimates. These estimates have been derived from a variety of sources, including the scientific literature, healthcare utilization databases and market research, and may prove to be incorrect. Further, new studies may change the estimated incidence or prevalence of these diseases. The number of patients may turn out to be lower than expected. Likewise, the potentially addressable patient population for each of our product candidates may be limited or may not be amenable to treatment with our product candidates, and new patients may become increasingly difficult to identify or gain access to, which would adversely affect our results of operations and our business.. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates.. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials, and will face an even greater risk if we sell our product candidates commercially. Although we are not aware of any historical or anticipated product liability claims against us, if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to cease clinical trials of our drug candidates or limit commercialization of any approved products. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend our self against product liability claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. <U+25CF>. decreased demand for our product candidates;. <U+25CF>. impairment to our business reputation;. <U+25CF>. withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. <U+25CF>. costs of related litigation;. <U+25CF>. distraction of management's attention from our primary business;. <U+25CF>. substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;. <U+25CF>. the inability to commercialize our product candidates; and. <U+25CF>. loss of revenues.. 36. We believe that we have obtained sufficient product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our product candidates. However, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms and with insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action or individual lawsuits relating to marketed pharmaceuticals. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business.. Reimbursement may be limited or unavailable in certain market segments for our product candidates, which could make it difficult for us to sell our products profitably.. We intend to seek approval to market our future products in both the United States and in countries and territories outside the United States. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign countries, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those countries relating to our product. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals and biologics is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product candidate. In addition, market acceptance and sales of our product candidates will depend significantly on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for any of our product candidates and may be affected by existing and future healthcare reform measures.. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which pharmaceuticals they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor's determination that use of a product is:. <U+25CF>. a covered benefit under its health plan;. <U+25CF>. safe, effective and medically necessary;. <U+25CF>. appropriate for the specific patient;. <U+25CF>. cost-effective; and. <U+25CF>. neither experimental nor investigational.. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time consuming and costly process that could require that we provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to the payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. If reimbursement of our future products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. Additionally, while we may seek approval of our products in combination with each other, there can be no guarantee that we will obtain coverage and reimbursement for any of our products together, or that such reimbursement will incentivize the use of our products in combination with each other as opposed to in combination with other agents which may be priced more favorably to the medical community.. In both the United States and certain foreign countries, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In particular, the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 revised the payment methodology for many products reimbursed by Medicare, resulting in lower rates of reimbursement for many types of drugs, and added a prescription drug benefit to the Medicare program that involves commercial plans negotiating drug prices for their members. Since 2003, there have been a number of other legislative and regulatory changes to the coverage and reimbursement landscape for pharmaceuticals.. 37. Most recently, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively, the \"ACA,\" was enacted. The ACA and any revisions or replacements of that Act, any substitute legislation, and other changes in the law or regulatory framework could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Among the provisions of the ACA of importance to our potential product candidates are:. <U+25CF>. an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs;. <U+25CF>. an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13.0% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively;. <U+25CF>. expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the federal False Claims Act and the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers and enhanced penalties for non-compliance;. <U+25CF>. a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for a manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;. <U+25CF>. extension of a manufacturer's Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;. <U+25CF>. expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 138% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing a manufacturer's Medicaid rebate liability;. <U+25CF>. expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the 340B Drug Pricing Program;. <U+25CF>. the new requirements under the federal Open Payments program and its implementing regulations;. <U+25CF>. a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians;. <U+25CF>. a new regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilar biological products, all of which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs; and. <U+25CF>. a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.. The Supreme Court upheld the ACA in the main challenge to the constitutionality of the law in 2012. The Supreme Court also upheld federal subsidies for purchasers of insurance through federally facilitated exchanges in a decision released in June 2015. Any remaining legal challenges to the ACA are viewed generally as not significantly impacting the implementation of the law if the plaintiffs prevail.. President Trump ran for office on a platform that supported the repeal of the ACA, and one of his first actions after his inauguration was to sign an Executive Order instructing federal agencies to waive or delay requirements of the ACA that impose economic or regulatory burdens on states, families, the health-care industry and others. Modifications to or repeal of all or certain provisions of the ACA have been attempted in Congress as a result of the outcome of the recent presidential and congressional elections, consistent with statements made by the incoming administration and members of Congress during the presidential and congressional campaigns and following the election. In January 2017, Congress voted to adopt a budget resolution for fiscal year 2017, or the Budget Resolution, that authorizes the implementation of legislation that would repeal portions of the ACA. The Budget Resolution is not a law. However, it is widely viewed as the first step toward the passage of legislation that would repeal certain aspects of the ACA. In March 2017, following the passage of the budget resolution for fiscal year 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation known as the American Health Care Act of 2017, which, if enacted, would amend or repeal significant portions of the ACA. Attempts in the Senate in 2017 to pass ACA repeal legislation, including the Better Care Reconciliation Act of 2017, so far have been unsuccessful.. 38. There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare products and services. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect:. <U+25CF>. the demand for any products for which we may obtain regulatory approval;. <U+25CF>. our ability to set a price that we believe is fair for our products;. <U+25CF>. our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability;. <U+25CF>. the level of taxes that we are required to pay; and. <U+25CF>. the availability of capital.. In addition, governments may impose price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability.. We will need to increase the size of our organization and the scope of our outside vendor relationships, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. As of March 1, 2018, we had 75 full and part time employees. Over time, we will need to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage and fund our operations and clinical trials, continue research and development activities, and commercialize our product candidates. Our management and scientific personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support our future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth, and various projects requires that we:. <U+25CF>. manage our clinical trials effectively;. <U+25CF>. manage our internal development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to licensors, contractors and other third parties;. <U+25CF>. continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures; and. <U+25CF>. attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees.. We may utilize the services of outside vendors or consultants to perform tasks including clinical trial management, statistics and analysis, regulatory affairs, formulation development, chemistry, manufacturing, controls, and other pharmaceutical development functions. Our growth strategy may also entail expanding our group of contractors or consultants to implement these tasks going forward. Because we rely on a substantial number of consultants, effectively outsourcing many key functions of our business, we will need to be able to effectively manage these consultants to ensure that they successfully carry out their contractual obligations and meet expected deadlines. However, if we are unable to effectively manage our outsourced activities or if the quality or accuracy of the services provided by consultants is compromised for any reason, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or otherwise advance its business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our existing consultants or find other competent outside contractors and consultants on economically reasonable terms, or at all. If we are not able to effectively expand our organization by hiring new employees and expanding our groups of consultants and contractors, we may be unable to successfully implement the tasks necessary to further develop and commercialize our product candidates and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals.. We may not be successful in our efforts to identify or discover additional product candidates and may fail to capitalize on programs or product candidates that may present a greater commercial opportunity or for which there is a greater likelihood of success.. The success of our business depends upon our ability to identify, develop and commercialize product candidates based on our programs. If we do not successfully develop and eventually commercialize products, we will face difficulty in obtaining product revenue in future periods, resulting in significant harm to our financial position and adversely affecting our share price. Research programs to identify new product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources.. 39. Additionally, because we have limited resources, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with certain programs or product candidates or for indications that later prove to have greater commercial potential. Our estimates regarding the potential market for a product candidate could be inaccurate, and our spending on current and future research and development programs may not yield any commercially viable products. If we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product candidate through strategic collaboration, licensing or other arrangements in cases in which it would have been more advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights to such product candidate. Alternatively, we may allocate internal resources to a product candidate in a therapeutic area in which it would have been more advantageous to enter into a partnering arrangement.. If any of these events occur, we may be forced to abandon or delay our development efforts with respect to a particular product candidate or fail to develop a potentially successful product candidate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. If we fail to attract and keep key management and clinical development personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates.. We will need to expand and effectively manage our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to successfully pursue our clinical development and commercialization efforts for our product candidates and future product candidates. We are highly dependent on the development, regulatory, commercial and financial expertise of the members of our senior management. The loss of the services of any of our senior management could delay or prevent the further development and potential commercialization of our product candidates and, if we are not successful in finding suitable replacements, could harm our business. We do not maintain \"key man\" insurance policies on the lives of these individuals. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our manufacturing, research and development activities.. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel and we may not be able to do so in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital, and our ability to implement our business strategy.. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. In addition to FDA restrictions on the marketing of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, as well as consulting or other service agreements with physicians or other potential referral sources and regulate the use and disclosure of identifiable patient information. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or, in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering, recommending or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-financed healthcare programs, and knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and any practices we adopt may not, in all cases, meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Any challenge to its business practices under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Finally, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, their respective implementing regulations and similar state laws and regulations, impose obligations on covered healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses, as well as their business associates that create, receive, maintain or transmit individually identifiable health information for or on behalf of a covered entity, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. In the event our operations result in our receiving such information, we could become subject to the requirements of these laws and regulations, including potential civil and criminal penalties.. 40. Our employees, consultants, or third party partners may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees, consultants, or third party partners could include intentional failures to comply with FDA regulations, provide accurate information to the FDA, comply with manufacturing standards we have established, comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Employee, consultant, or third party misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. The precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions.. We use biological and hazardous materials, and any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming or costly.. We use hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological agents and compounds, which could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair our pharmaceutical development efforts.. In addition, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials or wastes. If one of our employees was accidentally injured from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials or wastes, the medical costs related to his or her treatment would be covered by our workers' compensation insurance policy. However, we do not carry specific biological or hazardous waste insurance coverage and our property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from biological or hazardous waste exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources, and our clinical trials or regulatory approvals could be suspended, or operations otherwise affected.. All product candidate development timelines and projections in this report are based on the assumption of further financing.. The timelines and projections in this report are predicated upon the assumption that we will raise additional financing in the future to continue the development of our product candidates. In the event we do not successfully raise subsequent financing, our product development activities will necessarily be curtailed commensurate with the magnitude of the shortfall. If our product development activities are slowed or stopped, we would be unable to meet the timelines and projections outlined in this filing. Failure to progress our product candidates as anticipated will have a negative effect on our business, future prospects, and ability to obtain further financing on acceptable terms (if at all), and the value of the enterprise.. 41. We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the rules of any stock exchange on which we may become listed. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and appropriate corporate governance practices. Our team has devoted and will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our Board committees or as executive officers.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. As a result, we are required to periodically perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of those controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Additionally, our independent auditors are required to perform a similar evaluation and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These efforts to comply with Section 404 will require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. While we anticipate maintaining the integrity of our internal control over financial reporting and all other aspects of Section 404, we cannot be certain that a material weakness will not be identified when we test the effectiveness of our control systems in the future. If a material weakness is identified, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, costly litigation or a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock.. Risks Relating to Acquisitions. Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances that we may make in the future may use significant resources, result in disruptions to our business or distractions of our management, may not proceed as planned, and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities.. We may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of, investments in and strategic alliances with companies, technologies, products, and services. Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances involve a number of special problems and risks, including, but not limited to:. <U+25CF>. difficulty integrating acquired technologies, products, services, operations and personnel with the existing businesses;. <U+25CF>. diversion of management's attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the businesses;. <U+25CF>. strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations;. <U+25CF>. difficulty implementing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting at businesses that we acquire, particularly if they are not located near our existing operations;. <U+25CF>. exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies;. <U+25CF>. potential costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits;. <U+25CF>. potential issuance of securities to equity holders of the company being acquired with rights that are superior to the rights of holders of our common stock or which may have a dilutive effect on our stockholders;. <U+25CF>. risk of loss of invested capital;. <U+25CF>. the need to incur additional debt or use cash; and. <U+25CF>. the requirement to record potentially significant additional future operating costs for the amortization of intangible assets.. 42. As a result of these or other problems and risks, businesses we acquire may not produce the revenues, earnings, or business synergies that we anticipated, and acquired products, services, or technologies might not perform as we expected. As a result, we may incur higher costs and realize lower revenues than we had anticipated. We may not be able to successfully address these problems and we cannot assure you that the acquisitions will be successfully identified and completed or that, if acquisitions are completed, the acquired businesses, products, services, or technologies will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other negative effects on our business.. Any of these risks can be greater if an acquisition is large relative to our size. Failure to effectively manage our growth through acquisitions could adversely affect our growth prospects, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property. Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies, and the intellectual property protection for our product candidates depends significantly on third parties.. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection in the US and other countries with respect to our product candidates or any future product candidate that we may license or acquire, their formulations and uses and the methods we use to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. We seek to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the United States and abroad related to our novel technologies and product candidates, and by maintenance of our trade secrets through proper procedures. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them in the market they are being used or developed. If any of our licensors or partners fails to appropriately prosecute and maintain patent protection for these product candidates, our ability to develop and commercialize these product candidates may be adversely affected and we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competing products. This failure to properly protect the intellectual property rights relating to these product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Currently, the composition of matter patent and several method of use patents for TG-1101 and TGR-1202 in various indications and settings have been applied for but have not yet been issued, or have been issued in certain territories but not under all jurisdictions in which such applications have been filed. While composition of matter patents have been granted in the US for TG-1101 and TGR-1202, no patents to date have been issued for our IRAK4 inhibitor, BET inhibitor, BTK inhibitor and anti-PD-L1 and anti-GITR programs. There can be no guarantee that any of these patents for which an application has already been filed, nor any patents filed in the future for our product candidates will be granted in any or all jurisdictions in which there were filed, or that all claims initially included in such patent applications will be allowed in the final patent that is issued. The patent application process is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that we or our partners will be successful in protecting our product candidates by obtaining and defending patents.. These risks and uncertainties include the following:. <U+25CF>. the patent applications that we or our partners file may not result in any patents being issued;. <U+25CF>. patents that may be issued or in-licensed may be challenged, invalidated, modified, revoked or circumvented, or otherwise may not provide any competitive advantage;. <U+25CF>. as of March 16, 2013, the U.S. converted from a \"first to invent\" to a \"first to file\" system. If we do not win the filing race, we will not be entitled to inventive priority;. <U+25CF>. our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do, and many of which have made significant investments in competing technologies, may seek, or may already have obtained, patents that will limit, interfere with, or eliminate its ability to make, use, and sell our potential products either in the United States or in international markets;. <U+25CF>. there may be significant pressure on the U.S. government and other international governmental bodies to limit the scope of patent protection both inside and outside the United States for disease treatments that prove successful as a matter of public policy regarding worldwide health concerns; and. <U+25CF>. countries other than the United States may have less restrictive patent laws than those upheld by United States courts, allowing foreign competitors the ability to exploit these laws to create, develop, and market competing products.. 43. If patents are not issued that protect our product candidates, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify any patentable aspects of our research and development output and methodology, and, even if we do, an opportunity to obtain patent protection may have passed. Given the uncertain and time-consuming process of filing patent applications and prosecuting them, it is possible that our product(s) or process(es) originally covered by the scope of the patent application may have changed or been modified, leaving our product(s) or process(es) without patent protection. If our licensors or we fail to obtain or maintain patent protection or trade secret protection for one or more product candidates or any future product candidate we may license or acquire, third parties may be able to leverage our proprietary information and products without risk of infringement, which could impair our ability to compete in the market and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. Moreover, should we enter into other collaborations we may be required to consult with or cede control to collaborators regarding the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of licensed patents. Therefore, these patents and applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business.. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. In addition, no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the US. The patent situation outside the US is even more uncertain. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the US, and we may fail to seek or obtain patent protection in all major markets. For example, European patent law restricts the patentability of methods of treatment of the human body more than US law does. Our pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology or products, in whole or in part, or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the US and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. For example, the federal courts of the US have taken an increasingly dim view of the patent eligibility of certain subject matter, such as naturally occurring nucleic acid sequences, amino acid sequences and certain methods of utilizing same, which include their detection in a biological sample and diagnostic conclusions arising from their detection. Such subject matter, which had long been a staple of the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industry to protect their discoveries, is now considered, with few exceptions, ineligible in the first instance for protection under the patent laws of the US. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in those licensed from a third-party.. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These include changes to transition from a \"first-to-invent\" system to a \"first-to-file\" system and to the way issued patents are challenged. The formation of the Patent Trial and Appeal Board now provides a quicker and less expensive process for challenging issued patents. The PTO recently developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first inventor-to-file provisions, only became effective on March 16, 2013. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Moreover, we may be subject to a third-party pre-issuance submission of prior art to the PTO, or become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review, post-grant review or interference proceedings challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts to establish priority of invention would be unsuccessful, resulting in a material adverse effect on our US patent position. An adverse determination in any such submission, patent office trial, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, render unenforceable, or invalidate, our patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third-party patent rights. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future product candidates.. 44. Even if our patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our owned or licensed patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner.. The issuance of a patent does not foreclose challenges to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability. Therefore, our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such challenges may result in loss of exclusivity or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such product candidates might expire before or shortly after such product candidates are commercialized. As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours.. In addition to patents, we and our partners also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position, particularly where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we have taken steps to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how, including entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, and confidential information and inventions agreements with employees, consultants and advisors, third parties may still obtain this information or we may be unable to protect its rights. If any of these events occurs, or we otherwise lose protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, the value of this information may be greatly reduced and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them, or those to whom they communicate it, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed.. Patent protection and other intellectual property protection are crucial to the success of our business and prospects, and there is a substantial risk that such protections will prove inadequate.. If we or our partners are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability and the ability of any of our future collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are developing products, some of which may be directed at claims that overlap with the subject matter of our intellectual property. For example, Roche has the Cabilly patents in the U.S. that block the commercialization of antibody products derived from a single cell line, like TG-1101. Also, Roche, Biogen Idec, and Genentech hold patents for the use of anti-CD20 antibodies utilized in the treatment of CLL in the U.S. While these patents have been challenged, to the best of our knowledge, those matters were settled in a way that permitted additional anti-CD20 antibodies to be marketed for CLL. If those patents are still enforced at the time we are intending to launch TG-1101, then we will need to either prevail in a litigation to challenge those patents or negotiate a settlement agreement with the patent holders. If we are unable to do so we may be forced to delay the launch of TG-1101 or launch at the risk of litigation for patent infringement, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 45. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or proprietary technologies may infringe. Similarly, there may be issued patents relevant to our product candidates of which we are not aware. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the US and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after a first filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot know with certainty whether we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions claimed in patents or pending patent applications that we own or licensed, or that we or our licensors were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions.. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or any collaborators of ours infringe their intellectual property rights, we may have to:. <U+25CF>. obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all;. <U+25CF>. abandon an infringing product candidate or redesign its products or processes to avoid infringement;. <U+25CF>. pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product or proprietary technology at issue infringes on or violates the third party's rights;. <U+25CF>. pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross licenses to our technology; and/or. <U+25CF>. defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our financial and management resources.. No assurance can be given that patents issued to third parties do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering its products, technology or methods that may encompass all or a portion of our products and methods. Given the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas or fields, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products or methods.. Other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire could be subject to similar risks and uncertainties.. We may need to license certain intellectual property from third parties, and such licenses may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms.. A third party may hold intellectual property, including patent rights that are important or necessary to the development and commercialization of our products. It may be necessary for us to use the patented or proprietary technology of third parties to commercialize our products, in which case we would be required to obtain a license from these third parties, whom may or may not be interested in granting such a license, on commercially reasonable terms, or our business could be harmed, possibly materially.. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which typically are very expensive, time-consuming and disruptive of day-to-day business operations. Any claims we assert against accused infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their patents; or provoke those parties to petition the PTO to institute inter parties review against the asserted patents, which may lead to a finding that all or some of the claims of the patent are invalid. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or our licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly. Furthermore, adverse results on US patents may affect related patents in our global portfolio. The adverse result could also put related patent applications at risk of not issuing.. 46. Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (\"PTO\") may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. We may be subject to claims that our consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their other clients or former employers to it.. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we engage the services of consultants to assist us in the development of our product candidates. Many of these consultants were previously employed at, may have previously been, or are currently providing consulting services to, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these consultants or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers or their former or current customers. Even if frivolous or unsubstantiated in nature, litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management, day-to-day business operations, and the implicated employee(s).. Risks Relating to Our Finances and Capital Requirements. We will need to raise additional capital to continue to operate our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $84.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, which in addition to the capital raised during the first quarter of 2018, we believe will be sufficient to fund the Company's planned operations into the second quarter of 2019. As a result, we will need additional capital to continue our operations beyond that time. Required additional sources of financing to continue our operations in the future might not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds on acceptable terms, we might be unable to complete planned preclinical and clinical trials or obtain approval of any of our product candidates from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development, reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts and forego attractive business opportunities. Any additional sources of financing will likely involve the issuance of our equity securities, which would have a dilutive effect to stockholders.. Currently, none of our product candidates have been approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority for sale. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from cash on hand and amounts raised in future offerings or financings.. 47. We have a history of operating losses, expect to continue to incur losses, and are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever.. We have not yet applied for or demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize a product candidate. Our short operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business prospects and consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a history of successfully developing and commercializing pharmaceutical or biotechnology products. Our prospects must be considered in light of the uncertainties, risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of operations and the competitive environment in which we operate.. We have never been profitable and, as of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $354.9 million. We have generated operating losses in all periods since we were incorporated. We expect to make substantial expenditures resulting in increased operating costs in the future and our accumulated deficit will increase significantly as we expand development and clinical trial efforts for our product candidates. Our losses have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and stockholders' equity. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with product development, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on an ongoing basis.. We have not generated any revenue from our product candidates and may never become profitable.. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate significant continuing revenues. To obtain significant continuing revenues, we must succeed, either alone or with others, in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for and manufacturing and marketing our product candidates (or utilize early access programs to generate such revenue). To date, our product candidates have not generated any revenues, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate any revenue. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. <U+25CF>. successful completion of preclinical studies of our product candidates;. <U+25CF>. successful commencement and completion of clinical trials of our product candidates and any future product candidates we advance into clinical trials;. <U+25CF>. achievement of regulatory approval for our product candidates and any future product candidates we advance into clinical trials (unless we successfully utilize early access programs which allow for revenue generation prior to approval);. <U+25CF>. manufacturing commercial quantities of our products at acceptable cost levels if regulatory approvals are obtained;. <U+25CF>. successful sales, distribution and marketing of our future products, if any; and. <U+25CF>. our entry into collaborative arrangements or co-promotion agreements to market and sell our products.. If we are unable to generate significant continuing revenues, we will not become profitable and we may be unable to continue our operations without continued funding.. We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our development programs or commercialization efforts.. We expect to spend substantial amounts on development, including significant amounts on conducting clinical trials for our product candidates, manufacturing clinical supplies and expanding our pharmaceutical development programs. We expect that our monthly cash used by operations will continue to increase for the next several years. We anticipate that we will continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future.. 48. We will require substantial additional funds to support our continued research and development activities, as well as the anticipated costs of preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory approvals, and eventual commercialization. We anticipate that we will incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We have based these estimates, however, on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could expend our available financial resources much faster than we currently expect. Further, we will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and continue to conduct clinical trials to support potential regulatory approval of marketing applications. Future capital requirements will also depend on the extent to which we acquire or in-license additional product candidates. We currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions.. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the following:. <U+25CF>. the progress of our clinical trials, including expenses to support the trials and milestone payments that may become payable under our license agreements;. <U+25CF>. the costs and timing of regulatory approvals;. <U+25CF>. the costs and timing of clinical and commercial manufacturing supply arrangements for each product candidate;. <U+25CF>. the costs of establishing sales or distribution capabilities;. <U+25CF>. the success of the commercialization of our products;. <U+25CF>. our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations, including licensing and other arrangements;. <U+25CF>. the costs involved in enforcing or defending patent claims or other intellectual property rights; and. <U+25CF>. the extent to which we in-license or invest in other indications or product candidates.. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue and achieve profitability, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. If we were to be unable to raise additional capital, we would have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue one or more of our pharmaceutical development programs. We also may be required to relinquish, license or otherwise dispose of rights to product candidates or products that it would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize itself on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available.. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through licensing or lending arrangements may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights.. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, the share ownership of existing stockholders will be diluted. Any future debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations, including limitations on our ability to incur liens or additional debt, pay dividends, redeem our stock, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions, among other restrictions.. In addition, if we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, our ability to achieve profitability or to respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited and we may be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate the development of one or more of our product candidates.. Our tax position could be affected by recent changes in U.S. federal income tax laws.. On December 22, 2017, legislation commonly referred to as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" was signed into law and is generally effective after December 31, 2017. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act makes significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax rules for taxation of individuals and business entities. Most of the changes applicable to individuals are temporary and apply only to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026. For corporations, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act reduces the top corporate income tax rate to 21% and repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax, limits the deduction for net interest expense, limits the deduction for net operating losses and eliminates net operating loss carrybacks, modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits, shifts the United States toward a more territorial tax system, and imposes new taxes to combat erosion of the U.S. federal income tax base. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act makes numerous other large and small changes to the federal income tax rules that may affect potential investors and may directly or indirectly affect us. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. However, the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on us and our affiliates, whether adverse or favorable, is uncertain, and may not become evident for some period of time. This document does not discuss such legislation or the manner in which it might affect us or purchasers of our common stock. Prospective investors are urged to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and any other regulatory or administrative developments and proposals, and their potential effects on them based on their unique circumstances.. 49. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. We are controlled by current officers, directors and principal stockholders.. Our directors, executive officers, their affiliates, and our principal stockholders beneficially own approximately 39% of our outstanding voting stock, including shares underlying outstanding options and warrants. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders, taken as a whole, have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders.. Our stock price is, and we expect it to remain, volatile, which could limit investors' ability to sell stock at a profit.. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include:. <U+25CF>. publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us;. <U+25CF>. delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing nonclinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of these trials;. <U+25CF>. achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us;. <U+25CF>. announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us;. <U+25CF>. developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents;. <U+25CF>. developments concerning our collaborations;. <U+25CF>. regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries;. <U+25CF>. economic or other crises and other external factors;. <U+25CF>. period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and other results of operations;. <U+25CF>. changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and. <U+25CF>. sales of our common stock.. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of your stock.. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends for the foreseeable future. You should not rely on an investment in our stock if you require dividend income. Further, you will only realize income on an investment in our stock in the event you sell or otherwise dispose of your shares at a price higher than the price you paid for your shares. Such a gain would result only from an increase in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable.. 50. Certain anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. This could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, or control us. These factors could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of our common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of such holders. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. Our restated bylaws eliminate the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Any of these provisions could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.. On July 18, 2014, the Board of Directors declared a distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock. The rights may have certain anti-takeover effects. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by the Board of Directors unless the offer is conditioned on a substantial number of rights being acquired. However, the rights should not interfere with any merger, statutory share exchange or other business combination approved by the Board of Directors since the rights may be terminated by us upon resolution of the Board of Directors. Thus, the rights are intended to encourage persons who may seek to acquire control of the Company to initiate such an acquisition through negotiations with the Board of Directors. However, the effect of the rights may be to discourage a third party from making a partial tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain a substantial equity position in the equity securities of, or seeking to obtain control of, the Company. To the extent any potential acquirers are deterred by the rights, the rights may have the effect of preserving incumbent management in office.. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management's attention and harm our business.. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business.. 51"
