[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. <U+FEFF>. The Corporation is exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the banking business. The more significant of these are addressed by the Corporation's written policies and procedures. While management is responsible for identifying, assessing and managing risk, the Board of Directors is responsible for risk oversight. The Board fulfills its risk oversight responsibilities largely through its committees. The following provides information regarding risk factors faced by the Corporation. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Corporation, or that the Corporation currently deems to be immaterial, could also have a material impact on the Corporation's business, financial condition, or results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 7. The inability to realize the full carrying value of the Bank's investment securities, loans and bank-owned life insurance could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. For investment securities, loans and bank-owned life insurance, there is always the risk that the Bank will be unable to realize their full carrying value. Credit risk in the Bank's securities and bank-owned life insurance portfolios has been addressed by adopting board committee approved investment and bank-owned life insurance policies that, among other things, limit terms, types and amounts of holdings and specify minimum required credit ratings. Allowable investments include direct obligations of the U.S. government and its agencies, highly rated obligations of states and political subdivisions, highly rated corporate obligations and bank-owned life insurance policies issued by highly rated insurance carriers. At the time of purchase, bonds of states and political subdivisions must generally be rated AA or better, notes of states and political subdivisions must generally be rated MIG-1 (or equivalent), commercial paper must be rated A-1 or P-1, and corporate bonds must be rated AA or better. Bank-owned life insurance may only be purchased from insurance carriers rated A or better. For carriers rated AA or better, cash surrender value is limited to 15% of Tier 1 capital, and for those carriers rated below AA, the limitation is 10% of Tier 1 capital. The cash surrender value of policies with all carriers, plus corporate bond holdings of such carriers, cannot exceed 25% of Tier 1 capital. Management periodically reviews the creditworthiness of all securities in the Bank's portfolio other than those issued by the U.S. government or its agencies and all bank-owned life insurance carriers. Any significant deterioration in the creditworthiness of an issuer or carrier will be analyzed and action taken if deemed appropriate.. <U+FEFF>. Credit risk in the Bank's loan portfolio has been addressed by adopting a board committee approved loan policy and by maintaining independent loan and appraisal review functions and an independent credit department. The loan policy contains what the Corporation believes to be prudent underwriting guidelines, which include, among other things, specific loan approval requirements, maximum loan terms, loan to appraised value and debt service coverage limits for mortgage loans, credit score minimums, guarantor support and environmental study requirements.. <U+FEFF>. The credit risk within the Bank's loan portfolio primarily stems from factors such as changes in the borrower's financial condition, credit concentrations,  changes in collateral values, economic conditions and environmental contamination. The Bank's commercial loans, including those secured by mortgages, are primarily made to small and medium-sized businesses. Such loans sometimes involve a higher degree of risk than those to larger companies because such businesses may have shorter operating histories, higher debt-to-equity ratios and may lack sophistication in internal record keeping and financial and operational controls. In addition, most of the Bank's loans are made to businesses and consumers on Long Island and in the boroughs of New York City, and a large percentage of these loans are mortgage loans secured by properties located in those areas. At December 31, 2017, residential mortgage loans, including home equity lines of credit, amounted to approximately $1.6 billion and comprised approximately 58% of loans secured by real estate. The primary source of repayment for residential mortgage loans is cash flows from individual borrowers and co-borrowers. Also, at December 31, 2017, multifamily loans amounted to approximately $683 million and comprised approximately 57% of the Bank's total commercial mortgage portfolio and approximately 24% of the Bank's total loans secured by real estate. The primary source of repayment for multifamily loans is cash flows from the underlying properties, a substantial portion of which are rent stabilized or rent controlled. Such cash flows for both residential mortgage and multifamily loans are dependent on the strength of the local economy.. <U+FEFF>. Environmental impairment of properties securing mortgage loans is always a risk. However, at the present time, the Bank is not aware of any existing loans in the portfolio where there is environmental pollution originating on or near the mortgaged properties that would materially affect the value of the portfolio.. <U+FEFF>. Uncertainty, changes in accounting rules and regulatory principals and other factors could result in a need to increase the Bank's Allowance for Loan Losses and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses in an amount believed to be adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in its loan portfolio. The maintenance of the allowance for loan losses is governed by a board committee approved allowance for loan and lease losses policy. In arriving at the allowance for loan losses, an impairment analysis is performed on each loan where it is probable that the borrower will not be able to make all required principal and interest payments according to contractual terms. In addition, incurred losses for all other loans in the Bank's portfolio are determined on a pooled basis taking into account, among other things, historical loss experience, delinquencies, economic conditions, changes in value of underlying collateral, trends in nature and volume of loans, concentrations of credit, changes in lending policies and procedures, experience, ability and depth of lending staff, changes in quality of the loan review function, environmental risks and loan risk ratings. Because estimating the allowance for loan losses is highly subjective in nature and involves a variety of estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain, there is the risk that management's estimate may not accurately capture probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio. The Bank's allowance may need to be increased based on, among other things, additional information that comes to light after the estimate is made, changes in circumstances or a recommendation by bank regulators based on their review of the Bank's loan portfolio. The impact of one or more of these factors on the Bank's allowance could result in the need for a significant increase in the Bank's provision for loan losses and have a material adverse impact on the Bank's financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 8. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted an Accounting Standards Update (\"ASU\") 2016-13, that will be effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019. This standard changes the accounting methodology used to determine the allowance for loan losses from an incurred loss model to a current expected credit loss (\"CECL\") model. The CECL model will require the Bank to maintain at each periodic reporting date an allowance for loan losses in an amount that is equal to its estimate of expected lifetime credit losses on the loans in its portfolio. Utilization of the CECL model may require the Bank to increase its allowance for loan losses and will increase the types and amount of data the Bank will need to collect and consider in determining an appropriate level for its allowance for loan losses.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in interest rates, the shape of the yield curve and a sustained period of low interest rates could negatively impact our earnings.. <U+FEFF>. The Bank's results of operations are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations and having assets and liabilities that have different maturity, repricing and prepayment/withdrawal characteristics. The Bank defines interest rate risk as the risk that the Bank's net interest income and/or economic value of equity (\"EVE\") will change when interest rates change. The Bank has addressed interest rate risk by adopting a board committee approved interest rate risk policy which sets forth quantitative risk limits and calls for monitoring and controlling interest rate risk through a variety of techniques including the use of interest rate sensitivity models and traditional repricing gap analysis. Management utilizes a consultant with expertise in bank asset liability management to aid them in these efforts.. <U+FEFF>. A sustained period of low interest rates and a flattening of the yield curve over the past several years have resulted in continued pressure on our net interest margin. The historic low interest rate environment appears to be ending as the Federal Reserve Bank (\"FRB\") has slowly changed from an accommodative monetary policy to a tightening of monetary policy. The FRB has increased the federal funds target rate 100 basis points since December 2016 and has stated that it plans to increase rates an additional three times in 2018 if economic growth continues to expand and the unemployment rate remains at historic lows.. <U+FEFF>. Increases in the federal funds target rate have already begun to exert upward pressure on non-maturity deposit liability rates and the cost of overnight borrowings.  Should short-term rates continue to increase and a further flattening of the yield curve were to occur, the Bank's loans and investment securities could reprice slower than its interest-bearing liabilities, which would have a negative effect on net interest income. However, over a longer period of time, the effect on the Bank's earnings should be positive primarily because with the passage of time the yield curve should steepen and more loans and investment securities would reprice at the higher rates and there would be no offsetting increase in interest expense for those interest-earning assets funded by noninterest-bearing checking deposits and capital.. <U+FEFF>. When interest rates decline, borrowers tend to refinance higher rate loans at lower rates and prepayments on mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are elevated. Under those circumstances, the Bank may not be able to reinvest the resulting cash flows in new interest-earning assets with rates as favorable as those on the prepaid loans or investment securities. In addition, subject to the floors contained in many of the Bank's loan agreements, the Bank's loans at variable interest rates may adjust to lower rates at their reset dates. While lower rates could reduce the Bank's cost of funds on non-maturity deposits, certificates of deposits and FHLB advances, the cost savings would be somewhat constrained as overall funding rates have not increased significantly from the decade-long historic low interest rate environment and a significant portion of the Bank's funding comes from noninterest-bearing checking deposits and capital.. <U+FEFF>. The Bank may not have sufficient funds or funding sources to meet liquidity demands.. <U+FEFF>. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank will not have sufficient funds to accommodate loan growth, meet deposit outflows or make contractual payments on borrowing arrangements. The Bank has addressed liquidity risk by adopting a board committee approved liquidity policy and liquidity contingency plan that set forth quantitative risk limits and a protocol for responding to liquidity stress conditions should they arise. The Bank encounters significant competition in its market area from branches of larger banks, various community banks, credit unions and other financial services organizations. This, in addition to consumer confidence in the equity markets, could cause deposit outflows, and such outflows could be significant.. <U+FEFF>. The Bank has both internal and external sources of liquidity that can be used to fund loan growth and accommodate deposit outflows. The Bank's primary internal sources of liquidity are overnight investments, maturities and monthly payments on its investment securities and loan portfolios, operations and investment securities designated as available-for-sale.. <U+FEFF>. The Bank is a member of the FRB of New York and the FHLB of New York, and has a federal funds line with a commercial bank. In addition to customer deposits, the Bank's primary external sources of liquidity are secured borrowings from the FHLB of New York and FRB of New York. In addition, the Bank can purchase overnight federal funds under its existing line. However, the Bank's FRB of New York membership, FHLB of New York membership and federal funds line do not represent legal commitments to extend credit to the Bank. The amount that the Bank can potentially borrow is currently dependent on, among other things, the amount of unencumbered eligible securities and loans that the Bank can use as collateral and the collateral margins required by the lenders.. <U+FEFF>. 9. A decline in the Corporation's market capitalization could negatively impact the price, trading volume and liquidity of our common stock.. <U+FEFF>. The Corporation's market capitalization on December 31, 2017 was approximately $703 million, exceeding the $500 million market capitalization which may make the Corporation's common stock more attractive to certain investors. In addition, the Corporation's common stock is included in the Russell 3000 and Russell 2000 Indexes, which are reconstituted annually. Upon reconstitution in May 2017, the average market capitalization of companies in the Russell 2000 Index was $2.0 billion, the median market capitalization was $784 million, the capitalization of the largest company in the index was $3.4 billion and the capitalization of the smallest company in the index was $144 million. The Corporation believes that a market capitalization in excess of $500 million and inclusion in the Russell indexes have positively impacted the price, trading volume and liquidity of its common stock. Conversely, if the Corporation's market capitalization falls below the minimum necessary to be included in the indexes at any future reconstitution date, the opposite could occur.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in national and local economic conditions could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Although the economy has improved, national and local economic conditions could deteriorate. This poses risks to both the Corporation's business and the banking industry as a whole. Specific risks include reduced loan demand from quality borrowers; increased competition for loans; increased loan loss provisions resulting from deterioration in loan quality; reduced net interest income and net interest margin caused by a sustained period of low interest rates; interest rate volatility; price competition for deposits due to liquidity concerns or otherwise; volatile equity markets; and higher cost to attract capital to support growth.. <U+FEFF>. In addition to the significant risks posed by economic conditions, the Corporation could experience deposit outflows as national and local economic conditions improve and investors pursue alternative investment opportunities.. <U+FEFF>. The Bank's internal controls and those of its third-party service providers may be ineffective or circumvented, resulting in significant financial loss, adverse action by governmental bodies and damaged reputation.. <U+FEFF>. The Corporation relies on its system of internal controls and the internal controls of its third-party service providers (\"TPSPs\") to ensure that transactions are captured, recorded, processed and reported properly; confidential customer information is safeguarded; and fraud by employees and persons outside the Corporation is detected and prevented. The Corporation's internal controls and/or those of its TPSPs may prove to be ineffective or employees of the Corporation and/or its TPSPs may fail to comply with or override the controls, either of which could result in significant financial loss to the Corporation, adverse action by bank regulatory authorities or the SEC and damage to the Corporation's reputation.. <U+FEFF>. The Bank's inability to keep pace with technological advances could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The delivery of financial products and services has increasingly become technology-driven. The Bank's ability to competitively meet the needs of its customers in a cost-efficient manner is dependent on its ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. System failures, interruptions and security breaches could negatively impact our customers, reputation, and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Bank outsources most of its data processing to TPSPs. If TPSPs encounter difficulties, or if the Bank has difficulty communicating with them, the Bank's ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and the Bank's business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through TPSPs. The Bank's website and online banking products have been the target of cyber attacks in the past. While the Bank and its TPSPs believe they have successfully blocked attempts to infiltrate the Bank's systems, there is always the possibility that successful attacks have not yet been identified and that future attacks may not be blocked.  A significant cybersecurity incident may be determined to be material insider information and would prohibit corporate insiders from trading in Company stock until appropriate public disclosures are made.. <U+FEFF>. 10. The Board Audit Committee has oversight responsibility for cybersecurity risk, which it administers through periodic meetings with management and the approval of information technology and cybersecurity policies.  In this regard, board committee approved policies address information security, IT vulnerability assessment, cybersecurity incident response and electronic communications.  These policies are intended to prevent, detect and respond to cybersecurity incidents. In addition, these policies prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions and security breaches and rely on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary for the processing of data. The Bank makes use of logon and user access controls, multifactor and out of band authentication, transaction limits, firewalls, antivirus software, intrusion protection monitoring, vulnerability scans and independent penetration testing. The Bank also ensures employee awareness of cybersecurity trends. System failures or interruptions are addressed in the board committee approved emergency and disaster recovery policy and business continuity policy. In addition, for TPSPs of data processing and other significant services, the board committee approved vendor management policy and procedures require reviews of audit reports prepared by independent registered public accounting firms regarding their financial condition and the effectiveness of their internal controls.. <U+FEFF>. These precautions may not protect our systems from all compromises or breaches of security and there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. The Bank carries a cyber liability insurance policy to mitigate the amount of any financial loss. However, the occurrence of any systems failure, interruption or breach of security could damage the Bank's reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose the Bank to civil litigation and possible financial liability beyond any insurance coverage. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The inability to attract, motivate or retain qualified key personnel could negatively impact our performance.. <U+FEFF>. The Corporation's future success depends in part on the continued service of its executive officers and other key members of management and its staff, as well as its ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain additional highly qualified employees. The loss of services of key personnel and our inability to timely recruit or promote qualified replacements could have an adverse effect on the Bank's business, operating results and financial condition. Their skills, knowledge of the Bank's market and years of industry experience may be difficult to replace.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in laws, government regulation and supervisory guidance could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Corporation and the Bank are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by, among others, the Federal Reserve Board, OCC and FDIC. The FDIC also insures the Bank's deposits. Regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. Regulatory requirements affect virtually all aspects of the Corporation's and the Bank's business, including, among other things, investment practices, lending practices, deposit offerings and capital levels. The regulators have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including imposing restrictions on bank operations and expansion plans, imposing deposit insurance premiums and other assessments, setting required levels for the allowance for loan losses, capital and liquidity, and imposing restrictions on the ability to pay cash dividends and other capital distributions to stockholders. Changes in laws, regulations and supervisory guidance, or the Corporation's and the Bank's compliance with these laws and regulations as judged by the regulators, could have a significant negative impact on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation manages the risk of noncompliance with laws and regulations by having board committee approved compliance policies, hiring and retaining employees with the experience and skills necessary to address compliance on an ongoing basis, and consulting, when necessary with legal counsel and other outside experts on compliance matters.. <U+FEFF>. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws.. <U+FEFF>. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\"), which was enacted in December 2017, is likely to have both positive and negative effects on our financial performance. For example, the new legislation will result in a reduction in the federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, which will have a favorable impact on our earnings and capital generation abilities. However, the new legislation also enacted limitations on certain deductions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single-family residential real estate. These limitations include (1) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (2) the elimination of interest deductions for home equity loans, (3) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense and (4) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.. <U+FEFF>. The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and the valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. In addition, these recent changes may also have a disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with high residential home prices and high state and local taxes, like New York. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of properties securing loans in our portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 11. Weather-related and terrorist events could cause significant harm to our business.. <U+FEFF>. Weather-related events have adversely impacted our market area, especially flood prone areas located near coastal waters and otherwise. Significant flooding and other storm-related damage may become more common in the future. Financial institutions have been, and continue to be, targets of terrorist threats aimed at compromising operating and communication systems, and the metropolitan New York area remains a central target for potential acts of terrorism. Weather-related and terrorist events could cause significant damage, impact the stability of our facilities and result in additional operating expenses, impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, reduce the value of collateral securing repayment of our loans and result in the loss of revenue. While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. Competition within our market area could limit our ability to increase interest-earning assets.. <U+FEFF>. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokers, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, large competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Competitive forces may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. For additional information see \"Item 1  -  Business  -  Competition.\""
