[1] "ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. The following describes the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face but do represent those risks. 11. and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our future growth depends primarily on our ability to open new restaurants and is subject to many unpredictable factors.. We expect that one of the key means of achieving our growth strategy for the foreseeable future will be through opening new restaurants and operating those restaurants on a profitable basis. We opened 38 restaurants in 2017, consisting of 32 company-operated restaurants and six franchised/licensed locations and we opened 31 restaurants in 2016, consisting of 26 company-operated restaurants and five franchised/licensed locations. However, we may not be able to open new restaurants as quickly as planned. In the past, we have experienced delays in opening some restaurants due to construction delays in new developments. Such delays could happen again in future restaurant openings. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy and our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we operate more restaurants, our rate of expansion relative to the size of our restaurant base will decline.. In addition, one of our biggest challenges is locating and securing an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. Competition for those sites is intense, and other restaurant and retail concepts that compete for those sites may have economic models that permit them to bid more aggressively for those sites than we can. There is no guarantee that a sufficient number of suitable sites will be available in desirable areas or on terms that are acceptable to us in order to achieve our growth plan. Our ability to open new restaurants also depends on other factors, including:. •  negotiating leases with acceptable terms;. •  identifying, hiring and training qualified employees in each local market;. •  identifying and securing an appropriate site;. •  timely delivery of leased premises to us from our landlords and punctual commencement of our build-out construction activities;. •  managing construction and development costs of new restaurants, particularly in competitive markets;. •  obtaining construction materials and labor at acceptable costs;. •  maintaining qualified real estate and construction resources to source and manage construction of new sites;. •  securing required governmental approvals, permits and licenses (including construction and other permits) in a timely manner and responding effectively to any changes in local, state or federal laws and regulations; and. •  avoiding the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities.. Our progress in opening new restaurants from quarter to quarter may occur at an uneven rate. If we do not open new restaurants in the future according to our current plans, the delay could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in the highly competitive restaurant industry. If we are not able to compete effectively, it will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face significant competition from restaurants in the fast casual dining and traditional fast food segments of the restaurant industry. These segments are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, taste, price, food quality and presentation, service, location and the ambience and condition of each restaurant. Our competition includes a variety of locally-owned restaurants and national and regional chains offering dine-in, carry-out, delivery and catering services. Many of our competitors have existed longer and have a more established market presence with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. Among our competitors are a number of multi-unit, multi-market, fast casual restaurant concepts, some of which are expanding nationally. As we expand, we will face competition from these restaurant concepts as well as new competitors that strive to compete with our market segments. These competitors may have, among other things, lower operating costs, better. 12. locations, better facilities, better management, more effective marketing and more efficient operations. Additionally, we face the risk that new or existing competitors will copy our business model, menu options, presentation or ambience, among other things.. Any inability to successfully compete with the restaurants in our markets and other restaurant segments will place downward pressure on our customer traffic and may prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenue and profitability. Consumer tastes, nutritional and dietary trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants often affect the restaurant business, and our competitors may react more efficiently and effectively to those conditions. Several of our competitors compete by offering menu items that are specifically identified as low in carbohydrates, gluten-free or healthier for consumers. In addition, many of our traditional fast food restaurant competitors offer lower-priced menu options or meal packages, or have loyalty programs. Our sales could decline due to changes in popular tastes, \"fad\" food regimens, such as low carbohydrate diets, and media attention on new restaurants. In addition, both fast food and casual dining segments have implemented deep discounting strategies to attract consumers. If we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our traffic, sales and restaurant contribution could decline which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks.. We have opened and plan to continue opening restaurants in markets where we have little or no operating experience. Restaurants we open in new markets may take longer to reach expected sales and profit levels on a consistent basis and may have higher construction, occupancy or operating costs than restaurants we open in existing markets, thereby affecting our overall profitability. New markets may have competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns that are more difficult to predict or satisfy than our existing markets. We may need to make greater investments than we originally planned in advertising and promotional activity in new markets to build brand awareness. We may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate and keep qualified employees who share our vision, passion and culture. We may also incur higher costs from entering new markets if, for example, we assign regional managers to manage comparatively fewer restaurants than in more developed markets. As a result, these new restaurants may be less successful or may achieve AUVs at a slower rate. We may not be able to successfully develop critical market presence for our brand in new geographical markets, as we may be unable to find and secure attractive locations, build name recognition or attract new customers. Inability to fully implement or failure to successfully execute our plans to enter new markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. New restaurants, once opened, may not be profitable, and the increases in average restaurant revenue and comparable restaurant sales that we have experienced in the past may not be indicative of future results.. Some of our restaurants open with an initial start-up period of higher than normal sales volumes, which subsequently decrease to stabilized levels. Typically, our new restaurants have stabilized sales after approximately 13 to 26 weeks of operation, at which time the restaurant's sales typically begin to grow on a consistent basis. However, we cannot assure you that this will occur for future restaurant openings. In new markets, the length of time before average sales for new restaurants stabilize is less predictable and can be longer as a result of our limited knowledge of these markets and consumers' limited awareness of our brand. In addition, our average restaurant revenue and comparable restaurant sales may not increase at the rates achieved over the past several years. Our ability to operate new restaurants profitably and increase average restaurant revenue and comparable restaurant sales will depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. •  consumer awareness and understanding of our brand;. •  general economic conditions, which can affect restaurant traffic, local labor costs and prices we pay for the food products and other supplies we use;. •  changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending;. •  difficulties obtaining or maintaining adequate relationships with distributors or suppliers in new markets;. •  increases in prices for commodities, including beef and other proteins;. 13. •  inefficiency in our labor costs as the staff gains experience;. •  competition, either from our competitors in the restaurant industry or our own restaurants;. •  temporary and permanent site characteristics of new restaurants;. •  changes in government regulation; and. •  other unanticipated increases in costs, any of which could give rise to delays or cost overruns.. If our new restaurants do not perform as planned, our business and future prospects could be harmed. In addition, an inability to achieve our expected average restaurant revenue would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our sales growth and ability to achieve profitability could be adversely affected if comparable restaurant sales are less than we expect.. The level of comparable restaurant sales, which reflect the change in year-over-year sales for restaurants in the accounting period following their 18th full period of operations, will affect our sales growth and will continue to be a critical factor affecting our ability to generate profits because the profit margin on comparable restaurant sales is generally higher than the profit margin on new restaurant sales. Our past history of positive comparable restaurant sales is not necessarily indicative of future results. Our ability to increase comparable restaurant sales depends in part on our ability to successfully implement our initiatives to build sales. It is possible such initiatives will not be successful, that we will not achieve our target comparable restaurant sales growth or that the change in comparable restaurant sales could be negative, which may cause a decrease in sales growth and ability to achieve profitability that would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section entitled \"Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Key Measures We Use to Evaluate Our Performance - Comparable Restaurant Sales Growth.\". Our long-term success is highly dependent on our ability to effectively identify and secure appropriate sites for new restaurants.. We intend to develop new restaurants in our existing markets, expand our footprint into adjacent markets and selectively enter into new markets. In order to build new restaurants, both traditional and drive-thru locations, we must first identify markets where we can enter or expand our footprint, taking into account numerous factors, including the location of our current restaurants, local economic trends, population density, area demographics and geography. Then we must secure appropriate restaurant sites, which is one of our biggest challenges. There are numerous factors involved in identifying and securing an appropriate restaurant site, including:. •  evaluating size of the site, traffic patterns, local retail and business attractions and infrastructure that will drive high levels of customer traffic and sales;. •  competition in new markets, including competition for restaurant sites;. •  financial conditions affecting developers and potential landlords, such as the effects of macro-economic conditions and the credit market, which could lead to these parties delaying or canceling development projects (or renovations of existing projects), in turn reducing the number of appropriate restaurant sites available;. •  developers and potential landlords obtaining licenses or permits for development projects on a timely basis;. •  proximity of potential restaurant sites to existing restaurants;. •  anticipated commercial, residential and infrastructure development near the potential restaurant site; and. •  availability of acceptable lease terms and arrangements.. Given the numerous factors involved, we may not be able to successfully identify and secure attractive restaurant sites in existing, adjacent or new markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Changes in food and supply costs or failure to receive frequent deliveries of food ingredients and other supplies could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs, and our ability to maintain our menu depends in part on our ability to acquire ingredients that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. Shortages or interruptions in the availability of certain supplies caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, food contamination, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of our ingredients, which could harm our operations. Any increase in the prices of the food products most critical to our menu, such as beef, chicken, fresh produce, soybean oil and other proteins, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Particularly, the cost of ground beef is our largest commodity expenditure and accounts for approximately 17% of our total food and paper costs, or 5% of our total costs in the fiscal year ended December 26, 2017. As of December 26, 2017, we did not purchase beef with fixed pricing or use futures contracts or other financial risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to potential price fluctuations. The market for ground beef is particularly volatile and is subject to extreme price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, the price of feed, industry demand, energy demand and other factors. Although we try to manage the impact that these fluctuations have on our operating results, we remain susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, seasonal fluctuations, weather conditions, demand, food safety concerns, generalized infectious diseases, product recalls and government regulations. Therefore, material increases in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our menu, particularly ground beef, could adversely affect our operating results or cause us to consider changes to our product delivery strategy and adjustments to our menu pricing.. If any of our distributors or suppliers performs inadequately, or our distribution or supply relationships are disrupted for any reason, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Although we often enter into contracts for the purchase of food products and supplies, we do not have long-term contracts for the purchase of all of such food products and supplies. As a result, we may not be able to anticipate or react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices or menu prices, which could cause our operating results to deteriorate. If we cannot replace or engage distributors or suppliers who meet our specifications in a short period of time, that could increase our expenses and cause shortages of food and other items at our restaurants, which could cause a restaurant to remove items from its menu. If that were to happen, affected restaurants could experience significant reductions in sales during the shortage or thereafter, if customers change their dining habits as a result. In addition, because we provide moderately priced food, we may choose not to, or may be unable to, pass along commodity price increases to consumers, including price increases with respect to ground beef. These potential changes in food and supply costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business and operating results.. Our growth plan includes opening a number of new restaurants. Our existing restaurant management systems, financial and management controls and information systems may be inadequate to support our planned expansion. Managing our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls and to hire, train and retain managers and team members. We may not respond quickly enough to the changing demands that our expansion will impose on our management, restaurant teams and existing infrastructure, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Opening new restaurants in existing markets may negatively impact sales at our existing restaurants.. The consumer target area of our restaurants varies by location, depending on a number of factors, including population density, other local retail and business attractions, area demographics and geography. As a result, the opening of a new restaurant in or near markets in which we already have restaurants could adversely impact sales at these existing restaurants. Existing restaurants could also make it more difficult to build our consumer base for a new restaurant in the same market. Our core business strategy does not entail opening new restaurants that we believe will materially affect sales at our existing restaurants, but we may selectively open new restaurants in and around areas of existing restaurants that are operating at or near capacity to effectively serve our customers.. 15. The planned increase in the number of our restaurants may make our future results unpredictable.. We opened 38 restaurants in 2017, consisting of 32 company-operated restaurants and six franchised/licensed locations. We intend to continue to increase the number of our restaurant openings in the next several years. This growth strategy and the substantial investment associated with the development of each new traditional or drive-thru restaurant may cause our operating results to fluctuate unpredictably or have an adverse effect on our profits. In addition, we may find that our restaurant concept has limited appeal in new markets or we may experience a decline in the popularity of our restaurant concept in the markets in which we operate. Newly opened restaurants or our future markets and restaurants may not be successful or our system-wide average restaurant revenue may not increase at historical rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We will have limited control over our franchisees or licensees and our franchisees or licensees could take actions that could harm our business.. A part of our expected growth strategy is to partner with franchisees. We have limited control over our franchisees and licensees, and they could take actions that could harm our business. Franchisees and licensees are independent contractors and are not our employees, and we will not exercise control over their day-to-day operations. We plan to provide training and support to franchisees and licensees, but the quality of franchised or licensed restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Consequently, franchisees and licensees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. If franchisees or licensees do not meet our standards and requirements, our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other franchisees or licensees, may suffer materially and system-wide sales could decline significantly.. Franchisees and licensees, as independent business operators, may from time to time disagree with us and our strategies regarding the business or our interpretation of our, and their, rights and obligations under franchise and development agreements or license agreements, respectively. This may lead to disputes with our franchisees or licensees in the future. These disputes may divert the attention of our management and our franchisees or licensees from operating our restaurants and affect our image and reputation and our ability to attract franchisees or licensees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There are seven Habit Burger Grill locations in Santa Barbara County, California, operated under a license agreement by our former chief executive officer, for which we receive no royalties or revenue.. Our former chief executive officer, Brent Reichard, and our co-founder, Bruce Reichard, operate seven The Habit Burger Grill restaurants in Santa Barbara County, California through Reichard Bros. Enterprises, Inc., pursuant to license agreements entered into in 2004, as amended and restated in 2007 and as further amended in October 2014 (the \"Reichard License\"). We do not receive any royalties or other revenue from these locations, and pursuant to the terms of the Reichard License, we are prohibited from opening any company-operated locations in Santa Barbara County, California. Reichard Bros. Enterprises, Inc. is also entitled, pursuant to the terms of the Reichard License, to open additional locations in Santa Barbara County, California. The Reichard License contains quality control provisions, and provides that we may terminate the Reichard License if Reichard Bros. Enterprises, Inc. fails to comply with any material provisions thereof. Nevertheless, if Reichard Bros. Enterprises, Inc. does not successfully operate its licensed restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Negative publicity relating to one of our restaurants, including one of our franchised/licensed restaurants, could reduce sales at some or all of our other restaurants.. Our success is dependent in part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brand, consumers' connection to our brand and positive relationships with our franchisees. We may, from time to time, be faced with negative publicity relating to food quality, public health concerns, restaurant facilities, customer complaints or litigation alleging illness or injury, health inspection scores, integrity of our or our suppliers' food processing, employee relationships or other matters, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are held to be. 16. responsible. The negative impact of adverse publicity relating to one restaurant may extend far beyond the restaurant or franchise involved to affect some or all of our other restaurants. The risk of negative publicity is particularly great with respect to our franchised restaurants because we are limited in the manner in which we can regulate them, especially on a real-time basis. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years can further amplify any negative publicity that could be generated by such incidents. A similar risk exists with respect to unrelated food service businesses, if consumers associate those businesses with our own operations.. Additionally, employee claims against us based on, among other things, wage and hour violations, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination may also create negative publicity that could adversely affect us and divert our financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations. A significant increase in the number of these claims or an increase in the number of successful claims would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consumer demand for our products and our brand's value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters create negative publicity or otherwise erode consumer confidence in us or our products, which would likely result in lower sales and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Governmental regulation may adversely affect our ability to open new restaurants or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to various federal, state and local regulations, including those relating to building and zoning requirements and those relating to the preparation and sale of food. The development and operation of restaurants depends to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations and requirements. Our restaurants are also subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food and occupational safety and other agencies. We may experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses, approvals or permits for our restaurants, which could delay planned restaurant openings or affect the operations at our existing restaurants. In addition, stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations.. We are subject to the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act (the \"ADA\") and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas, including our restaurants. We may in the future have to modify restaurants by adding access ramps or redesigning certain architectural fixtures, for example, to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons. The expenses associated with these modifications could be material.. Our operations are also subject to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act, which governs worker health and safety, the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages and overtime, and a variety of similar federal, state and local laws that govern these and other employment law matters. We and our franchisees may also be subject to lawsuits from our employees, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or others alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters, and we have been a party to such matters in the past. Additional, federal, state and local proposals related to paid sick leave or similar matters could, if implemented, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There is also a potential for increased regulation of certain food establishments in the United States, where compliance with a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (\"HACCP\") approach would be required. HACCP refers to a management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of potential hazards from production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product. Many states have required restaurants to develop and implement HACCP Systems, and the United States government continues to expand the sectors of the food industry that must adopt and implement HACCP programs. For example, the Food Safety Modernization Act, signed into law in January 2011, granted the U.S. Food and Drug Administration new authority regarding the safety of the entire food system, including through increased inspections and mandatory food recalls. Although restaurants are specifically exempted from or not directly implicated by some of these new requirements, we anticipate that the new requirements may impact our industry. Additionally, our suppliers may initiate or otherwise be subject to food recalls that may impact the availability of certain products, result in adverse publicity or require us to take actions that could be costly for us or otherwise impact our business.. 17. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations, or our inability to respond effectively to significant regulatory or public policy issues, could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and, therefore, have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. In addition, certain laws, including the ADA, could require us to expend significant funds to make modifications to our restaurants if we failed to comply with applicable standards. Compliance with the aforementioned laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Food safety and foodborne illness concerns could have an adverse effect on our business.. We cannot guarantee that our internal controls and training will be fully effective in preventing all food safety issues at our restaurants, including any occurrences of foodborne illnesses such as salmonella, E. coli and hepatitis A. Our quality assurance, health and sanitation internal controls and conditions are inspected by an internal team on a quarterly basis. If the internal team fails to report unsafe or unsanitary conditions or insufficient internal controls, we cannot guarantee that our internal controls will be fully effective in preventing all food safety issues. In addition, there is no guarantee that our franchise restaurants will maintain the high levels of internal controls and training we require at our company-operated restaurants. Furthermore, we and our franchisees rely on third-party vendors, making it difficult to monitor food safety compliance and increasing the risk that foodborne illness would affect multiple locations rather than a single restaurant. Some foodborne illness incidents could be caused by third-party vendors and transporters outside of our control. New illnesses resistant to our current precautions may develop in the future, or diseases with long incubation periods could arise, that could give rise to claims or allegations on a retroactive basis. One or more instances of foodborne illness in any of our restaurants or markets or related to food products we sell could negatively affect our restaurant revenue nationwide if highly publicized on national media outlets or through social media. This risk exists even if it were later determined that the illness was wrongly attributed to us or one of our restaurants. A number of other restaurant chains have experienced incidents related to foodborne illnesses that have had a material adverse effect on their operations. The occurrence of a similar incident at one or more of our restaurants, or negative publicity or public speculation about an incident, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could be party to litigation that could distract management, increase our expenses or subject us to material monetary damages or other remedies.. Our customers occasionally file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging we caused an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants, or that we have problems with food quality or operations. We may also be subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, equal opportunity, harassment, discrimination and similar matters, and we could become subject to class action or other lawsuits related to these or different matters in the future. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to such claims, and some of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A judgment in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also materially and adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to a growing number of claims based on the nutritional content of food products sold and disclosure and advertising practices. We may also be subject to this type of proceeding in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the fast casual or traditional fast food segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Compliance with environmental laws may negatively affect our business.. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning waste disposal, pollution, protection of the environment, and the presence, discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous or toxic substances. These environmental laws provide for significant fines and penalties for noncompliance and liabilities for remediation, sometimes without regard to whether the owner or operator of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of hazardous toxic substances. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of, or actual or alleged exposure to, such hazardous or toxic substances at, on or from our restaurants. Environmental conditions relating to releases of hazardous substances at a prior, existing or future restaurant could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, environmental laws, and the administration, interpretation and enforcement thereof, are subject to change and may become more stringent in the future, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in economic conditions and adverse weather and other unforeseen conditions, particularly in the markets in which we operate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The restaurant industry depends on consumer discretionary spending. The United States in general or the specific markets in which we operate may suffer from depressed economic activity, recessionary economic cycles, higher fuel or energy costs, low consumer confidence, high levels of unemployment, reduced home values, increases in home foreclosures, investment losses, personal bankruptcies, reduced access to credit or other economic factors that may affect consumer discretionary spending. Traffic in our restaurants could decline if consumers choose to dine out less frequently or reduce the amount they spend on meals while dining out. Negative economic conditions might cause consumers to make long-term changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently on a permanent basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, changes in economic conditions, adverse weather conditions or other unforeseen conditions in states in which we operate, or in the future may operate, could have a disproportionate impact on our overall results of operations. In particular, our business is significantly concentrated in Southern California, and as a result, we could be disproportionately affected by conditions specific to this market.. Specifically, our restaurants in Southern California generated, in the aggregate, approximately 54.4% of our revenue in fiscal year 2017, approximately 56.9% in fiscal year 2016 and approximately 59% in fiscal year 2015. Therefore, adverse changes in demographic, unemployment, economic or regulatory conditions in Southern California or the State of California overall, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 2017, unemployment in California was 4.3% compared to the U.S. unemployment rate of 4.1%. We believe increases in unemployment will have a negative impact on traffic in our restaurants. As a result of our concentration in Southern California, we may be disproportionately affected by these adverse economic conditions compared to other chain restaurants.. Furthermore, regional occurrences in the markets in which we operate, such as local strikes, terrorist attacks, increases in energy prices, adverse weather conditions, tornadoes, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, droughts, fires or other natural or man-made disasters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse weather conditions may also impact customer traffic at our restaurants, and, in more severe cases, cause temporary restaurant closures, sometimes for prolonged periods. Most of our restaurants have outdoor seating, and the effects of adverse weather may impact the use of these areas and may negatively impact our revenue. If restaurant revenue decreases, our profitability could decline as we spread fixed costs across a lower level of sales. Reductions in staff levels, asset impairment charges and potential restaurant closures could result from prolonged negative restaurant revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. New information or attitudes regarding diet and health could result in changes in regulations and consumer consumption habits, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulations and consumer eating habits may change as a result of new information or attitudes regarding diet and health. Such changes may include responses to scientific studies on the health effects of particular food items or federal, state and local regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of the food and beverages we offer. The success of our restaurant operations is dependent, in part, upon our ability to effectively respond to changes in any consumer attitudes or health regulations and our ability to adapt our menu offerings to trends in food consumption, especially fast-moving trends. If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may choose or be required to modify or delete certain menu items, which may adversely affect the attractiveness of our restaurants to new or returning customers. While we generally find that changes in consumer eating habits occur slowly, providing us with sufficient time to adapt our restaurant concept accordingly, changes in consumer eating habits can occur rapidly, often in response to published research or study information, which puts additional pressure on us to adapt quickly. To the extent we are unwilling or unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings in an efficient manner, it could materially affect consumer demand and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Government regulation and consumer eating habits may impact our business as a result of changes in attitudes regarding diet and health or new information regarding the adverse health effects of consuming certain menu offerings. These changes have resulted in, and may continue to result in, laws and regulations requiring us to disclose the nutritional content of our food offerings, and they have resulted, and may continue to result in, laws and regulations affecting permissible ingredients and menu offerings. A number of counties, cities and states, including California, have enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose to consumers certain nutritional information, or have enacted legislation restricting the use of certain types of ingredients in restaurants, which laws may be different or inconsistent with requirements under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the \"PPACA\"), which establishes a uniform, federal requirement for certain restaurants to post nutritional information on their menus. Specifically, the PPACA requires chain restaurants with 20 or more locations operating under the same name and offering substantially the same menus to publish the total number of calories of standard menu items on menus and menu boards, along with a statement that puts this calorie information in the context of a total daily calorie intake.. We may not be able to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions, comply with further nutrient content disclosure requirements or adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely heavily on certain vendors, suppliers and distributors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to maintain consistent price and quality throughout our restaurants depends in part upon our ability to acquire specified food products and supplies in sufficient quantities from third-party vendors, suppliers and distributors at a reasonable cost. We use a limited number of suppliers and distributors in various geographical areas, particularly with respect to our fresh food products. During fiscal 2016, we also relied on Performance Food Group as one of our primary distributors, which supplied us with approximately 92.5% of our food supplies in the fiscal year ended December 27, 2016. Starting in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 we transitioned from Performance Food Group to four new distributors covering different markets. One of those distributors, Shamrock Foods Company, supplied us with approximately 68.7% of our food supplies in the fiscal year ended December 26, 2017. We do not control the businesses of our vendors, suppliers and distributors, and our efforts to specify and monitor the standards under which they perform may not be successful. Furthermore, certain food items are perishable, and we have limited control over whether these items will be delivered to us in appropriate condition for use in our restaurants. If any of our vendors or other suppliers are unable to fulfill their obligations to our standards, or if we are unable to find replacement providers in the event of a supply or service disruption, we could encounter supply shortages and incur higher costs to secure adequate supplies, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, if our current vendors or other suppliers are unable to support our expansion into new markets, or if we are unable to find vendors to meet our supply specifications or service needs as. 20. we expand, we could likewise encounter supply shortages and incur higher costs to secure adequate supplies, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we use various third-party vendors to provide, support and maintain most of our management information systems. We also outsource certain accounting, payroll and human resource functions to business process service providers. The failure of such vendors to fulfill their obligations could disrupt our operations. Additionally, any changes we may make to the services we obtain from our vendors, or new vendors we employ, may disrupt our operations. These disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to maintain our corporate culture and changes in consumer recognition of our brand as we grow could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We believe that a critical component to our success has been our corporate culture. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team. As we continue to grow, we may find it difficult to maintain the innovation, teamwork, passion and focus on execution that we believe are important aspects of our corporate culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our future results depend on various factors, including local market acceptance of our restaurants and consumer recognition of the quality of our food and operations. Although we have received national and regional recognition for the high-quality of our food and operations, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to receive similar recognition in future periods. Failure to receive continued national and regional recognition may impact consumer recognition of our brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The effect of changes to healthcare laws in the United States may increase the number of employees who choose to participate in our healthcare plans, which may significantly increase our healthcare costs and negatively impact our financial results.. In 2010, the PPACA was signed into law in the United States to require health care coverage for many uninsured individuals and expand coverage to those already insured. The PPACA requires us to offer healthcare benefits to all full-time employees (including full-time hourly employees) that meet certain minimum requirements of coverage and affordability, or face penalties. We began offering such benefits in August 2015, and are incurring additional expenses due to organizing and maintaining the plan which is more expensive on a per person basis and for an increased number of employees who have elected to obtain coverage through a healthcare plan we subsidize in part. If we fail to continue to offer such benefits, or the benefits we elect to offer do not meet the applicable requirements, we may incur penalties. It is also possible that by making changes or failing to make changes in the healthcare plans offered by us we will become less competitive in the market for our labor. The future costs and other effects of these new healthcare requirements cannot be determined with certainty, but they may significantly increase our healthcare coverage costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, modifications to or repeal of all or certain provisions of the PPACA are being contemplated by the current administration. We cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or impact of any changes to the PPACA or other federal and state reform efforts. There is no assurance that federal or state health care reform will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative, judicial or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business.. 21. We depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of one or more key personnel or an inability to attract, hire, integrate and retain highly skilled personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our key executives. We also rely on our leadership team in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying expansion opportunities, arranging necessary financing and general and administrative functions.. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have a serious adverse effect on our business. The replacement of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives.. To continue to execute our growth strategy, we also must identify, hire and retain highly skilled personnel. We might not be successful in maintaining our unique culture and continuing to attract and retain qualified personnel. Failure to identify, hire and retain necessary key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Labor shortages, unionization activities, labor disputes or increased labor costs could negatively impact our growth and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our restaurants. If we face labor shortages or increased labor costs because of increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover rates, increases in the federal, state or local minimum wage or other employee benefits costs (including costs associated with health insurance coverage), our operating expenses could increase and our growth could be negatively impacted. In addition, our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of well-qualified restaurant operators and management personnel, as well as a sufficient number of other qualified employees, including customer service and kitchen staff, to keep pace with our expansion schedule. In addition, restaurants have traditionally experienced relatively high employee turnover rates. Although we have not yet experienced significant problems in recruiting or retaining employees, our ability to recruit and retain such individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in higher employee turnover in existing restaurants, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Although none of our employees are currently covered under collective bargaining agreements, if a significant number of our employees were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a labor dispute involving some or all of our employees may harm our reputation, disrupt our operations and reduce our revenue, and resolution of disputes may increase our costs. If we are unable to continue to recruit and retain sufficiently qualified individuals, our business and our growth could be adversely affected. Competition for these employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs. In addition, increases in the minimum wage would increase our labor costs. Additionally, costs associated with workers' compensation are rising, and these costs may continue to rise in the future. Beginning in fiscal year 2018 we moved to modified self-insurance workers' compensation program. We may be unable to increase our menu prices in order to pass these increased labor costs on to consumers, in which case our margins would be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The minimum wage, particularly in California, continues to increase and is subject to factors outside of our control.. We have a substantial number of hourly employees who are paid wage rates based on the applicable federal or state minimum wage, although our pay scale starts in excess of the minimum wage, and increases in the minimum wage may increase our labor costs. On January 1, 2018, the State of California's (where most of our restaurants are located) minimum wage was raised to $11.00 per hour, after being raised to $10.50 per hour on January 1, 2017. Legislation is currently in place that increases the minimum wage in the State of California gradually over the next. 22. five years to $15.00 by January 1, 2022. Moreover, municipalities may set minimum wages above the applicable state standards. The federal minimum wage has been $7.25 per hour since July 24, 2009. Either federally-mandated or state-mandated minimum wages may be raised in the future. We may be unable to increase our menu prices in order to pass future increased labor costs on to our customers, in which case our margins would be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. And if menu prices are increased by us to cover increased labor costs, the higher prices could adversely affect sales and thereby reduce our margins.. Changes in employment laws may adversely affect our business.. Various federal and state labor laws govern the relationship with our employees and impact operating costs. These laws include employee classification as exempt or non-exempt for overtime and other purposes, minimum wage requirements, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, immigration status and other wage and benefit requirements. Significant additional government-imposed increases in the following areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations:. •  minimum wages;. •  mandatory health benefits;. •  vacation accruals;. •  paid leaves of absence, including paid sick leave; and. •  tax reporting.. In addition, various states in which we operate are considering or have already adopted new immigration laws or enforcement programs, and the U.S. Congress and Department of Homeland Security from time to time consider and may implement changes to federal immigration laws, regulations or enforcement programs as well. Some of these changes may increase our obligations for compliance and oversight, which could subject us to additional costs and make our hiring process more cumbersome, or reduce the availability of potential employees. Although we require all workers to provide us with government-specified documentation evidencing their employment eligibility, some of our employees may, without our knowledge, be unauthorized workers. We currently participate in the \"E-Verify\" program, an Internet-based, free program run by the United States government to verify employment eligibility, in states in which participation is required. However, use of the \"E-Verify\" program does not guarantee that we will properly identify all applicants who are ineligible for employment. Unauthorized workers are subject to deportation and may subject us to fines or penalties, and if any of our workers are found to be unauthorized we could experience adverse publicity that negatively impacts our brand and may make it more difficult to hire and keep qualified employees. Termination of a significant number of employees who were unauthorized employees may disrupt our operations, cause temporary increases in our labor costs as we train new employees and result in additional adverse publicity. We could also become subject to fines, penalties and other costs related to claims that we did not fully comply with all recordkeeping obligations of federal and state immigration compliance laws. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Furthermore, in recent years immigration laws have been a topic of considerable political focus. The Trump administration has indicated that it intends to re-examine immigration laws and regulations. Further changes in immigration or work authorization laws could increase our compliance and oversight obligations, which could subject us to additional costs and potential liability and make our hiring process more burdensome, and could potentially reduce the availability of prospective employees.. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available.. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and might require additional funds to respond to business challenges or opportunities, including the need to open additional restaurants, develop new products and menu items or enhance our products and menu items, and enhance our operating infrastructure. Accordingly, we might need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to. 23. those of holders of our Class A common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which might make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Moreover, if we issue new debt securities, the debt holders would have rights senior to Class A common stockholders to make claims on our assets. In addition, we might not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited.. We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing space subject to long-term non-cancelable leases.. We do not own any real property. Payments under our operating leases account for a significant portion of our operating expenses and we expect the new restaurants we open in the future will also be leased. We are obligated under non-cancelable leases for our restaurants and our corporate headquarters. Our restaurant leases generally have a term of 10 years with two five-year renewal options. Our restaurant leases generally require us to pay a proportionate share of real estate taxes, insurance, common area maintenance charges and other operating costs. Some restaurant leases provide for contingent rental payments based on sales thresholds, although we generally do not expect to pay significant contingent rent on these properties based on the thresholds in those leases. Additional sites that we lease are likely to be subject to similar long-term non-cancelable leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of our leases expires, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to pay increased occupancy costs or to close restaurants in desirable locations. These potential increased occupancy costs and closed restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends in part on our ability to further build brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos and the unique ambience of our restaurants. While it is our policy to protect and defend vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we cannot predict whether steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of these rights or the use by others of restaurant features based upon, or otherwise similar to, our restaurant concept. It may be difficult for us to prevent others from copying elements of our concept and any litigation to enforce our rights will likely be costly and may not be successful. Although we believe that we have sufficient rights to all of our trademarks and service marks, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to market our restaurants and promote our brand. Any such litigation may be costly and could divert resources from our business. Moreover, if we are unable to successfully defend against such claims, we may be prevented from using our trademarks or service marks in the future and may be liable for damages, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we license certain of our proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos, to third parties. For example, we grant our franchisees and licensees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable restaurant. If a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the restaurant operations associated with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could potentially be harmed. Negative publicity relating to the franchisee or licensee could also be incorrectly associated with us, which could harm our business. Failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to enter into new franchise agreements.. 24. We may incur costs resulting from breaches of security of confidential consumer information related to our electronic processing of credit and debit card transactions.. The majority of our restaurant sales are by credit or debit cards. Other restaurants and retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card information has been stolen and some have incurred significant expenses as a result of the security breaches. We may in the future become subject to claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit or debit card information, and we may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings relating to these types of incidents. In addition, most states have enacted legislation requiring notification of security breaches involving personal information, including credit and debit card information. Any such claim or proceeding could cause us to incur significant unplanned expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We rely heavily on information technology, and any material failure, weakness, interruption or breach of security could prevent us from effectively operating our business.. We rely heavily on information systems, including point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, for management of our supply chain, payment of obligations, collection of cash, credit and debit card transactions and other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently and effectively manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and systems against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, viruses and other disruptive problems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, maintenance problems, upgrading or transitioning to new platforms, or a breach in security of these systems could result in delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations. Remediation of such problems could result in significant, unplanned capital investments.. Our current insurance may not provide adequate levels of coverage against claims.. Our current insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. Additionally, in the future, our insurance premiums may increase, and we may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Any substantial inadequacy of, or inability to obtain insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a public company, we have enhanced our existing directors' and officers' liability insurance. Although we have obtained such coverage, we may not be able to obtain such coverage at all or at a reasonable cost in the future. Failure to obtain and maintain adequate directors' and officers' liability insurance would likely adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified officers and directors.. Failure to obtain and maintain required licenses and permits or to comply with food control regulations could lead to the loss of our food service licenses and, thereby, harm our business.. The restaurant industry is subject to various federal, state and local government regulations, including those relating to the sale of food. Such regulations are subject to change from time to time. The failure to obtain and maintain these licenses, permits and approvals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked, suspended or denied renewal for cause at any time if governmental authorities determine that our conduct violates applicable regulations. Difficulties or failure to maintain or obtain the required licenses and approvals could adversely affect our existing restaurants and delay or result in our decision to cancel the opening of new restaurants, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. 25. Changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect the reporting of our results of operations.. Changes to existing accounting rules or regulations may impact the reporting of our future results of operations or cause the perception that we are more highly leveraged. Other new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. For instance, accounting regulatory authorities have issued new regulations which will require lessees to capitalize operating leases in their financial statements effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. This change will require us to record significant lease obligations on our balance sheet and make other changes to our financial statements. This and other future changes to accounting rules or regulations could have a material adverse effect on the reporting of our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes to estimates related to our property, fixtures and equipment or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain restaurant locations may cause us to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. In accordance with accounting guidance as it relates to the impairment of long-lived assets, we make certain estimates and projections with regard to individual restaurant operations, as well as our overall performance, in connection with our impairment analyses for long-lived assets. When impairment triggers are deemed to exist for any location, the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are compared to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, an impairment charge equal to the difference between the carrying value and the fair value is recorded. The projections of future cash flows used in these analyses require the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from our estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If future impairment charges are significant, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock. KarpReilly and its affiliates have significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control.. As of December 26, 2017, investment funds affiliated with KarpReilly beneficially owned 1.1% of our outstanding Class A common stock and 45.2% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which aggregates to 10.7% of our voting power. Although their voting power is below 50%, KarpReilly may be able to influence the election of members of our board of directors and our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities, the repurchase or redemption of common stock and the payment of dividends, and two of our directors, Christopher K. Reilly and Allan W. Karp, who are affiliated with KarpReilly, will continue to serve on our board of directors.. Additionally, KarpReilly is in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. KarpReilly may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.. We are required to pay certain of the Continuing LLC Owners for certain tax benefits we may claim, and we expect that the payments we will be required to make will be substantial.. Our acquisitions of interests in The Habit Restaurants, LLC (including transactions treated as \"sales or exchanges\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes) from the holders of economic, non-voting interests in The Habit Restaurants, LLC (the \"Continuing LLC Owners\") for shares of our Class A common stock or cash are expected to provide favorable tax attributes for us. As a result of our acquisitions of interests in The Habit Restaurants, LLC from the Continuing LLC Owners, we anticipate that the resulting tax basis adjustments and other related tax attributes may reduce the amount of tax we would otherwise be required to pay in the future.. 26. In connection with the IPO, we entered into a tax receivable agreement (the \"TRA\"). Under the TRA, we generally are required to pay to the Continuing LLC Owners 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state or local tax that we or our subsidiaries actually realize directly or indirectly (or are deemed to realize in certain circumstances) as a result of (i) certain tax attributes that were created as a result of the IPO and any sales or exchanges (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes) to or with us of their interests in The Habit Restaurants, LLC for shares of our Class A common stock or cash, including any basis adjustment relating to the assets of The Habit Restaurants, LLC and (ii) tax benefits attributable to payments made under the TRA (including imputed interest). The Habit Restaurants, Inc. and its subsidiaries generally will retain 15% of the applicable tax savings.. The payment obligations under the TRA are obligations of The Habit Restaurants, Inc., not The Habit Restaurants, LLC, and we expect that the payments we will be required to make under the TRA will be substantial. Assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize all tax benefits that are subject to the TRA, we expect that the tax savings associated with sales or exchanges of interests in The Habit Restaurants, LLC as a result of the IPO, the April 2015 Offering, and the exchanges of economic, non-voting interests in The Habit Restaurants, LLC (the \"LLC Units\") for shares of Class A common stock by the Continuing LLC Owners that have occurred through the end of fiscal 2017, would aggregate to approximately $96.2 million. Under such scenario we would be required to pay the other parties to the TRA approximately 85% of such amount, or $81.8 million (and not taking into account any additional liability expected to arise under the TRA as a result of other exchanges). The decrease in the TRA liability during the fiscal year ended December 26, 2017 is primarily due to a decrease in the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% effective in 2018 under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The actual amounts may materially differ from these hypothetical amounts.. The increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under these agreements, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges by the holders of LLC Units, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange (or the 15 trading days immediately prior to the delivery date of a notice of exchange, where we elect in the future to pay cash consideration for units of The Habit Restaurants, LLC), whether such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future, the prevailing applicable tax rates and the portion of our payments under the TRA constituting imputed interest. Payments under the TRA are expected to give rise to certain additional tax benefits attributable to either further increases in basis or in the form of deductions for imputed interest, depending on the circumstances. Any such benefits are covered by the TRA and will increase the amounts due thereunder. In addition, the TRA provides for interest, at a rate equal to one year LIBOR, accrued from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return to the date of payment specified by the TRA. To the extent that we are unable to timely make payments under the TRA for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest at a rate equal to one year LIBOR plus 200 basis points until paid (although a rate equal to one year LIBOR will apply if the inability to make payments under the TRA is due to limitations imposed on us or any of our subsidiaries by a debt agreement in effect on the date of the IPO).. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the TRA in a manner that does not adversely affect our working capital and growth requirements.. Our ability to pay taxes and expenses, including payments under the TRA, may be limited by our structure.. We are a holding company with no direct operations (other than in our capacity as Managing Member of The Habit Restaurants, LLC) that holds as our principal assets an equity interest in The Habit Restaurants, LLC and shares of subsidiaries each of which holds as its principal asset an equity interest in The Habit Restaurants, LLC. We rely on The Habit Restaurants, LLC to provide us with funds necessary to meet any financial obligations. As such, we have no independent means of generating revenue. The Habit Restaurants, LLC is treated by its members as a partnership for federal and applicable state income tax purposes and, as such, generally is not expected to be subject to income tax (except that it may be required to withhold and remit taxes as a withholding agent). Instead, taxable income is allocated to holders of its LLC Units, including us and our subsidiaries. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our allocable share of any net taxable income of The Habit Restaurants, LLC and we also incur expenses related to our operations. Pursuant to the Limited Liability Company Agreement of The Habit Restaurants, LLC (the \"LLC Agreement\") The Habit Restaurants, LLC is obligated to make tax distributions to holders of LLC Units, including us and our subsidiaries, subject to the conditions described below. In addition to tax expenses, we also incur. 27. expenses related to our operations, including payments under the TRA, which we expect will be significant. We intend to cause The Habit Restaurants, LLC to make distributions or, in the case of certain expenses, payments in an amount sufficient to allow us to pay our taxes and operating expenses, including distributions to fund any ordinary course payments due under the TRA. However, The Habit Restaurants, LLC's ability to make such distributions and payments in the future may be subject to various limitations and restrictions, including the operating results of our subsidiaries, our cash requirements and financial condition, the applicable provisions of Delaware law that may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to its members, compliance by The Habit Restaurants, LLC and its subsidiaries with restrictions, covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness, and other agreements entered into by The Habit Restaurants, LLC or its subsidiaries with third parties. If we do not have sufficient funds to pay tax or other liabilities or to fund our operations (e.g., as a result of The Habit Restaurants, LLC's inability to make distributions due to various limitations and restrictions or as a result of the acceleration of our obligations under the TRA), we may have to borrow funds, and thus our liquidity and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the TRA for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest at a rate equal to one year LIBOR plus 200 basis points until paid (although a rate equal to one year LIBOR will apply if the inability to make payments under the TRA is due to limitations imposed on us or any of our subsidiaries by a debt agreement in effect on the date of the IPO).. In certain cases, payments under the TRA to the Continuing LLC Owners may be accelerated or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the TRA.. The TRA provides that (i) in the event that we materially breach the TRA, (ii) if, at any time, we elect an early termination of the TRA, or (iii) upon certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control, our (or our successor's) obligations under the TRA (with respect to all LLC Units, whether or not LLC Units have been exchanged or acquired before or after such transaction) would accelerate and become payable in a lump sum amount equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits calculated based on certain assumptions, including that we would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the tax deductions, tax basis and other tax attributes subject to the TRA.. As a result of the foregoing, (i) we could be required to make payments under the TRA that are greater than or less than the specified percentage of the actual tax savings we or our subsidiaries realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the agreements and (ii) we may be required to make an immediate lump sum payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax savings, which payment may be made years in advance of the actual realization of such future benefits, if any such benefits are ever realized. In these situations, our obligations under the TRA could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the TRA in a manner that does not adversely affect our working capital and growth requirements.. In certain circumstances, The Habit Restaurants, LLC will be required to make distributions to us and the Continuing LLC Owners, and the distributions that The Habit Restaurants, LLC will be required to make may be substantial.. The Habit Restaurants, LLC is treated by its members as a partnership for federal and applicable state income tax purposes and, as such, generally is not expected to be subject to income tax, except that it may be required to withhold and remit taxes as a withholding agent. Instead, taxable income is allocated to holders of its LLC Units, including us. Pursuant to the LLC Agreement, The Habit Restaurants, LLC is obligated to make tax distributions to holders of LLC Units, including us and our subsidiaries, except that The Habit Restaurants, LLC's ability to make such distributions may be subject to various limitations and restrictions, including the operating results of The Habit Restaurants, LLC, our cash requirements and financial condition, the applicable provisions of Delaware law that may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to its members, compliance by The Habit Restaurants, LLC and its subsidiaries with restrictions, covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness, and other agreements entered into by The Habit Restaurants, LLC or its subsidiaries with third parties. We are a holding company with no direct operations (other than in our capacity as Managing Member of The Habit Restaurants, LLC) and will rely on The Habit Restaurants, LLC to provide us with funds necessary to meet any financial obligations.. Funds used by The Habit Restaurants, LLC to satisfy its tax distribution obligations will not be available for reinvestment in our business. Moreover, the tax distributions that The Habit Restaurants, LLC will be required to. 28. make may be substantial, and will likely exceed (as a percentage of The Habit Restaurants, LLC's income) the overall effective tax rate applicable to a similarly situated corporate taxpayer.. As a result of potential differences in the amount of net taxable income allocable to us and to the Continuing LLC Owners, as well as the use of an assumed tax rate in calculating The Habit Restaurants, LLC's distribution obligations, we may receive distributions significantly in excess of our tax liabilities and obligations to make payments under the TRA. To the extent, as currently expected, we do not distribute such cash balances as dividends on our Class A common stock and instead, for example, hold such cash balances or lend them to The Habit Restaurants, LLC, the Continuing LLC Owners would benefit from any value attributable to such accumulated cash balances as a result of their ownership of Class A common stock following an exchange of their LLC Units.. We will not be reimbursed for any payments made to the Continuing LLC Owners under the TRA in the event that any tax benefits are disallowed.. If the IRS or a state or local taxing authority challenges the tax basis adjustments and/or deductions that give rise to payments under the TRA and the tax basis adjustments and/or deductions are subsequently disallowed, the recipients of payments under the agreement will not reimburse us for any payments we previously made to them. Any such disallowance would be taken into account in determining future payments under the TRA and would, therefore, reduce the amount of any such future payments. Nevertheless, if the claimed tax benefits from the tax basis adjustments and/or deductions are disallowed, our payments under the TRA could exceed our actual tax savings, and we may not be able to recoup payments under the TRA that were calculated on the assumption that the disallowed tax savings were available.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law new legislation that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The newly enacted federal income tax law, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income in respect of net operating losses generated during or after 2018 and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities were revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the impact was recognized in our tax expense in 2017, the year of enactment. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse. We urge you to consult with your legal and tax advisors with respect to this legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in or holding our common stock.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could result in The Habit Restaurants, LLC being required to make excess cash distributions to us, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and other factors. The Habit Restaurants, LLC may make cash distributions to us in excess of our cash needs, and the impact of such excess distributions could be adverse.   The Habit Restaurants, LLC operates as a limited liability company that is treated as a partnership for federal and state income tax purposes and is not itself subject to federal and state income tax (except that it may be required to pay an \"imputed underpayment\" and related interest and penalties in the event of an audit by the Internal Revenue Service, which would adversely affect us). Instead, we, and each other member of The Habit Restaurants, LLC, are required to recognize its allocable share of The Habit Restaurants, LLC's income, gain, loss, deduction and credit (and each item thereof), as determined for tax purposes, on its U.S. federal income tax return for each taxable year of The Habit Restaurants, LLC ending with or within its taxable year, regardless of whether any distributions of cash or. 29. other property are made from The Habit Restaurants, LLC to us.  As a result, the Limited Liability Company Agreement of The Habit Restaurants, LLC contains a \"tax distribution\" provision that generally obligates The Habit Restaurants, LLC to make cash distributions to its members, including us, in an amount determined by multiplying the highest marginal rate applicable to any member of The Habit Restaurants, LLC by the amount of net income and/or gain allocable to each member of The Habit Restaurants, LLC.  The members of The Habit Restaurants, LLC include individuals.  In light of the fact that (i) the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has created a significant difference between the income tax rate that generally applies to entities that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal tax purposes, such as us, and the highest marginal tax rate that applies to individuals and (ii) the tax distributions made by The Habit Restaurants, LLC will be based on the higher rate generally applicable to individuals, we expect to receive tax distributions from The Habit Restaurants, LLC in excess of the amount we require to pay our U.S. federal, state and local income taxes.  We will need to determine how to deploy such excess cash. In addition, it is possible that the requirement to make excess tax distributions to us will result in The Habit Restaurants, LLC having insufficient cash to meet its cash needs or foregoing otherwise attractive investment opportunities, the consequences of which may be adverse to The Habit Restaurants, LLC, which in turn will result in adverse consequences to us.. Unanticipated changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States, and our domestic tax liabilities will be subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including:. •  changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;. •  expected timing and amount of the release of any tax valuation allowances;. •  tax effects of stock-based compensation;. •  costs related to intercompany restructurings;. •  changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof; or. •  lower than anticipated future earnings in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated future earnings in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory tax rates.. In addition, we may be subject to audits of our income, sales and other transaction taxes by U.S. federal and state authorities. Outcomes from these audits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our Class A common stock price has been and will likely continue to be extremely volatile.. The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile for the foreseeable future, and investors in our Class A common stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our results of operations or prospects, and could lose part or all of their investment. The high and low share prices for fiscal year 2017 were $19.75 and $8.85, respectively. The price of our Class A common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described elsewhere in this annual report and others such as:. •  variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors or restaurant companies in general;. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results;. •  publication of research reports by securities analysts about us or our competitors or our industry;. •  the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. •  our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts' projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market;. •  additions and departures of key personnel;. 30. •  strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy;. •  the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry;. •  speculation in the press or investment community;. •  changes in accounting principles;. •  terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest;. •  natural disasters and other calamities; and. •  changes in general market and economic conditions.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to seasonality and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, resulting in a decline in our stock price.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including:. •  the timing of new restaurant openings and related expense;. •  restaurant operating costs for our newly-opened restaurants;. •  labor availability and costs for hourly and management personnel;. •  profitability of our restaurants, especially in new markets;. •  changes in interest rates;. •  increases and decreases in AUVs and comparable restaurant sales growth;. •  impairment of long-lived assets and any loss on restaurant closures;. •  macroeconomic conditions, both nationally and locally;. •  negative publicity relating to the consumption of seafood or other products we serve;. •  changes in consumer preferences and competitive conditions;. •  expansion to new markets;. •  increases in infrastructure costs; and. •  fluctuations in commodity prices.. Seasonal factors and the timing of holidays cause our revenue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our revenue per restaurant is typically slightly lower in the fourth quarter due to holiday closures. Adverse weather conditions may also affect customer traffic. In addition, we have outdoor seating at most of our restaurants, and the effects of adverse weather may impact the use of these areas and may negatively impact our revenue.. Regulatory compliance may divert our management's attention from day-to-day management of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our management team may not successfully or efficiently manage being a public company that is subject to significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under the federal securities laws and the regulations imposed by Nasdaq. In particular, these obligations require substantial attention from our senior management and could divert their attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations.. 31. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote.. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of Class A common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options, or shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock. Issuances of Class A common stock or voting preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, would likely result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock.. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may deter takeover efforts that could be beneficial to stockholder value.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include a classified board of directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval that could be used to dilute a potential hostile acquirer. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding Class A common stock other than affiliates of KarpReilly. As a result, stockholders may lose their ability to sell their stock for a price in excess of the prevailing market price due to these protective measures, and efforts by stockholders to change the direction or management of the company may be unsuccessful.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock depends, to some extent, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our Class A common stock or change their opinion of our Class A common stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your Class A common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. We may retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any decision to declare and pay dividends as a public company in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including our credit facility. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our Class A common stock unless you sell our Class A common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. The JOBS Act permits \"emerging growth companies\" like us to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. We qualify as an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act, as modified by the JOBS Act. As such, we are eligible for and take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, including (i) the exemption from the auditor attestation requirements with respect to internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) the exemptions from say-on-pay, say-on-frequency and say-on-golden parachute voting requirements and (iii) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the date on which we are deemed to be a \"large accelerated filer\" (as that term defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act), (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in. 32. which we had total annual gross revenue of $1 billion or more during such fiscal year (as indexed for inflation), (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in the prior three-year period or (iv) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the completion of our initial public offering which is December 31, 2019.. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the exemption from complying with new or revised accounting standards provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act as long as we are an emerging growth company. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. We cannot predict if investors have found or will find our Class A common stock less attractive because we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. As a publicly traded company, we are required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. Pursuant to the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC or the date we are no longer an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years following the IPO.. To comply with these requirements, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring additional accounting or internal audit staff. In addition, we may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the applicable deadline imposed upon us for compliance with the requirements of Section 404.. If we identify weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if when our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and are unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our Class A common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by Nasdaq (the exchange on which our securities are listed), the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources."
