[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, in evaluating our business, future prospects and an investment in our common stock. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We may not be able to generate operating profits.. Since our inception, we have not generated operating profits, and we may be unable to generate operating profits in the future if we are unable to execute on our business plan. Our operating expenses (which include research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses) were approximately $34.1 million, $28.5 million and $29.9 million (excluding approximately $4.4 million of a goodwill impairment charge) for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our research and development expenses are due primarily to continued investment in our binder jetting technologies, including 3D printing machine development (including our fine powder direct printing capabilities and larger format direct and indirect 3D printing machines) and materials development (including our proprietary binders). Our selling, general and administrative expenses are due primarily to personnel costs associated with managing a public company and related professional service fees (including legal, audit and other consulting expenses). We believe that our operating expenses may increase in future periods as we pursue our growth strategies. Increases in our research and development expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses will directly affect our future results of operations and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate.. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and are likely to continue to vary due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. Both our business and the AM industry are changing and evolving rapidly, and our historical operating results may not be useful in predicting our future operating results.. Our machine orders are often subject to the capital expenditure cycles of our customers. Thus, revenues and operating results for any future period are not predictable with any significant degree of certainty. Comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance.. Fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition may occur due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this \"Risk Factors\" section:. •  Our ability to compete with competitors (some of which may also serve as current or future customers of our products) that have significantly more resources than we have, have larger and more experienced sales and service teams and have more experience bringing new products to the market;      •  The mix of machines and products that we sell during any period;      •  Our lengthy sales cycle for 3D printing machines;      •  Entry of new competitors into our markets;     •  Changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors, including our response to price competition;      •  Delays between our expenditures to develop and market new or enhanced machines and products or to develop, acquire or license new technologies and processes and the generation of sales related thereto;      •  Changes in the amount we spend to promote our products and services;      •  The geographic distribution of our sales;      •  Changes in the cost of satisfying our warranty obligations and servicing our installed base of products;      •  Our level of research and development activities and their associated costs and rates of success;      •  Changes in the size and complexity of our organization;     •  Interruptions to or other problems with our information technology systems, manufacturing processes or other operations;      •  Changes in regulatory requirements governing the handling and use of certain chemicals or powders printed or used in our equipment;      •  General economic and industry conditions that affect end-user demand and end-user levels of product design and manufacturing; or. 11. •  Changes in accounting rules and tax laws.. Due to the foregoing factors, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons of our operating results as an indicator of future performance.. Customer demands for certain qualities and capabilities in our machines is constantly evolving.  We may not be able to respond to customer demand as quickly as a larger competitor may be able to respond.. Generally, our business is focused on the sale of 3D printing machines for, and products manufactured using, AM. Most recently, our company has focused on developing our fine powder direct printing capabilities and larger format direct and indirect 3D printing machines.. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in a market subject to innovation and rapidly developing and changing technology. A variety of technologies have the capacity to compete against one another in the AM market, which is, in part, driven by technological advances and end-user requirements and preferences, as well as the emergence of new standards and practices. Our ability to compete in the industrial AM market depends, in large part, on our success in enhancing and developing new 3D printing machines, in enhancing our current 3D printing machines, in enhancing and adding to our technology, and in developing and qualifying materials with which we can print. We believe that to remain competitive we must continuously enhance and expand the functionality and features of our products and technologies. However, we may not be able to:. •  Develop machines that are capable of directly printing fine powders;      •  Enhance our existing products and technologies;      •  Continue to leverage advances in binder printing and other industrial printhead technology;      •  Develop new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective end-users, particularly with respect to the physical properties of fine powders, binder jetting and other materials;      •  Respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis;      •  Develop products that are cost-effective or that otherwise gain market acceptance;      •  Distinguish ourselves from our competitors in our industry; and      •  Adequately protect our intellectual property as we develop new products and technologies.. We face significant competition in many aspects of our business, which could cause our revenues and gross profit to decline. Competition could also cause us to reduce sales prices or to incur additional marketing or production costs, which could result in decreased revenue, increased costs and reduced margins.. We compete for customers with a wide variety of producers of equipment for models, prototypes, other 3D objects and end-use parts as well as producers of print materials and services for this equipment. Some of our existing and potential competitors are researching, designing, developing and marketing other types of competitive equipment, print materials and services. Many of these competitors have financial, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources that are substantially greater than ours.. We also expect that future competition may arise from the development of allied or related techniques for equipment and print materials that are not encompassed by our patents, from the issuance of patents to other companies that may inhibit our ability to develop certain products, from our entry into new geographic markets and industries and from improvements to existing print materials and equipment technologies. In addition, a number of companies that have substantial resources have announced that they intend to begin producing 3D printing machines, which will further enhance the competition we face.. We intend to continue to follow a strategy of continuing product development to enhance our position to the extent practicable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current position in the field or continue to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition. If we do not keep pace with technological change and introduce new products, our revenues and demand for our products may decrease.. We may not be able to retain or hire the number of skilled employees that we need to achieve our business plan.. For our business to grow in accordance with our business plan, we will need to recruit, hire, integrate and retain additional employees with the technical competence and engineering skills to operate our machines, improve our technology and processes and expand our technological capability to print using an increasing variety of materials. People with these skills are in short supply and may not be available in sufficient numbers to allow us to meet the goals of our business plan. In addition, new employees often require significant training and, in many cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. As a result, we may incur significant costs to attract and retain employees, including significant expenditures related to salaries and benefits, and we may lose new employees to our competitors or other companies before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting and training them. Moreover, new employees may not be or become as productive as we expect, as we may face challenges in adequately or. 12. appropriately integrating them into our workforce and culture. If we cannot obtain the services of a sufficient number of technically skilled employees, we may not be able to achieve our planned rate of growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Loss of key management or sales or customer service personnel could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the skills, experience and efforts of our management and other key personnel. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of management individuals if we are to realize our goal of continued expansion and growth. While we have not previously experienced significant problems attracting and retaining members of our management team and other key personnel, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to retain these individuals and the loss of any or all of these individuals could materially and adversely affect our business.. We may incur future impairment charges to our long-lived assets held and used.. As a result of continued operating losses and cash flow deficiencies, we have completed certain tests for the recoverability of long-lived assets held and used at the asset group level. Assessing the recoverability of long-lived assets held and used requires significant judgments and estimates by management. We will be required to conduct additional testing for the recoverability of long-lived assets held and used to the extent that a triggering event requiring such testing is identified in a future period. A significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset, adverse change in the use or condition of a long-lived asset, adverse change in the business climate or legal or regulatory factors impacting a long-lived asset and continued operating losses and cash flow deficiencies associated with a long-lived asset, among other indicators, could cause a future assessment to be performed which may result in an impairment of long-lived assets held and used. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recorded.. We may conclude that there is substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern.. As a result of our continued operating losses, cash flow deficiencies and liquidity, we may conclude that there is substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. In connection with this conclusion, if our independent registered public accounting firm issues a \"going concern\" opinion, it could impair our ability to finance our operations through the sale of equity, incurring debt, or other financing alternatives. If we fail to raise sufficient additional capital, we will not be able to completely execute our business plan. As a result our business would be jeopardized and we may not be able to continue.. Some of our arrangements for 3D printing machines contain customer-specific provisions that may impact the period in which we recognize the related revenues under U.S. GAAP.. Some customers that purchase 3D printing machines from us may require specific, customized factors relating to their intended use of the machine or the installation of the machine in the customer's facilities. These specific, customized factors are often required by the customer to be included in our commercial agreements relating to the purchase. As a result, our responsiveness to our customers' specific requirements has the potential to impact the period in which we recognize the revenue relating to that 3D printing machine sale.. Our business is subject to risks associated with having significant operations in Germany and selling machines and other products in other non-United States locations.. We have significant manufacturing and development operations in Germany. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transactions outside of the United States (approximately 56.7%, 54.0% and 50.9% for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively).. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks associated with the political, regulatory and economic conditions of Germany and other countries in which we sell or service machines, such as:. •  Challenges in providing solutions across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures;     •  Civil unrest, acts of terrorism and similar events;      •  Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;      •  Potentially longer sales and payment cycles;      •  Potentially greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;      •  Potentially adverse tax consequences;      •  Reduced protection of intellectual property rights in certain countries;      •  Different, complex and changing laws governing intellectual property rights; sometimes affording reduced protection of intellectual property rights in certain countries;     •  Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;      •  Laws and business practices favoring local competition;      •  Costs and difficulties of customizing products for foreign countries;. 13. •  Compliance with a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations;      •  Restrictions imposed by local labor practices and laws on our business and operations;     •  Rapid changes in government, economic and political policies and conditions; political or civil unrest or instability, terrorism or epidemics and other similar outbreaks or events;     •  Operating in countries with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices;      •  Seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world, particularly during the summer months in Europe;     •  Costs and difficulties of customizing products for foreign countries;     •  Transportation delays;     •  Tariffs, trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets;      •  Becoming subject to the laws, regulations and court systems of many jurisdictions; and      •  Risks of violations of Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar anti-bribery laws.. In addition our operating results may be affected by volatility in currency exchange rates and our ability to effectively manage our currency transaction and translation risks because we generally conduct our business, earn revenue and incur costs in the local currency of the countries in which we operate. For example, the financial condition and results of operations of Germany operations are reported in euros and then translated to United States dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. We do not manage our foreign currency exposure in a manner that would eliminate the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, which means that changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the United States dollar will affect the recorded levels of our foreign assets and liabilities, as well as our revenues, cost of sales, and operating margins, and could result in exchange losses in any given reporting period. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we can give no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. One of our principal stockholders is able to exert substantial influence in determining the outcome of matters which require the approval of our stockholders.. Our Executive Chairman, S. Kent Rockwell, beneficially owns approximately 28.5% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a holder of 28.5% of our shares of common stock, Mr. Rockwell may have effective control over the election of our Board of Directors and the direction of our affairs. As a result, he could exert considerable influence over the outcome of any corporate matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any transaction that might cause a change in control, such as a merger or acquisition. Any stockholders in favor of a matter that is opposed by Mr. Rockwell would have to obtain a significant number of votes to overrule the votes of Mr. Rockwell.. We may need to raise additional capital from time to time if we are going to meet our growth strategy and may be unable to do so on attractive terms.. Expanding our business to meet the growth strategy may require additional investments of capital from time to time, and our existing sources of cash and any funds generated from operations may not provide us with sufficient capital. For various reasons, including any current non-compliance with existing or future lending arrangements, additional financing may not be available when needed, or may not be available on terms favorable to us. If we fail to obtain adequate capital on a timely basis or if capital cannot be obtained at reasonable costs, we may not be able to achieve our planned rate of growth, which will adversely affect our results of operations. Additional equity financing may result in ownership and economic dilution to our existing stockholders and/or require us to grant certain rights and preferences to new investors. Also, although S. Kent Rockwell, our Executive Chairman and our controlling stockholder, has previously provided capital to us through a related entity, he has no obligation to do so and our stockholders should have no expectation that he will do so in the future.. We have entered into an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement (\"ATM\") with FBR Capital Markets & Co. (\"FBR\") and MLV & Co. LLC (\"MLV\") pursuant to which FBR and MLV have agreed to act as distribution agents in the sale of up to $50.0 million in the aggregate of our common stock in \"at the market offerings\" as defined in Rule 415 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"). Our ability to raise capital through the use of our ATM may be restricted for various reasons, including our adherence with SEC regulations prohibiting the sale of our common stock for certain periods of time or other adverse market conditions.. We are currently dependent on a single supplier of certain printhead components.. We currently rely on a single source to supply certain printhead components used by our 3D printing machines. While we believe that there are other suppliers of printhead components upon which we could rely, we could experience delays and interruptions if our supply is interrupted that might temporarily impact the financial performance of our business.. 14. We may not be able to consummate and/or effectively integrate strategic transactions.. We may from time to time engage in strategic transactions with third parties if we determine that they will likely provide future financial and operational benefits. Successful completion of any strategic transaction depends on a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals. In addition, our ability to effectively integrate an investment into our existing business and culture may not be successful, which could jeopardize future operational performance for the combined businesses.. We explore from time to time various strategic investments and/or alliances. With respect to strategic investments and/or alliances that we may pursue, there is no guarantee that we will complete such transactions on favorable terms or at all. The exploration, negotiation, and consummation of strategic investments and/or alliances may involve significant expenditures by us, which may adversely affect our results of operations at the time such expenses are incurred. We may not be able to successfully negotiate and complete a specific investment or alliance on favorable terms. If we do complete transactions, they may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or may not be accretive to us for a period of time which may be significant following the completion of such transaction.. We may be required to pay cash, incur debt and/or issue equity securities to pay for any such transaction, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our common stock. Our use of cash to pay for transactions would limit other potential uses of our cash. The issuance or sale of equity or convertible debt securities to finance any such transactions would result in dilution to our stockholders. If we incur debt, it could result in increased fixed obligations and could also impose covenants or other restrictions that could impede our ability to manage our operations.. We rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business and customer and supplier relationships, and a disruption or failure of these systems could adversely affect our results of operations.. We rely on our IT systems to manage numerous aspects of our business and provide analytical information to management. We may incur significant costs in order to implement the security measures that we feel are necessary to protect our IT systems. However, our IT systems may remain vulnerable to damage despite our implementation of security measures that we deem to be appropriate. Our IT systems allow us to efficiently purchase products from our suppliers, provide procurement and logistic services, ship products to our customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations and provide service to our customers. Our IT systems are an essential component of our business and growth strategies, and a disruption to or failure of our IT systems, including our computer systems, could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently. Although we take steps to secure our IT systems, including our computer systems, intranet and internet sites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, the security measures we have implemented may not be effective and our systems may be vulnerable to, among other things, damage and interruption from power loss, including as a result of natural disasters, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunication services, operator negligence, loss of data, security breaches and computer viruses. If our systems for protecting against cyber security risks prove not to be sufficient, we could be adversely affected by loss or damage of intellectual property, proprietary information, or client data, interruption of business operations, or additional costs to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cyber security attacks. Any such disruption or loss of business information could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brand, results of operations and financial condition.. We could be subject to personal injury, property damage, product liability, warranty and other claims involving allegedly defective products that we supply.. The products we supply are sometimes used in potentially hazardous applications, such as the assembled parts of an aircraft or automobile, that could result in death, personal injury, property damage, loss of production, punitive damages and consequential damages. While we have not experienced any such claims to date, actual or claimed defects in the products we supply could result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potentially large claims.. We attempt to include provisions in our agreements with customers that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising from defects or errors in our products. However, it is possible that these limitations may not be effective as a result of unfavorable judicial decisions or laws enacted in the future. Any such lawsuit, regardless of merit, could result in material expense, diversion of management time and efforts and damage to our reputation, and could cause us to fail to retain or attract customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Defects in new products or in enhancements to our existing products that give rise to product returns or warranty or other claims could result in material expenses, diversion of management time and attention and damage to our reputation.. Our 3D printing machines may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as enhancements are released that, despite testing, are not discovered until after a machine has been used. This could result in delayed market acceptance of those machines or claims from sales agents, end-users or others, which may result in litigation, increased end-user service and support costs and warranty claims, damage to our reputation and business or significant costs to correct the defect or error. We may from time to time become subject to warranty or product liability claims related to product quality issues that could lead us to incur significant expenses.. We could face liability if our 3D printers are used by our customers to print dangerous objects.. 15. Customers may use our 3D printing machines to print products that could be used in a harmful way or could otherwise be dangerous. For example, there have been recent news reports that 3D printing machines were used to print guns or other weapons. We have little, if any, control over what objects our customers print using our 3D printing machines, and it may be difficult, if not impossible, for us to monitor and prevent customers from printing weapons with our 3D printing machines. While we have never printed weapons in any of our service centers, there can be no assurance that we will not be held liable if someone were injured or killed by a weapon printed by a customer using one of our 3D printing machines.. If any of our manufacturing facilities or PSCs or EACs are disrupted, sales of our products may be disrupted, which could result in loss of revenues and an increase in unforeseen costs.. We manufacture our machines at our facilities in Gersthofen, Germany and North Huntingdon, Pennsylvania. In addition, we have a network of PSCs and EACs in the United States, Germany, Italy and Japan to provide sales and marketing and delivery of support and printing services to our customers. If the operations of these facilities are materially disrupted, we would be unable to fulfill customer orders for the period of the disruption, we would not be able to recognize revenue on orders and we might need to modify our standard sales terms to secure the commitment of new customers during the period of the disruption and perhaps longer. Depending on the cause of the disruption, we could incur significant costs to remedy the disruption and resume product shipments. Such a disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Under applicable employment laws, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees.. We generally enter into non-competition agreements with our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors or customers for a limited period. We may be unable to enforce these agreements under the laws of the jurisdictions in which our employees work, including Germany and Japan, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from benefitting from the expertise of our former employees or consultants developed while working for us. If we cannot demonstrate that our legally protectable interests will be harmed, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees or consultants and our ability to remain competitive may be diminished.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets and intellectual property.. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that any of our existing or future intellectual property rights will be enforceable, will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or will otherwise provide us with meaningful protection or any competitive advantage.. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, trademarks, confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, end-users and others to maintain our competitive position to protect our proprietary technologies and processes globally. While some of our technology is licensed under patents belonging to others or is covered by process patents which are owned or applied for by us, we have devoted substantial resources to the development of our technology, trade secrets, know-how and other unregistered proprietary rights and much of our key technology is not protected by patents. In particular, in fast-growing markets such as China and India, our technology is not protected by patents.. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies, inventions, processes or improvements.  While we enter into various agreements intended to protect our proprietary rights, these agreements may be breached and confidential information may be willfully or unintentionally disclosed, and these agreements can be difficult and costly to enforce or may not provide adequate remedies if violated.  In addition, our competitors or other parties may learn of our proprietary rights in some other way. Because we cannot legally prevent one or more other companies from developing similar or identical technology to our unpatented technology, it is likely that, over time, one or more other companies may be able to replicate our technology, thereby reducing our technological advantages. If we do not protect our technology or are unable to develop new technology that can be protected by patents or as trade secrets, we may face increased competition from other companies, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. We do, from time to time, apply for patent protection for some of our intellectual property. Our pending patent applications may not be granted. We cannot assure you that any of our existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or will otherwise provide us with meaningful protection. Furthermore, patents are jurisdictional in nature and therefore only protect us in certain markets, rather than globally.  We may not be able to obtain foreign patents corresponding to our United States or foreign patent applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer additive manufacturing systems or other products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents, and we may not be able to detect the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology or take appropriate steps to prevent such use. Any of the foregoing events would lead to increased competition and lower revenues or gross margins, which could adversely affect our operating results.. 16. If our patents and other intellectual property protections do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. We may not be able to detect the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and processes or take appropriate steps to prevent such use. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Any of the foregoing events would lead to increased competition and lower revenue or gross profits, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third-party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings.. In connection with the enforcement of our intellectual property rights, opposing third parties from obtaining patent rights or disputes related to the validity or alleged infringement of our or third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been and may in the future be subject or party to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation, regardless of merit, can be costly and disruptive to our business operations by diverting attention and energies of management and key technical personnel, and by increasing our costs of doing business. We may not prevail in any such dispute or litigation, and an adverse decision in any legal action involving intellectual property rights, including any such action commenced by us, could limit the scope of our intellectual property rights and the value of the related technology. While we strive to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to avoid any infringement claims.. We may be subject to alleged infringement claims.. Our products and technology, including the technology that we license from others, may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. Patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and the publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months or more. As a result, the nature of claims contained in unpublished patent filings around the world is unknown to us, and we cannot be certain that we were the first to conceive inventions covered by our patents or patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications covering such inventions. Furthermore, it is not possible to know in which countries patent holders may choose to extend their filings under the Patent Cooperation Treaty or other mechanisms. In addition, we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from individuals, vendors and other companies, including those that are in the business of asserting patents, but are not commercializing products in the field of 3D printing. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving such claims, and may prohibit or otherwise impair our ability to commercialize new or existing products. Any infringement by us or our licensors of the intellectual property rights of third parties may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement successfully asserted against us may require us to redesign infringing technology or enter into costly settlement or license agreements on terms that are unfavorable to us, prevent us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products and use of infringing technology, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, impose costly damage awards or require indemnification of our sales agents and end-users. In addition, as a consequence of such claims, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products or developing non-infringing substitute technology. Any of the foregoing developments could seriously harm our business.. Certain of our employees and patents are subject to the laws of Germany.. Many of our employees work in Germany and are subject to German employment law. Ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions made by such employees and consultants are subject to the provisions of the German Act on Employees' Inventions (Gesetz über Arbeitnehmererfindungen), which regulates the ownership of, and compensation for, inventions made by employees. We face the risk that disputes can occur between us and our employees or ex-employees pertaining to alleged non-adherence to the provisions of this act that may be costly to defend and take up our management's time and efforts whether we prevail or fail in such dispute. In addition, under the German Act on Employees' Inventions, certain employees retained rights to patents they invented or co-invented prior to 2009. Although most of these employees have subsequently assigned their interest in these patents to us, there is a risk that the compensation we provided to them may be deemed to be insufficient in the future and we may be required under German law to increase the compensation due to such employee for the use of their patent. In those cases where employees have not assigned their interests to us, we may need to pay compensation for the use of those patents. If we are required to pay additional compensation or face other disputes under the German Act on Employees' Inventions, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. Certain of our past and present employees were previously employed at other additive manufacturing companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Some of these employees executed proprietary rights, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements in connection with such previous employment. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. We are not aware of any threatened or pending claims related to these matters, but in the future litigation may be necessary to defend. 17. against such claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable personnel or intellectual property rights. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. As we expand our operations into the United States and elsewhere, we may face similar claims with regard to our future employees in these countries.. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock. We have broad discretion as to the use of the net proceeds from securities offerings and may not use them effectively.. We cannot specify with certainty how we will use the net proceeds that we have received or will receive from securities offerings. Our management has broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds, and we may use these proceeds in ways with which you may disagree or for purposes other than those contemplated at the time of the offering. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pending their use, we may invest the net proceeds from a securities offering in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value.. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock.. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that such sales could occur as a result of our recently announced \"at the market offerings,\" other utilization of our universal shelf registration statement or otherwise could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or the market perception that we are permitted to sell a significant number of our securities would have on the market price of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile and may be significantly affected by numerous factors, including the risk factors described in this report and other factors which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include:. •  Significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies;      •  The mix of products that we sell, and related services that we provide, during any period;      •  Delays between our expenditures to develop and market new products and the generation of sales from those products;      •  Changes in the amount that we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, technologies or businesses;      •  Changes in our expenditures to promote our products and services;      •  Changes in the cost of satisfying our warranty obligations and servicing our installed base of systems;      •  Success or failure of research and development projects of us or our competitors;      •  Announcements of technological innovations, new solutions or enhancements or strategic partnerships or acquisitions by us or one of our competitors;      •  The public's response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC;      •  The general tendency towards volatility in the market prices of shares of companies that rely on technology and innovation;      •  Changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines;      •  Changes or perceived changes in earnings or variations in operating results;      •  Any shortfall in revenue or earnings from levels expected by investors or securities analysts;      •  The market's reaction to our reduced disclosure as a result of being an EGC under the JOBS Act;      •  Threatened or actual litigation;      •  Changes in our senior management; and      •  General economic trends and other external factors.. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our shares, the price of our shares could decline.. The trading market for our shares will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have control over these analysts, and we do not have commitments from them to write research reports about us. The price of our shares could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrades our shares, issues other unfavorable commentary or ceases publishing reports about us or our business.. 18. The price of our shares could decline if there are substantial sales of our common stock, particularly by our directors, their affiliates or our executive officers or when there is a large number of shares of our common stock available for sale. The perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell our shares also could depress the market price of our shares. From time to time, we may conduct offerings of our securities and our executive officers, directors and selling stockholders would be subject to lock-up agreements that restrict their ability to transfer their shares following the offering. The market price of our shares may drop significantly when the restrictions on resale by our existing stockholders lapse and these stockholders are able to sell their shares into the market. If this occurs, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities, should we desire to do so.. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives.. As a public company with shares listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market, we incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we would not incur as a private company. These expenses will increase after we are no longer an EGC on December 31, 2018. We incur significant costs associated with our compliance with the public company reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, requirements imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (most notably Section 404), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, and other rules adopted, and to be adopted, by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market. Compliance with these rules and regulations result in increased legal and financial compliance costs and make certain activities more time-consuming and costly. They also make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we incur substantial costs to maintain sufficient coverage.. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure create uncertainty for public companies generally, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We have invested resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected. We cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur in the future to respond to these constantly evolving requirements. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our board committees or as executive officers.. Our status as an \"Emerging Growth Company\" will end on December 31, 2018.. Our status as an EGC will end on December 31, 2018, which means that we will no longer be able to take advantage of the reporting exemptions that are applicable to EGCs. These exemptions include, but are not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, less extensive disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, exemptions from the requirements to hold a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved and an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. We will continue to operate under these provisions until December 31, 2018.. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, if our share price does not appreciate, our investors may not gain and could potentially lose on their investment in our shares.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock, nor do we anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business and service and repay indebtedness, if any. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our shares will be investors' sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. The right of stockholders to receive liquidation and dividend payments on our common stock is junior to the rights of holders of indebtedness and to any other senior securities we may issue in the future.. Shares of our common stock are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. This means that shares of our common stock will rank junior to all of our indebtedness and to other non-equity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims against us, including our liquidation. Additionally, holders of our common stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of holders of our outstanding preferred stock, if any. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue classes or series of preferred stock in the future without any action on the part of our common stockholders.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. 19. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. The term \"disclosure controls and procedures,\" as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. We are required under Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting.. Additionally, Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires an attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As an EGC, we will not be required to comply with Section 404(b) until we file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, with the SEC, provided we maintain our status as an EGC through December 31, 2018.. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting once that firm begins its Section 404(b) attestations, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, investor groups like Institutional Shareholder Services could initiate a withhold vote campaign with respect to the re-election of the members of our audit committee, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets.. Provisions in our charter documents or Delaware law may inhibit a takeover or make it more difficult to effect a change in control, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain, and Delaware corporate law contains, provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions will apply even if some of our stockholders consider the offer to be beneficial or favorable. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline.. Raising additional capital by issuing securities may cause dilution to our stockholders.. We may need or desire to raise substantial additional capital in the future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others:. •  Research and development investments (including our investment in fine powder capabilities for direct printing and our development efforts tied to large format direct and indirect 3D printing machines);      •  Our degree of success in capturing a larger portion of the industrial products production market;      •  The costs of establishing or acquiring sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities for our products;      •  The costs of preparing, filing, and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our issued patents, and defending intellectual property-related claims;      •  The extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies and other strategic relationships; and      •  The costs of financing unanticipated working capital requirements and responding to competitive pressures.. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, including through the use of our ATM, we will reduce the percentage ownership of our then-existing stockholders, and the holders of those newly-issued equity or convertible debt securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those possessed by our then-existing stockholders. Additionally, future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock.. 20"
