[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. If we cannot effectively drive engagement and monetization on our newly-launched Live feature on our mobile applications, our future operating results may suffer.. Our long term strategy includes continued revenue growth from our Live feature that we launched only in 2017.  We have not completed launch of Live on all of our apps and we cannot be certain that Live will perform as expected at scale. While we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to the launch and monetization of Live across our apps, we also cannot be certain that our early results on Live are predictive of future results and that Live will continue to grow in the future. Furthermore, Live represents a new and unproven form of revenue, and we do not have a long history of monetizing Live. Live may not monetize as we expect and revenues may be adversely affected.  If we do not launch Live across all of our apps as expected, if Live does not grow as expected, or if Live does not perform or monetize as expected, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. If we cannot increase our daily and monthly active users and increase their engagement on our mobile applications, our future operating results may decline.. We offer applications that are free to use, with only a small percentage of our users paying for virtual goods. Our financial performance has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in adding, retaining, and engaging active users. We must continue to add new members to our user base and retain existing members by offering new and engaging features and products, such as Live, in order to generate revenue from the sale of in-app products and attract advertising investment. The challenges we face include, among other things, our ability to:. • attract new users and retain existing users at a consistent rate;. • increase engagement by existing users;. • monetize our user base;. • anticipate changes in the social networking and social discovery industry;. • launch new products and release enhancements that become popular;. • develop and maintain a scalable, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently and reliably handle increased member usage, fast load times and the deployment of new features and applications;. • process, store and use data in compliance with governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy;. 8. Table of Contents. • compete with other companies that are currently in, or may in the future enter, the social networking or social discovery industry;. • hire, integrate and retain world class talent; and. • expand our business internationally and with respect to mobile devices.. If we fail to retain existing users or add new users, or if our users decrease their level of engagement, our revenue, financial results, and business may be significantly harmed.. The size of our user base and our users' level of engagement are critical to our success. Our financial performance is significantly affected by our success in adding, retaining, and engaging active users. If people do not perceive our products to be useful, reliable, and trustworthy, we may not be able to attract or retain users or otherwise maintain or increase the frequency and duration of their engagement. A number of other social networking companies that achieved early popularity have since seen their active user bases or levels of engagement decline, in some cases precipitously. There is no guarantee that we will not experience a similar erosion of our active user base or engagement levels. A decrease in user retention, growth, or engagement could render us less attractive to advertisers, which may have a material and adverse impact on our revenue, business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any number of factors could potentially negatively affect user retention, growth, and engagement, including if we fail to:. • introduce new and improved products that are favorably received;. • identify and respond to emerging technological trends in the market;. • provide a compelling user experience with the decisions we make with respect to the frequency, prominence, and size of advertising and other commercial content we display;. • continue to develop features, such as our Live feature, for mobile devices that users find engaging, that work with a variety of mobile operating systems and networks, and that achieve a high level of market acceptance;. • acquire or license leading technologies;. • avoid technical or other problems that prevent us from delivering our services in a rapid and reliable manner or otherwise affect the user experience; or. • provide adequate customer service to users or advertisers.. If we are unable to maintain and increase our user base and user engagement, our revenue, financial results, and future growth potential could be adversely affected.. We believe the number of our registered users is higher than the number of actual users.. We believe the number of our registered users is higher than the number of actual users because some members may have multiple registrations, other members may have died or may have become incapacitated, and others may have registered under fictitious names. Members also terminate their memberships and delete their profiles. Given the challenges inherent in identifying these accounts, we do not have a reliable system to accurately identify the number of our active members.. If our users do not interact with each other or our viral marketing strategy fails, our ability to attract new users may suffer and our revenue may decrease.. The majority of our users do not visit our mobile applications frequently and spend a limited amount of time when they do visit. The majority of our screen views are generated by a minority of our users. If we are unable to encourage our users to interact more frequently and to increase the amount of user generated content they provide, our ability to attract new users and our financial results may suffer. In addition, part of our success depends on our users interacting with our products and contributing to our viral advertising platform (Social Theater). If our Social Theater platform is unsuccessful and our users do not participate in Social Theater campaigns, our operating results could suffer.. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from advertising, and in particular, digital advertising. If we incur a loss of advertisers, or a reduction in spending by advertisers, our revenue could substantially decline, resulting in significant operating losses and negatively impacting our cash flows.. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from parties advertising on our platform, and, in particular, those advertisers in the digital advertising market. The digital advertising market has been subject to fluctuations and we have experienced declines in ad rates. In 2017 we experienced significant declines in advertising rates that materially and negatively impacted our operating results.  Advertising rates may continue to decline relative to historical levels.  Factors such as the lack of standard metrics in the digital advertising market may lead to varying and inconsistent ad rates and potentially demands for rebates.. 9. Table of Contents. As is common in the industry, our advertisers typically do not have long-term advertising commitments with us. Many of our advertisers spend only a relatively small portion of their overall advertising budget with us. Advertisers may not continue to do business with us, or they may reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver advertising and other commercial content in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return relative to other alternatives. Our advertising revenue could be adversely affected by a number of other factors, including:. • decreases in user engagement, including time spent on our mobile applications;. • product changes or inventory management decisions we may make that reduce the size, frequency, or relative prominence of advertising and other commercial content that we display;. • our inability to increase the rate at which our users \"click through\" on the ads we display;. • our inability to improve our analytics and measurement solutions that demonstrate the value of our advertising and other commercial content;. • loss of advertising market share to our competitors;. • adverse legal developments relating to advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments and developments in litigation;. • adverse media reports or other negative publicity involving us or other companies in our industry;. • objections to the content of our apps and websites;. • changes in the way online advertising is priced;. • changes in the digital advertising market, including the introduction of standard metrics;. • the impact of new technologies that could block or obscure the display of our advertising and other commercial content; and. • the impact of macroeconomic conditions and conditions in the advertising industry, and, in particular, the digital advertising industry, in general.. The occurrence of any of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for our advertising and other commercial content, which could reduce the prices we receive for our advertising and other commercial content, or cause advertisers to stop advertising with us altogether. In turn, we could incur a substantial decline in revenue, increased operating losses, and a negative impact on cash flows.. If we fail to maintain and expand our base of advertisers, our revenue and our business could be harmed.. Our ability to grow our business depends in part on our ability to maintain and expand our advertiser base. To do so, we must ensure that existing and prospective advertisers know that our advertising products offer a material benefit and can generate a competitive return relative to other alternatives, including online, mobile and traditional advertising platforms. Advertisers may not continue to do business with us, or they may reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver ads in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate competitive returns. Our ability to do so depends on factors including:. • Competitiveness of Our Products. We must deliver ads in an effective manner and provide accurate analytics and measurement solutions that demonstrate the value of our advertising products compared to those of our competitors. Similarly, if the pricing of our advertising products does not compare favorably to those of our competitors, advertisers may reduce their advertising with us or choose not to advertise with us at all.. • Traffic Quality. The success of our advertising program depends on delivering positive results to our advertising customers. Low-quality or invalid traffic, such as robots, spiders and the mechanical automation of clicking, may be detrimental to our relationships with advertisers and could adversely affect our advertising pricing and revenue. If we fail to detect and prevent click fraud or other invalid clicks on ads, the affected advertisers may experience or perceive a reduced return on their investments, which could lead to dissatisfaction with our products, refusals to pay, refund demands or withdrawal of future business.. • Perception of Our Platform. Our ability to compete effectively for advertiser budgets depends on our reputation and perceptions regarding our platform.. • Macroeconomic Conditions. Adverse macroeconomic conditions can have a negative impact on the demand for advertising, particularly with respect to online advertising products. Advertisers may have limited advertising budgets and may view online advertising as lower priority than offline advertising.. As is typical in our industry, our advertisers generally do not have long-term obligations to purchase our products. Their decisions to renew depend on the degree of satisfaction with our products as well as a number of factors that are outside of our control. As a result, we may experience attrition in our advertisers in the ordinary course of business resulting from several factors, including objections to the content or reputation of our apps, losses to competitors or declining advertising budgets. The occurrence of any. 10. Table of Contents. of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices we receive for our ads, either of which would negatively affect our revenue and operating results.. Because we face significant competition from other social networks, video platforms and companies with greater resources, we may not be able to compete effectively.. We face significant competition from other companies that seek to connect members online. As we roll out the Live Video Feature across our applications, we expect to face significant competition from other video platforms that provide one-to-many and one-to-one video services.  Our competitors include other companies providing portal and online community and one-to-many and one-to-one video services, such as Match, Facebook, Google, Badoo, PlentyOfFish, OkCupid, live.me, live.ly, musical.ly, Azar, Younow and Periscope. Many of our competitors have greater resources, more established reputations, a broader range of content and products and services, longer operating histories, and more established relationships with their users than we do. They can use their experience and resources against us in a variety of competitive ways, including developing ways to attract and maintain users. These factors may allow our competitors to respond more effectively than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in market requirements. Our competitors may develop products, features, or services that are similar to ours or that achieve greater market acceptance, may undertake more far-reaching and successful efforts at developing new services or marketing campaigns, or may adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Some of our competitors may enjoy better competitive positions in certain geographical regions or within certain user demographics that we currently serve or may serve in the future. These advantages could enable these competitors to offer products that are more appealing to users and potential users than our products or to respond more quickly and/or cost-effectively than us to new or changing opportunities. In addition, within the industry generally, costs for users to switch between products are low, and users have a propensity to try new approaches to connecting with people. As a result, new products, entrants and business models are likely to continue to emerge. It is possible that a new product could gain rapid scale at the expense of existing brands through harnessing a new technology or distribution channel, creating a new approach to connecting people or some other means.. We believe that our ability to compete effectively depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including:. • the usefulness, ease of use, performance, and reliability of our services compared to our competitors;. • the size and composition of our user base;. • the engagement of our users with our services;. • the timing and market acceptance of services, including developments and enhancements to our or our competitors' services;. • our ability to monetize our services;. • the frequency, size, and relative prominence of the advertising and other commercial content displayed by us or our competitors;. • customer service and support efforts;. • marketing and selling efforts;. • changes mandated by legislation, regulatory authorities, or litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us;. • acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors;. • our ability to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, particularly software engineers;. • our ability to cost-effectively manage and grow our operations; and. • our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors.. If we are not able to effectively compete, our user base and level of user engagement may decrease, which could make us less attractive to advertisers and materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. Because we face competition from traditional media companies, we may not be included in the advertising budgets of large advertisers, which could harm our operating results.. Major brand and network advertising drives a significant portion of our revenue. We rely primarily on cost per thousand (\"CPM\") advertising, where the price for advertising is based on the number of users who view it. In addition to mobile application developers and Internet companies, we face competition from companies that offer traditional media advertising opportunities. Most large advertisers have set advertising budgets, a portion of which is allocated to mobile advertising.  If we fail to convince these companies to spend a portion of their advertising budgets on social media and specifically with us, however, our operating results could be harmed.. 11. Table of Contents. We have terminated agreements with our former advertising partner and may not be able to collect amounts due.. On June 2, 2015, we terminated two agreements with Beanstock relating to our advertising inventory on web and mobile: the Web Agreement and the Mobile Agreement. We terminated both agreements for non-payment, and in the third quarter of 2015, we wrote-off the accounts receivable balance under the agreements of $5.7 million as uncollectible. We have filed suit against Beanstock and its guarantor, Adaptive Medias, Inc., and we intend to pursue all available remedies to collect amounts due to us, including liquidated damages under the Mobile Agreement. We cannot guarantee if, when or how much outstanding will be paid to us. We also do not know the amount of time and effort that will be required from management to collect these amounts. On January 20, 2016, the Company received notice from the United States Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware, that a Chapter 7 bankruptcy case against Beanstock had been filed on October 7, 2015. This action has been stayed by the courts as a result of the bankruptcy filing against Beanstock. For a description of the litigation, see Part I, Item 3-Legal Proceedings.. We rely on the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store to distribute our mobile applications. Our business may suffer if we are unable to maintain a good relationship with Apple and Google, if their terms and conditions or pricing change to our detriment, if we violate, or either company believes that we have violated, its terms and conditions, or if either of these platforms are unavailable for a prolonged period of time.. The Apple App Store and the Google Play Store are our primary distribution, marketing, promotion and payment platforms for our applications. In 2017, we derived 33% of our revenue from Apple and 43% of our revenue from Google. Any deterioration in our relationship with Google or Apple could harm our business and adversely affect the value of our stock.. We are subject to these platforms' standard terms and conditions for application developers, which govern the promotion, distribution and operation of apps. These platforms have policies governing, for example, use of user data, personal and sensitive information, and advertising IDs, as well as ones relating to advertising (including deceptive, disruptive and inappropriate ads) and interference with app and device functionality. Each platform has broad discretion to change and interpret its terms of service and other policies with respect to us and those changes may be unfavorable to us. A platform provider may also change its fee structure, add fees associated with access to and use of its platform, alter how we are able to advertise on the platform, change how the personal information of its users is made available to application developers on the platform, or limit the use of personal information for advertising purposes. Our business could be harmed if a platform provider modifies its current terms of service or other policies, including fees, in a manner adverse to us.. If we violate, or if a platform provider believes we have violated, these terms and conditions (or if there is any change or deterioration in our relationship with these platform providers), the particular platform provider may discontinue or limit our access to that platform, which could prevent us from making our apps available to or otherwise from serving our mobile customers. Any limit or discontinuation of our access to any platform could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Apple has a policy of reviewing apps prior to making them available in the App Store.  In the past, Apple has rejected submissions of specific builds of our apps, and we have had to modify those submissions in order to gain acceptance.  On more than one occasion, for example, Apple has rejected our apps because of user generated content and other concerns. In response we devoted additional resources to image review, and changed some of our content allowance policies. Both the review process itself and any necessary resubmissions required in order to gain acceptance can cause delays in the availability of our releases.  If this recurs on a prolonged or frequent basis, or other similar issues arise that impact users' ability to download or use our apps, we may owe some of our customers rebates, which would increase our expenses and lower our gross margins. Delay or failure to gain Apple's acceptance - and therefore availability in the App Store - could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We also rely on the continued operation and availability of these third-party platforms. In the past, platforms have been unavailable for short periods of time or there have been issues with the in-App purchasing functionality from the storefront. In the event that either the Apple App Store or the Google Play Store is unavailable or if in-App purchasing functionality from the storefront is non-operational for a prolonged period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Furthermore, if Google or Apple loses its market position or otherwise falls out of favor with users, we would need to identify alternative channels for marketing, promoting and distributing our apps, which would consume substantial resources and may not be effective. In addition, Google and Apple have broad discretion to change their terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers, and those changes may be unfavorable to us.. 12. Table of Contents. If the Apple App Store or Google Play changes its search and rating algorithms, it could affect our ability to acquire new mobile members.. Our Apple and Google applications have ranked near the top of the \"Free Social\" categories and near the top of many key search terms. However, Apple and Google have changed their rating and search algorithms in the past without notice. Future changes to the rating and search algorithms by Apple or Google could impact our rating and search results, leading to a drop in new downloads, which could cause our business and operating results to suffer.. If we are unable to continue to develop or acquire successful applications for mobile platforms and standalone mobile applications, our growth prospects could suffer.. We have offered applications for mobile platforms since May 2010. We expect to continue to devote substantial resources to the development of our mobile applications and new features, such as Live Video, for our mobile applications, but there can be no assurances that we will continue to succeed in developing or acquiring applications and features that appeal to users or advertisers. We may encounter difficulty in attracting leading advertisers to our mobile applications. We may also face challenges working with wireless carriers, mobile platform providers and other mobile communications partners. Finally, we may face challenges converting mobile users into users that pay for in-app products, such as subscriptions and gifts on our Live Video feature. These and other uncertainties make it difficult to know whether we will continue to succeed in developing commercially viable applications for mobile platforms. If we do not succeed in doing so, our growth prospects could suffer.. If our efforts to attract and retain subscribers is not successful, our business could be adversely affected.. Our ability to continue to attract and retain users of our paid subscription services depends in part on our ability to consistently provide our subscribers with a quality experience. Subscribers may cancel their subscription to our service for many reasons, and if our efforts to attract and retain subscribers are not successful, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected.. If we cannot address technological change in our industry in a timely fashion and develop new services, our future results of operations could be adversely affected.. The Internet and electronic commerce industries are characterized by:. • rapidly changing technology;. • evolving industry standards and practices that could render our platform and proprietary technology obsolete;. • changes in consumer tastes and demands; and. • frequent introductions of new services or products that embody new technologies.. Our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop, license or acquire leading technologies and program formats, enhance our existing services, and respond to technological advances and consumer tastes and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. Developing mobile and website technology involves significant technical and business risks. We may not be able to successfully use new technologies or adapt our platforms and technology to emerging industry standards. We may not be able to remain competitive or sustain growth if we do not adapt to changing market conditions or customer requirements.. Because we plan to continue expanding our operations abroad where we have limited operating experience, we may be subject to increased business, economic and regulatory risks that could affect our financial results.. We plan to continue the international expansion of our business operations. We may enter new international markets where we have limited or no experience in marketing, selling, and deploying our products. If we fail to deploy or manage our operations in international markets successfully, our business could suffer. In addition, we are subject to a variety of risks inherent in doing business internationally, including:. • political, social, or economic instability;. • risks related to the legal and regulatory environment in foreign jurisdictions, including with respect to privacy, and changes in laws, regulatory requirements, and enforcement;. • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws;. • potential damage to our brands and reputation due to our compliance with local laws, including potential censorship or requirements to provide user information to local authorities, and/or potential penalties for failing to comply with such local laws;. 13. Table of Contents. • lack of familiarity with local customs;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • higher levels of credit risk and payment fraud;. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and. • difficulties in staffing and managing global operations and the increased travel, infrastructure.. If we are unable to expand internationally and manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our financial results could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to implement payment gateways to our users, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We conduct our business in countries outside of the U.S. and depend on payment gateways that are not as well developed as those in the U.S., where most people have credit cards or bank debit cards to use in paying for virtual goods, products, and services. Users in some countries in which we operate do not always have access to credit and debit cards and other payment methods common in the U.S. If we are unable to implement payment gateways that provide our members with the ability to pay for goods, products and services easily, our future results could be adversely affected. Additionally, our inability to collect and receive payments from these other sources could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Because we rely on Facebook as a distribution, marketing, and promotion platform, if our relationship with Facebook changes or if Facebook loses market share, our business could be adversely affected.. Facebook is an important distribution, marketing and promotion platform for our content and applications. We generate a number of our new users through the Facebook platform and we expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As such, we are subject to Facebook's standard terms and conditions for Facebook Connect and for application developers, which govern the promotion, distribution and operation of applications on the Facebook platform.. Our ability to acquire new members and provide services to our existing members could be harmed if:. • Facebook discontinues or limits access to its platform by us and other application developers;. • Facebook modifies its terms of service or other policies, including changing how the personal information of its users is made available to application developers on the Facebook platform or shared by users;. • Facebook develops its own competitive offerings; or. • Facebook disallows our advertising in its platforms.. We have benefited from Facebook's strong brand recognition and large user base. If Facebook loses its market position or otherwise falls out of favor with users, we would need to identify alternative channels for marketing, promoting and distributing our content and applications, which could consume substantial resources and may not be effective. In addition, Facebook has broad discretion to change its terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers, and any such changes could be unfavorable. Facebook may also change its fee structure or add fees associated with access to and use of the Facebook platform.. Because our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and other matters, we could be subject to claims, changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise sustain harm to our business.. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including user privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, intellectual property, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, taxation, and online payment services. Foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. The application and interpretation of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. In addition, federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact new or additional laws and regulations concerning data privacy and retention issues which could adversely impact our business. The interpretation and application of privacy, data protection and data retention laws and regulations are currently unsettled in the U.S. and internationally. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our current data protection policies and practices. Complying with these varying state to state or international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. 14. Table of Contents. We are also subject to laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances we can transfer, process and/or receive transnational data that is critical to our operations, including data relating to users, customers, or partners outside the U.S., and those laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to change.. Proposed legislation and regulations could also significantly affect our business. There currently are a number of proposals pending before federal, state, and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies, including the General Data Protection Regulation, a comprehensive privacy and data protection reform, adopted by the European Union in April 2016. It is effective May 2018, and may have impacts on the collection and processing of personal data of European Union individuals which may impact our ability to target ads and otherwise monetize user data, as well as significant penalties for non-compliance. Similarly, there are a number of legislative proposals in the U.S., at both the federal and state level, that could impose new obligations in areas affecting our business.. We use email, push notifications, and text message campaigns to drive user engagement. Disruptions in, restrictions on, and certain legal risks associated with the sending or receipt of emails, push notifications, or text messages or a decrease in user willingness to receive emails, push notifications, and text messages could adversely affect our revenues and business.. We use email, push notifications, and text message campaigns to drive user engagement. We send a large volume of emails, push notifications, and text messages to users notifying them of a variety of activities on our platform, such as new connections. We also rely on the use of email, push notifications, and text messages as a part of our registration and validation processes. Because of the importance of email, push notifications, and text messages to our business, if we are unable to successfully deliver emails, push notifications, or text messages to our users or if users consistently decline to open our emails, push notifications, or text messages, our business could be adversely affected.. We also face a risk that service providers or email applications may block bulk message transmissions or otherwise experience technical difficulties that result in our inability to successfully deliver emails, push notifications, or text messages to our users. Third parties may also block our emails as spam, impose restrictions on our emails, push notifications, or text messages, or start to charge for the delivery of emails through their email systems. In addition, changes in how webmail applications organize and prioritize email may reduce the number of users opening our emails. For example, Google's Gmail service has a feature that organizes incoming emails into categories (for example, primary, social and promotions). Such categorization or similar inbox organizational features may result in our emails being delivered in a less prominent location in a user's inbox or viewed as \"spam\" by our users and could reduce the likelihood of that user opening our emails.. Email communications may subject us to potential risks, such as liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited email or spamming, lost or misdirected messages, security breaches, illegal or fraudulent use of email or personal information or interruptions or delays in email service. For example, in the U.S., the CAN-SPAM Act establishes certain requirements for the distribution of \"commercial\" email messages and provides for penalties for transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. In addition, some countries and states have passed laws regulating commercial email practices that are, in some cases, significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than the CAN-SPAM Act.. Push notifications and text messages may subject us to potential risks, including liabilities or claims relating to consumer protection laws. For example, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, or the TCPA, restricts telemarketing and the use of automatic SMS text messages without proper consent. The Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, has guidelines that impose responsibilities on companies with respect to communications with consumers, such as text messages, and impose fines and liability for failure to comply with rules with respect to advertising or marketing practices it may deem misleading or deceptive. Furthermore, a number of states and countries have enacted statutes that address telemarketing through SMS text messages. Restrictions on marketing through text messages are enforced in the U.S. by the FTC, the Federal Communications Commission, state agencies and through the availability of statutory damages and class action lawsuits for violations of the TCPA or similar laws. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to our use of push notifications and text messages are continuously evolving and developing. If we do not comply with these laws or regulations, are named in a lawsuit involving these laws or regulations, or if we become liable under these laws or regulations, we could be harmed, and we could be forced to implement new marketing methods, which could be costly or ineffective.. Without the ability to deliver emails, push notifications, and text messages to our users we may have limited means of maintaining contact and inducing them to use our platform. Due to the importance of email, push notifications, and text messages to our business, any disruptions or restrictions on the distribution or receipt of emails, push notifications, or text messages or increase in the associated costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. 15. Table of Contents. Technologies have been developed that can block the display of our ads, which could adversely affect our financial results.. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from advertising, and technologies have been developed, and will likely continue to be developed, that can block the display of our ads on our website and our mobile applications. These technologies could have had an adverse effect on our financial results and, if such technologies continue to proliferate, in particular with respect to mobile platforms, our future financial results may be harmed.. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.. Our ability to attract, retain and serve our users and conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant and widespread disruption to our infrastructure or systems. The incidence of malicious technology-related events, such as cyber-attacks, computer hacking, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, distributed denial of service attacks or other malicious activities (or any combination of these events) are on the rise worldwide and constantly evolving. From time to time, we may become the victim of these types of attacks. Our technologies, systems, networks and our users' devices have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information of the Company, our employees or sensitive information provided by our users, or otherwise disrupt our or our users' or other third parties' business operations.. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and users, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our users use to access our products and services could result in the loss of users and business opportunities, significant business disruption to the Company's operations and business, misappropriation of the Company's confidential information and/or that of its users, or damage to the Company's computers or systems and/or those of its users and/or counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy laws and other laws, litigation exposure, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, loss of confidence in the Company's security measures, reputational damage, and additional compliance costs. Furthermore, we may become a victim of security breaches, such as the misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of user, customer or vendor data maintained in our information technology systems or those of third parties with whom we do business (or upon whom we otherwise rely in connection with our day to day operations). While we continuously develop and maintain systems to detect and prevent events of this nature from impacting our various businesses, these efforts are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome preventative security measures become more sophisticated. Furthermore, we may become a victim of security breaches, such as the misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of user, customer or vendor data maintained in our information technology systems or those of third parties with whom we do business (or upon whom we otherwise rely in connection with our day to day operations).. If we experience computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks, and spamming, it could harm our business.. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking, and phishing attacks are prevalent in the social media industry, have occurred on our systems in the past and may occur on our systems in the future. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, or the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience hacking attacks. Though it is difficult to determine what harm may directly result from any specific interruption or breach, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure to the satisfaction of our users could harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing users and attract new users. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose users, and we could suffer financial exposure due to such events or in connection with remediation efforts, investigation costs, litigation, changed security, and system protection measures.. Increased government regulation could adversely affect our business.. Due to the rapid growth and widespread use of mobile applications and the Internet, national and local governments are enacting and considering various laws and regulations. In February of 2015, for example, the United States Federal Communication Commission announced its \"net neutrality\" intention of regulating broadband Internet providers as common carriers under Title II of the Communications Act of 1934 and Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. We face uncertainty as to the impact of this decision and other government regulation on our business. New laws and regulations designed to protect consumers. 16. Table of Contents. could adversely affect our business and operations by exposing us to substantial compliance costs and liabilities and impeding growth in use of mobile applications or the Internet. Furthermore, the application of existing domestic laws and regulations remains somewhat unclear, and courts may apply these laws in unintended and unexpected ways. While online dating and social networking websites are not currently required to verify the age or identity of their members or to run criminal background checks on them, for example, any such requirements could increase our cost of operations or discourage use of our services.. As a provider of social networking products with a membership-based element, we are also subject to laws and regulations in certain U.S. states and other countries that apply to our automatically-renewing membership payment models. Certain U.S. states and certain countries in Asia also have laws that specifically govern dating services.. As we continue to expand internationally, both with our acquisition of Lovoo and our increased number of international users, we could also become increasingly subject to foreign laws and regulations which could be inconsistent from country to country. Foreign governments could restrict mobile applications or Internet social networking usage, pass laws that negatively impact our business, or prosecute us for our services. We could incur substantial liabilities for expenses necessary to comply with laws and regulations or penalties for any failure to comply. Additionally, restrictions and compliance costs associated with current and possible future laws and regulations could harm our business and operating results.. If laws that tax usage and sales on the Internet are enacted, increased taxes could adversely affect the commercial use of our marketing services and our financial results.. Due to the global nature of mobile applications and the Internet, it is possible that governments might attempt to tax our activities, including the sale of virtual currency. New or revised tax regulations may subject us to additional sales, use, income, and other taxes. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income, or other taxes on commerce over the Internet. New or revised taxes and especially sales taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online, reduce sales, and decrease the attractiveness of advertising on mobile applications or the Internet. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our failure to comply with existing or future laws, regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business.. We have posted our own privacy policies concerning the collection, use, and disclosure of user data. Any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, Federal Trade Commission requirements or orders, or other federal, state or foreign privacy or consumer protection-related laws, regulations or industry self-regulatory principles, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other user data, could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities, consumer advocacy groups, individuals, or others, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, there are numerous privacy laws in the countries in which we operate regarding privacy and the storage, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of this kind of information, the scope of which are changing, inconsistent and conflicting and subject to differing interpretations. Our efforts to protect the information that our users have chosen to share may be unsuccessful due to the actions of third parties, software bugs or other technical malfunctions, employee error or malfeasance, or other factors. In addition, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose information in order to gain access to our data or our users' data. If any of these events occur, our users' information could be accessed or disclosed improperly.. While we believe that we comply with industry standards and applicable laws and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection, there is no assurance that we will not be subject to claims that we have violated applicable laws or codes of conduct or that we will be able to successfully defend against such claims. Further, actual or perceived failure by us to comply with our policies, applicable requirements, or industry self-regulatory principles related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information, or other privacy or data protection-related matters could result in a loss of user confidence in us, damage to our brands, and ultimately in a loss of users and advertising partners, any of which could adversely affect our business.. We have been subject to regulatory investigations and governmental legal proceedings and we expect to be subject to the same in the future, which could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business.. From time to time, we receive inquiries from regulators and other governmental entities regarding our compliance with laws and other matters. On February 3, 2014, the San Francisco City Attorney filed a complaint against the Company in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Francisco, alleging that the Company engaged in unfair business practices with respect to its use of information relating to minors, and particularly with respect to location information and the Company's disclosure of such use. On August 7, 2015, the Company entered into a Settlement and Mutual Release (the \"Settlement and Release\"\") with. 17. Table of Contents. the People of the State of California (the \"People\") resolving all claims relating to this case. Pursuant to the Settlement and Release, the Company agreed, inter alia, to (i) implement a number of privacy-related product changes, (ii) restate its Terms of Service and Privacy Policy, and (iii) pay $200,000 to the People. On August 19, 2015, the Court dismissed the litigation with prejudice.. We anticipate that we will continue to be a target for regulators and other governmental entity inquiry, particularly given the uptick in enforcement actions. Responding to or defending such actions could cause us to incur substantial expenses and divert our management's attention. If we are unsuccessful, we could be subject to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations; furthermore, we could have to change our business practices which could impair our ability to obtain new users or provide service to our users. Any change in our business practices or defense of a legal action or regulatory investigation or action could reduce our future revenues and increase our costs and adversely affect our future operating results.. Violation of existing or future regulatory or judicial orders or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, future orders issued by, or enforcement actions initiated by, regulatory authorities could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. If our users fail to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, it could adversely affect our business.. We provide platforms for meeting new people. Although we devote substantial resources to member services and safety, our users have in the past and will likely in the future commit crimes against other users or violate other laws in interacting with such users, which could impair our brands and raise the prospect of litigation that may be costly to defend. Additionally, any inappropriate content or behavior by our users could cause our mobile apps to be removed from the App Store and/or Google Play, which could adversely affect our business.. We face certain risks related to the physical and emotional safety of our users.. The nature of online services that connect new people is such that we cannot control the actions of our users in their communication or physical actions. There is a possibility that one or more of our users could be physically or emotionally harmed following interaction with another one of our users. This has happened in the past and we expect it will continue to happen in the future. Given our lack of physical presence, we do not take any action to ensure personal safety on a meeting between users arranged following contact initiated with our apps. If an unfortunate incident of this nature occurred in a meeting of two people following contact initiated on our app or on the platform of one of our competitors, any resulting negative publicity could materially and adversely affect us or our industry in general. Any such incident involving our apps could damage our reputation and our brands.  In addition, the affected users could initiate legal action against us, which could cause us to incur significant expense, whether we were successful or not, and damage our reputation. Concerns for such harms and the use of dating products and social networking platforms for illegal conduct could produce future legislation or other governmental action that could require changes to our products, restrict or impose additional costs upon the conduct of our business or cause users to abandon our products.. Shareholder activism could cause a disruption to our business.. On June 27, 2017 and January 5, 2018, the Company entered into Cooperation Agreements with Harvest Small Cap Partners Master Ltd., Harvest Small Cap Partners, LP, Harvest Small Cap Partners GP, LLC, Harvest Capital Strategies, LLC, and Jeff Osher (collectively \"Harvest\") and Kanen Wealth Management LLC and David L. Kanen (collectively, \"Kanen\"), respectively. Each of Harvest and Kanen own shares or had previously owned shares of the Company's common stock. Pursuant to their respective Cooperation Agreements, we agreed to make certain changes to the composition of our Board in exchange for each of Harvest's and Kanen's agreement to certain customary standstill provisions. Activist investors may continue to attempt to effect changes in our strategic direction and how we are governed, or to acquire control.  While we welcome varying opinions from all shareholders, activist campaigns that contest or conflict with our strategic direction could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition as responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can disrupt our operations, be costly and time-consuming, and divert the attention of our board and senior management from the pursuit of business strategies.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and divert management's attention.. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased and may continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources. As a result,. 18. Table of Contents. management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and operating results. In addition, complying with public disclosure rules makes our business more visible, which could result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be harmed, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and operating results.. If we do not attract and retain highly qualified employees, we may not be able to grow effectively.. Our ability to compete and grow depends in large part on the efforts and talents of our executive officers and other employees. Such employees, particularly product managers and engineers for both web and mobile applications, quality assurance personnel, graphic designers and salespeople, are in high demand, and we devote significant resources to identifying, hiring, training, successfully integrating and retaining these employees. We require certain key employees to enter into employment agreements, but in the U.S. employees are free to leave an employer at any time without penalties. The loss of key employees or the inability to hire additional skilled employees as necessary could result in significant disruptions of our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be time-consuming and expensive and cause us additional disruptions.. If we experience any failure or significant interruption in our network, it could harm our business.. Our technology infrastructure is critical to the performance of our mobile applications and website and to user satisfaction. Any damage to or failure of our systems or our inability to scale our systems could result in interruptions in our service. We lease space for our data center and rely on a co-location partner for power, security, connectivity and other services. We also rely on cloud service providers for much of our data storage needs, and rely on third party providers for bandwidth and content delivery. We do not control these vendors and it would take significant time and effort to replace some of them. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, website disruptions, outages, and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, and capacity constraints. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, hurricanes, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, hacker attacks, or other attempts to harm our systems.  Our apps have experienced, for example, denial of service and other hacker attacks in the past, and we expect such attacks will continue to occur in the future.  If our mobile applications or website are unavailable when users attempt to access them or navigation through an application is slower than they expect, users may stop using them and become less likely to return as often, if at all. We expect to continue to make significant investments in our technology infrastructure to maintain and improve all aspects of user experience. To the extent that our disaster recovery systems are not adequate, or we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate current and increasing traffic, our business and operating results could suffer.. Because our software is highly technical, undetected errors, if any, could adversely affect our business.. Our products incorporate software that is highly technical and complex. Our software has contained, and may now or in the future contain, undetected errors, bugs, flaws, corrupted data or vulnerabilities. Some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the code has been released. Any errors, bugs, flaws, corrupted data or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, loss of revenue, or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to compete with competitors developing similar products.. We regard the protection of our trademarks, trade dress, domain names, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights as critical to our success. We strive to protect our intellectual property by relying on federal, state, and common law rights, as well as foreign rights and contractual restrictions. We pursue the registration of domain names and trademarks in the U.S. and a number of foreign jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time-consuming and may not be successful or inclusive enough. Our efforts may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter the independent development of similar products by others. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results and circumstances beyond our control could threaten our intellectual property rights. Although we have taken measures to protect our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that others will not offer products or concepts that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business. We regularly contribute software source code under open source licenses and have made other technology we developed available under other open licenses, and we include open source software in our products. As a result of our open source contributions and the use of open source in our products, we may license or be required to license innovations that could turn out to be material to our business and we could also be exposed to increased litigation risk. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent unauthorized use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brands and other intangible assets. 19. Table of Contents. could be diminished and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. If we become subject to intellectual property infringement claims, it could cause us to incur significant expenses, pay substantial damages and prevent service delivery.. Companies in the mobile application, Internet, social media technology, and other industries, as well as individual artists and entertainers, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, and trademarks and frequently request license agreements, threaten litigation, or file suit based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. From time to time, we face, and expect to face in the future, legal actions and other allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including competitors and non-practicing entities. As we face increasing competition and as our business grows and changes, we could face more claims of infringement. Any such claims, regardless of merit or outcome, could result in substantial costs, adverse publicity or diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we do not prevail against such claims, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be obligated to indemnify our business partners. Furthermore, we could be prevented from providing products and services unless we enter into license or other agreements. We may not be able to obtain such agreements at all or on terms acceptable to us, and as a result, we could be precluded from offering certain products and services.. Class action lawsuits or other litigation matters are expensive and time consuming, and could harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. In addition to intellectual property claims, we may also become involved in numerous other lawsuits, including putative class action lawsuits brought by users and marketers, or litigation relating to our business transactions or related third party transactions. We anticipate that we will continue to be a target for such lawsuits, particularly given the uptick in class action lawsuits. Defending such lawsuits or any negative outcomes from them could result in payments of substantial fees, monetary damages or fines, or changes to our products or business practices, and accordingly our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. Any litigation to which we are a party may result in an onerous or unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal or in payments of substantial monetary damages or fines, or we may decide to settle lawsuits on similarly unfavorable terms, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We utilize debt financing and such indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share. We may be unable to meet our payment obligations.. We incur indebtedness to finance our operations and we have substantial amounts of outstanding indebtedness and debt service requirements. Our credit facility contains customary affirmative, negative and financial covenants. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations and covenants under our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. There is no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing (or any amended) credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet payment obligations under any indebtedness we may incur from time to time. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations or meet required debt covenants, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. There is no assurance that we will be able to implement any of these alternatives on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under any indebtedness we owe. In addition, an inability to meet our payment obligations under any indebtedness may trigger a default, and possible acceleration of payment terms, under the applicable debt financing agreements.. Risks Related to our Stock. Because our stock price may be volatile due to factors beyond our control, you could lose all or part of your investment.. Our operating results have been in the past, and in the future are likely to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, including:. • changes in the number of our daily and monthly active users;. • changes in visits by our active users;. • independent reports relating to the metrics of our mobile applications or website;. • our failure to generate increases in revenue;. • our failure to meet the challenges of monetizing our users;. 20. Table of Contents. • our failure to achieve or maintain profitability;. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new services, or acquisitions;. • commercial relationships, joint ventures, or capital commitments;. • the loss of significant business relationships;. • changes in market valuations of social media companies;. • the loss of major advertisers;. • future acquisitions or combinations;. • the departure of key personnel;. • short selling activities; or. • regulatory developments.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's time and attention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Because we may issue preferred stock without the approval of our shareholders, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress our stock price.. Our Board of Directors, or Board, may issue, without a vote of our shareholders, one or more additional series of preferred stock that have more than one vote per share. This could permit our Board to issue preferred stock to investors who support our management and give effective control of our business to our management. Additionally, issuance of preferred stock could block an acquisition resulting in both a drop in our stock price and a decline in interest of our common stock. This could make it more difficult for shareholders to sell their common stock. This could also cause the market price of our common stock shares to drop significantly, even if our business is otherwise performing well.. Because most of our outstanding shares are freely tradable, sales of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is otherwise performing well.. As of March 12, 2018, we had 72,040,500 shares of common stock outstanding of which our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 5% which are subject to the limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Most of the remaining outstanding shares, including a substantial amount of shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants and options, are and will be freely tradable. Because most of our outstanding shares are freely tradable and a number of shares held by our affiliates may be freely sold (subject to Rule 144 limitation), sales of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is otherwise performing well.. If registration rights that we have previously granted are exercised, or if we grant additional registration rights in the future, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected.. We may be obligated to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission shares of common stock, which may then be sold in the open market. The sale of a significant amount of shares in the open market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or become highly volatile.. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our common stock may depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Because few securities or industry analysts currently cover our business, undue weight could be placed on any one analyst report. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price could decline.. We may require additional capital to meet our financial obligations and support business growth, which might not be available on acceptable terms or at all.. We intend to continue to make significant investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new applications or enhance our existing applications with new or improved features such as Live Video, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses, personnel and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new. 21. Table of Contents. equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional funds may be directly related to the strength of the capital and financial markets and the economy both in the U.S. and internationally. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. Additionally, if our existing resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may need to borrow money or sell additional equity or debt securities. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business could be harmed.. If we default on our leasing and credit obligations, our operations may be interrupted and our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. We finance a portion of our expenditures through leasing arrangements, some of which are not required to be reflected on our balance sheet, and we may enter into additional similar arrangements in the future. In particular, we have used these types of arrangements to finance some of our equipment and data centers. If we default on these leasing and credit obligations, our leasing partners and lenders may, among other things:. • require repayment of any outstanding lease obligations;. • terminate our leasing arrangements;. • stop delivery of ordered equipment;. • sell or require us to return our leased equipment; or. • require us to pay significant damages.. If some or all of these events were to occur, our operations could be interrupted and our ability to fund our operations or obligations, as well as our business, financial results, and financial condition, could be adversely affected.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes could be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal and state net operating loss carry forwards, or NOLs, of $68.6 million available to offset future taxable income, that we believe are not currently subject to an annual limitation under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, or the Code. Our ability to use our NOLs may be limited if we undergo an \"ownership change,\" as defined in Section 382 of the Code. An ownership change could be triggered by substantial changes in the ownership of our outstanding stock. For example, an ownership change would occur if certain shareholders increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding any potential ownership change.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act imposes limitations on the utilization of NOLs generated after December 31, 2017 to 80% of taxable income.  In addition, our ability to use any NOLs depends on the amount of taxable income that we generate in future periods. The NOLs may expire before we can generate sufficient taxable income to use them. The Company has provided a full valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets, consisting primarily of net operating losses, because evidence does not indicate that the deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized. The NOLs, if not offset against future income, will begin to expire at various dates through 2035.. Short sellers of our stock may be manipulative and may drive down the market price of our common stock.. Short selling is the practice of selling securities that the seller does not own but rather has borrowed or intends to borrow from a third party with the intention of buying identical securities at a later date to return to the lender. A short seller hopes to profit from a decline in the value of the securities between the sale of the borrowed securities and the purchase of the replacement shares, as the short seller expects to pay less in that purchase than it received in the sale. As it is therefore in the short seller's interest for the price of the stock to decline, some short sellers publish, or arrange for the publication of, opinions or characterizations regarding the relevant issuer, its business prospects and similar matters calculated to or which may create negative market momentum, which may permit them to obtain profits for themselves as a result of selling the stock short. Issuers, like us, whose securities have historically had limited trading volumes and/or have been susceptible to relatively high volatility levels can be particularly vulnerable to such short seller attacks. The publication of such commentary has, and may in the future, cause a temporary, or possibly long term, decline in the market price of our common stock. No assurances can be made that declines in the market price of our common stock will not occur in the future in connection with such commentary by short sellers or otherwise.. 22. Table of Contents. Risks Related to the Acquisitions of Skout, if(we) and Lovoo. We face additional risks as a result of our acquisitions of Skout, if(we) and Lovoo and may be unable to integrate our businesses successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the acquisition or do so within the anticipated timeframe.. We completed our acquisitions of Skout, if(we) and Lovoo (collectively, the \"Acquired Companies\") on October 3, 2016, April 3, 2017 and October 19, 2017, respectively (individually, the \"Skout Acquisition\", the \"if(we) Acquisition\" and the \"Lovoo Acquisition\" and, collectively, the \"Acquisitions\"). Each Acquisition involved a combination of two companies that previously operated as independent companies, and, as a result of the Acquisitions, the combined company faces various additional risks, including, among others, the following:. • our inability to successfully evaluate and utilize the Acquired Companies' products, technology or personnel;. • disruption to the Acquired Companies' businesses and operations and relationships with service providers, advertisers, employees and other partners;. • negative effects on our products and product pipeline from the changes and potential disruption that may follow the Acquisitions;. • diversion of our management's attention from other strategic activities;. • our inability to successfully combine the businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the Acquisitions;. • diversion of significant resources from the ongoing development of our existing operations; and. • greater than anticipated costs related to the integration of the Acquired Companies' businesses and operations into ours.. Our ability to execute all such plans will depend on various factors, many of which remain outside our control. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business and financial results.. The process of integrating the Acquired Companies' operations into our operations could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and require significant resources.. The following factors, among others, could reduce our revenues and earnings, increase our operating costs, and result in a loss of projected synergies:. • if we are unable to successfully integrate the benefit plans, duties and responsibilities, and other factors of interest to the management and employees of the Acquired Companies, we could lose employees to our competitors, which could significantly affect our ability to operate the business and complete the integration;. • if we are unable to implement and retain uniform standards, controls, policies, procedures and information system; and. • if the integration process causes any delays with the delivery of our services, or the quality of those services, we could lose users and ultimately advertisers, which would reduce our revenues and earnings.. The process of integrating the Acquired Companies and their associated technologies involves numerous risks that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or stock price.. The following factors, among others, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or stock price:. • expenses related to the acquisition process and impairment charges to goodwill and other intangible assets related to the Acquisitions;. • the dilutive effect on earnings per share as a result of issuances of stock and incurring operating losses;. • stock volatility due to investors' uncertainty regarding the values of the Acquired Companies;. • diversion of capital from other uses;. • failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisitions in a timely manner, or at all; and. • adverse outcome of litigation matters or other contingent liabilities assumed in or arising out of the Acquisitions.. 23. Table of Contents. Notwithstanding the due diligence investigations we performed in connection with the Acquisitions, the Acquired Companies may have liabilities, losses, or other exposures for which we do not have adequate insurance coverage, indemnification, or other protection.. While we performed significant due diligence on each of the Acquired Companies prior to the Acquisitions, we are dependent on the accuracy and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by Skout, if(we) and Lovoo and each of their respective representatives when conducting due diligence and evaluating the results of such due diligence. We did not control and may be unaware of activities of Skout, if(we) or Lovoo before the Acquisitions, including intellectual property and other litigation claims or disputes, information security vulnerabilities, violations of laws, policies, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities.. Our post-closing recourse from the Acquired Companies is limited under their respective acquisition agreements.. Skout's obligation to indemnify us is limited to, among others, breaches of specified representations and warranties and covenants included in the merger agreement for the Skout Acquisition (the \"Skout Merger Agreement\") and other specific indemnities as set forth in the Skout Merger Agreement. Except in the event Skout breaches a Fundamental Representation (as defined in the Skout Merger Agreement), we cannot make a claim for indemnification pursuant to the Skout Merger Agreement unless and until the indemnifiable losses exceed $250,000 and we cannot make a claim for a breach of a non-Fundamental Representation after the date that is 18 months after the date of closing of the Skout Acquisition. If any issues arise post-closing, we may not be entitled to sufficient, or any, indemnification or recourse from Skout, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. if(we)'s obligation to indemnify us is limited to, among others, breaches of specified representations and warranties and covenants included in the merger agreement for the if(we) Acquisition (the \"if(we) Merger Agreement\") and other specific indemnities as set forth in the if (we) Merger Agreement. Except in the event if(we) breaches a Fundamental Representation (as defined in the if(we) Merger Agreement), we cannot make a claim for indemnification pursuant to the if (we) Merger Agreement (i) for any individual Loss (as defined in the if(we) Merger Agreement) or group of related Losses until such Loss of group of related Losses exceeds $25,000 and (ii) unless and until the indemnifiable Losses exceed $300,000 and we cannot make a claim for a breach of a non-Fundamental Representation after the date that is 12 months after the date of closing of the if(we) Acquisition. If any issues arise post-closing, we may not be entitled to sufficient, or any, indemnification or recourse from if(we), which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Lovoo's obligation to indemnify us is limited to, among others, breaches of specified representations and warranties and covenants included in the purchase agreement for the Lovoo Acquisition (the \"Lovoo Purchase Agreement\") and other specific indemnities as set forth in the Lovoo Purchase Agreement. Except in the event Lovoo breaches a Fundamental Representation (as defined in the Lovoo Purchase Agreement), we cannot make a claim for indemnification pursuant to the Lovoo Purchase Agreement (i) for any Guarantee Claims (as defined in the Lovoo Purchase Agreement) resulting from an individual breach unless such breach exceeds $65,000 (provided that Guarantee Claims of the same or similar  and nature shall be aggregated) and (ii) unless and until the aggregate amount of all Guarantee Claims resulting from all individual breaches exceeds $650,000, and we cannot make a claim for a breach of a non-Fundamental Guarantee after the date that is 24 months after the date of closing of the Lovoo Acquisition. If any issues arise post-closing, we may not be entitled to sufficient, or any, indemnification or recourse from Lovoo, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial results, which we report in U.S. dollars.. We operate in various international markets, primarily in various jurisdictions within the European Union, and as result are exposed to foreign exchange risk. We translate international revenues into U.S. dollar-denominated operating results and during periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our international revenues will be reduced when translated into U.S. dollars. In addition, as foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate, the translation of our international revenues into U.S. dollar-denominated operating results affects the period-over-period comparability of such results.. We accept cryptocurrency, such as bitcoins, as a form of payment which may subject us to exchange risk and additional tax and regulatory requirements.. In 2017, we began accepting Bitcoins as a form of payment on the Lovoo app. Bitcoin is not considered legal tender or backed by any government, and it has experienced price volatility, technological glitches and various law enforcement and regulatory interventions. The use of cryptocurrency such as bitcoin has been prohibited or effectively prohibited by some countries. If we fail to comply with regulations and prohibitions applicable to us, we could face regulatory or other enforcement actions and. 24. Table of Contents. potential fines and other consequences. We may also hold bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies directly, and we have exchange rate risk in the amounts we hold as well as the risks that regulatory or other developments may adversely affect the value of the cryptocurrencies we hold. There is substantial uncertainty regarding legal and regulatory requirements relating to cryptocurrencies or transactions utilizing cryptocurrencies. These uncertainties, as well as potential accounting and tax issues, or other requirements relating to cryptocurrencies could have a material adverse effect on our business."
