[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks. An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.. Our increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks.. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, our loan portfolio included $727.3 million, or 63.3%, and $667.1 million, or 61.3%, respectively, of commercial real estate loans, $110.3 million, or 9.6%, and $101.9 million, or 9.4%, respectively, of residential rental loans, $56.4 million, or 4.9% and $50.5 million, or 4.6%, respectively of commercial business loans and $35.9 million, or 3.1% and $39.7 million, or 3.7%, respectively, of commercial equipment loans. We intend to maintain our emphasis on these types of loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss and require a commensurately higher loan loss allowance than owner-occupied one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business and equipment loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flows of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, $3.5 million, or 73.5% and $4.6 million, or 55.4%, respectively, of our non-accrual loans of $4.7 million and $8.4 million, respectively, consisted of commercial loans.. Our provision for loan losses has been improving as the Company’s credit metrics have improved. We may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $1.0 million and $2.4 million, respectively. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $355,000 and $1.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our non-accrual loans, OREO and accruing TDRs aggregated $24.1 million, or 1.71% of total assets and $26.6 million, or 1.99% of total assets, respectively, at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Additionally, loans that were classified as special mention and substandard were $40.4 million and $30.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017 and 2016. We had $0 and $137,000 in loans classified as doubtful and no loans classified as loss at December 31, 2017 and 2016. If the economy and/or the real estate market weakens, more of our classified loans may become non-performing and we may be required to take additional provisions to increase our allowance for loan losses for these assets as the value of the collateral may be insufficient to pay any remaining net loan balance, which would have a negative effect on our results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results.. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent, non-accrual and classified loans, TDRs and foreclosed real estate. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider other qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, anticipated duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, and trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates.. 27. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by our regulators, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If we do not effectively manage our credit risk, we may experience increased levels of non-performing loans, charge-offs and delinquencies, which would require additional increases in our provision for loan losses.. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of non-payment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and cash flows available to service debt and risks resulting from changes in economic and market conditions. Our credit risk approval and monitoring procedures may not reduce these credit risks, and they cannot be expected to completely eliminate our credit risks. If the overall economic climate in the United States, generally, or our market areas, specifically, fails to improve, or even if it does improve, our borrowers may experience difficulties in repaying their loans, and the level of non-performing loans, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise and require further increases in the provision for loan losses, which would cause our net income and return on equity to decrease.. Non-performing and classified assets could take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future.. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, our non-accrual loans totaled $4.7 million, or 0.41% of our loan portfolio and $8.4 million, or 0.77% of our loan portfolio, respectively. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, our non-accrual loans, OREO and accruing TDRs totaled $24.1 million, or 1.71% of total assets and $26.6 million, or 1.99% of total assets, respectively. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not accrue interest income on non-accrual loans or foreclosed properties, thereby adversely affecting our net income and returns on assets and equity, increasing our loan administration costs and adversely affecting our efficiency ratio. When we take collateral in foreclosure and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the collateral to its then fair market value, less estimated selling costs, which may result in a loss. These non-performing loans and foreclosed properties also increase our risk profile and the amount of capital our regulators believe is appropriate to maintain in light of such risks. The resolution of non-performing assets requires significant time commitments from management and can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. If we experience increases in non-performing loans and non-performing assets, our net interest income will be negatively impacted and our loan administration costs could increase, each of which could have an adverse effect on our net income and related ratios, such as return on assets and equity.. At December 31, 2017 and 2016 our total classified assets were $50.3 million and $39.2 million, respectively. While we continue to accrue interest income on classified loans that are performing, classified loans and other classified assets may negatively impact profitability by requiring additional management attention and regular monitoring. Increased monitoring of these assets by management may impact our management’s ability to focus on opportunistic growth, potentially adversely impacting future profitability.. Our residential mortgage loans and home equity loans expose us to a risk of loss due to declining real estate values.. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, $170.4 million, or 14.8%, of our total loan portfolio, and $171.0 million, or 15.7%, of our total loan portfolio, respectively, consisted of owner-occupied one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, $21.4 million, or 1.9%, of our total loan portfolio and $21.4 million, or 2.0%, of our total loan portfolio, respectively, consisted of home equity loans and lines of credit. Declines in the housing market could result in declines in real estate values in our market area. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral.. 28. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations.. Changes in tax laws contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in December 2017, include a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for residential real estate. Included in this legislation was a reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. In addition, other changes included: (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (ii) the elimination of interest deductions for home equity loans, (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense and (iv) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.. The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. In addition, these recent changes may also have a disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with high residential home prices and high state and local taxes, such as Maryland. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Negative developments in the financial industry, the domestic and international credit markets, and the economy in general pose significant challenges for our industry and us and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Negative developments that began in the latter half of 2007 and that have continued since then in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in unprecedented volatility and disruption in the financial markets, a general economic downturn and a tepid economic recovery, both nationally and in our primary markets. As a result, commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances deteriorated at many institutions and have not fully recovered, and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. As a result, we may face the following risks:. • Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market may cause the credit quality of our loan portfolios to deteriorate;. • Market developments that affect consumer confidence may cause adverse changes in payment patterns by our customers, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities;. • The processes that we use to estimate our allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on judgments, such as forecasts of economic conditions, that may no longer be capable of accurate estimation;. • The value of our securities portfolio may decline; and. • We face increased regulation of our industry, and the costs of compliance with such regulation may increase.. These conditions or similar ones may continue to persist or worsen, causing us to experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock.. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings.. Our largest component of earnings is net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Changing interest rates impact customer actions and may limit the options available to the Company to maximize earnings or increase the costs to minimize risk. We do not have control over market interest rates and the Company’s focus to mitigate potential earnings risk centers on controlling the composition of our assets and liabilities.. 29. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is net interest income divided by average interest-earning assets. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to increase or decrease. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”— or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Our procedures for managing exposure to falling net interest income involve modeling possible scenarios of interest rate increases and decreases to interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, particularly adjustable or variable rate loans.. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. In recent years, various significant economic and monetary stimulus measures were implemented by the U.S. Congress and the Federal Reserve pursued a highly accommodative monetary policy aimed at keeping interest rates at historically low levels although the Federal Reserve has begun to modify certain aspects of this policy by gradually increasing short-term interest rates and reducing its balance sheet. U.S. economic activity has significantly improved, but there can be no assurance that this progress will continue or will not reverse.. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted.. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to timely and effectively execute our strategic plan or manage the growth called for in our strategic plan. We have grown through our January 1, 2018 acquisition of County First Bank and may continue to grow through acquisitions. To be successful as a larger institution, we must successfully integrate the operations and retain the customers of acquired institutions, attract and retain the management required to successfully manage larger operations, and control costs.. Among other things, our strategic plan currently calls for reducing the amount of our non-performing assets, growing assets through commercial lending and generating transaction deposit accounts to reduce our funding costs and improve our net interest margin. Our ability to increase profitability in accordance with this plan will depend on a variety of factors including the identification of desirable business opportunities, competitive responses from financial institutions in our market area and our ability to manage liquidity and funding sources. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our strategic plan, opportunities may not be available and that the strategic plan may not be successful or effectively managed.. In implementing our strategic plan, we may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current markets through opportunistic acquisitions of whole banks or branch locations. On January 1, 2018, we acquired County First Bank. Future results of operations will be impacted by our ability to successfully integrate the operations of County First Bank and any other acquired institutions and retain the customers of those institutions. If we are unable to successfully manage the integration of the separate cultures, customer bases and operating systems of the acquired institutions, and any other institutions that may be acquired in the future, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. As a result of the County First Bank acquisition and to the extent that we undertake additional acquisitions, we are likely to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations during the integration period, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. In addition, if we undertake substantial growth, we may need to increase non-interest expenses through additional personnel, occupancy expense and data processing costs, among others. In order to successfully manage growth, we may need to adopt and effectively implement policies, procedures and controls to maintain credit quality, control costs and oversee operations. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in this strategy. Other effects of engaging in such growth strategies may include potential diversion of our management’s time and attention and general disruption to our business. We may not be able to adequately, timely and profitably achieve the intended benefits or our growth strategies or manage anticipated growth.. 30. Finally, substantial growth may stress regulatory capital levels, and may require us to raise additional capital. No assurance can be given that we will be able to raise any required capital, or that it will be able to raise capital on terms that are beneficial to stockholders.. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be adversely affected.. Our asset valuation may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We must use estimates, assumptions, and judgments when financial assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flows and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors, assumptions, or estimates in any of these areas could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations.. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value some of our assets if trading becomes less frequent and market data becomes less observable. There may be asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the financial environment. In such cases, asset valuation may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation.. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth.. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Our competition for loans and deposits includes banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and non-banking financial institutions. We compete with regional and national financial institutions that have a substantial presence in our market area, many of which have greater liquidity, higher lending limits, greater access to capital, more established market recognition and more resources and collective experience than us. Furthermore, tax-exempt credit unions operate in our market area and aggressively price their products and services to a large portion of the market. This competition may make it more difficult for us to originate new loans and may force us to offer higher deposit rates than we currently offer. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in lower interest rates earned on our loans and higher interest rates paid on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area.. If the value of real estate in our market area were to decline, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Declines in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters.. 31. We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area, which is significantly dependent on federal government and military employment and programs.. Our marketplace is primarily in the counties of Charles, Calvert, St. Mary’s and Anne Arundel, Maryland and neighboring communities, and the Fredericksburg area of Virginia. Many, if not most, of our customers live and/or work in those counties or in the greater Washington, DC metropolitan area. Because our services are concentrated in this market, we are affected by the general economic conditions in the greater Washington, DC area. Changes in the economy may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio and loan and deposit pricing. A significant decline in economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could decrease the demand for banking products and services generally and/or impair the ability of existing borrowers to repay their loans, which could negatively affect our financial condition and performance.. A significant portion of the population in our market area is affiliated with or employed by the federal government or at military facilities located in the area which contribute to the local economy. As a result, a reduction in federal government or military employment or programs could have a negative impact on local economic conditions and real estate collateral values, and could also negatively affect the Company’s profitability.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination as noted in the “Supervision and Regulation” section of this report. The regulation and supervision by the Maryland Commissioner, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC are not intended to protect the interests of investors in The Community Financial Corporation common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Laws and regulations now affecting us may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations by bank regulatory authorities is also subject to change. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations.. Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes and future legislation could increase our cost of doing business or harm our competitive position.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has created a significant shift in the way financial institutions operate. The key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are:. • Changes to regulatory capital requirements;. • Creation of new government regulatory agencies (such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which oversees systemic risk, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which develops and enforces rules for bank and non-bank providers of consumer financial products);. • Potential limitations on federal preemption;. • Changes to deposit insurance assessments;. • Regulation of debit interchange fees we earn;. • Changes in retail banking regulations, including potential limitations on certain fees we may charge; and. • Changes in regulation of consumer mortgage loan origination and risk retention.. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts the ability of banks to engage in certain proprietary trading or to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains provisions designed to limit the ability of insured depository institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates to conduct certain swaps and derivatives activities and to take certain principal positions in financial instruments.. 32. Certain changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Basel III capital rules generally require insured depository institutions and their holding companies to hold more capital. The impact of the new rules on our financial condition and operations is uncertain but could be materially adverse.. New capital rules adopted by the Federal Reserve substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The rule includes new risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective January 1, 2015, and revise the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The rules apply to the Company as well as to the Bank. Beginning in the first quarter of 2015, our minimum capital requirements were (i) a common Tier 1 equity ratio of 4.5%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital (common Tier 1 capital plus Additional Tier 1 capital) of 6% (up from 4%) and (iii) a total capital ratio of 8%. Our leverage ratio requirement will remain at the 4% level. Finally, the new capital rules limit capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a “capital conservation buffer” consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The capital conservation buffer requirement was phased in beginning January 1, 2016, at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets, increasing each year until fully implemented at 2.5% on January 1, 2019.. We are periodically subject to examination and scrutiny by a number of banking agencies and, depending upon the findings and determinations of these agencies, we may be required to make adjustments to our business that could adversely affect us.. Federal and state banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency was to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, asset concentration, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, sensitivity to market risk or other aspects of any of our operations has become unsatisfactory, or that we or our management is in violation of any law or regulation, it could take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to change the asset composition of our portfolio or balance sheet, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance. If we become subject to such regulatory actions, our business, results of operations and reputation may be negatively impacted.. The Company is a bank holding company and its sources of funds necessary to meet its obligations are limited.. The Company is a bank holding company, and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to our common and preferred stockholders, pay our obligations and meet our debt service requirements is derived primarily from our existing cash flow sources, dividends received from the Bank, or a combination thereof. Future dividend payments by the Bank to us will require generation of future earnings by the Bank and are subject to certain regulatory guidelines. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not have the resources or cash flow to pay or meet all of our obligations.. Our internal control systems are inherently limited.. Our systems of internal controls, disclosure controls and corporate governance policies and procedures are inherently limited. The inherent limitations of our system of internal controls include the use of judgment in decision-making that can be faulty; breakdowns can occur because of human error or mistakes; and controls can be circumvented by individual acts or by collusion of two or more people. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and any design may not succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of the inherent limitation of a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, any plans of remediation for any identified limitations may be ineffective in improving our internal controls.. 33. The market price and liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if the economy were to weaken or the capital markets were to experience volatility.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to changes in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Among other factors, these risks may be affected by:. •Operating results that vary from the expectations of our management or of securities analysts and investors;. •Developments in our business or in the financial services sector generally;. •Regulatory or legislative changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations;. •Operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us;. •Changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or rating agencies;. •Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions, dispositions, financings, and other material events by us or our competitors;. •Changes or volatility in global financial markets and economies, general market conditions, interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit, or asset valuations; and. •Significant fluctuations in the capital markets.. Economic or market turmoil could occur in the near or long term, which could negatively affect our business, our financial condition, and our results of operations, as well as volatility in the price and trading volume of our common stock.. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Maryland law, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Maryland corporate law could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Maryland laws, including one that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as core data processing systems, internet connections, network access and fund distribution. While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully, we cannot control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those which result from their failure to provide services for any reason or their poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third-party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. 34. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our business is dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. In addition, we provide our customers with the ability to bank remotely, including over the Internet and the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking. Despite instituted safeguards and monitoring, our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, physical and cyber security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could materially and adversely affect us.. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, environmental, legal and compliance risks, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer, telecommunications systems, cyber security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions of other entities, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by the Bank can also result in negative public opinion about our other businesses.. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be misappropriated, mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, erroneously providing such information to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or the interception or inappropriate acquisition of such information by third parties.. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in our diminished ability to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially.. 35. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “PATRIOT Act”) and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. Federal and state bank regulators also have begun to focus on compliance with Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering regulations. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners; and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. We, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. Information security risks for financial institutions have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. Despite our security measures and monitoring, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such unauthorized access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in significant costs to us, which may include fines and penalties, potential liabilities from governmental or third party investigations, proceedings or litigation, legal, forensic and consulting fees and expenses, costs and diversion of management attention required for investigation and remediation actions, and the negative impact on our reputation and loss of confidence of our customers and others, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, revenues, financial condition and competitive position. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses.. If our information technology is unable to keep pace with industry developments, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations.. 36. Exiting or entering new lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risk.. From time to time, we may exit an existing line of business or implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts. When exiting a line of business or product we may have difficulty replacing the revenue stream and may have to take certain actions to make up for the line of business or product. For example, we recently discontinued the origination of residential mortgage loans and instead now purchase residential mortgage loans for our loan portfolio from other sources. If those sources are not available or the cost for such purchases increases our results of operations may be adversely affected. We also may face increased credit risk with respect to purchased loans relative to the credit risks we faced in connection with the origination of loans. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business and/or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and/or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. The amount of interest payable on our 6.25% Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes due 2025 will vary after February 15, 2020.. The interest rate on our 6.25% Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes due 2025 will vary after February 15, 2020. From and including the issue date of such notes but excluding February 15, 2020, the notes will bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.25% per year. From and including February 15, 2020, to but excluding the maturity date, the notes will bear interest at an annual floating rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 479 basis points for any interest period. If interest rates rise, the cost of our subordinated notes may increase, negatively affecting our net income.. 37"
