[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are the most significant risk factors that could impact our business, financial results and results of operations. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. A return of recessionary economic conditions in our primary market of California, could seriously impair the value of our loan portfolio and adversely affect our results of operations.. All our real estate loans are secured by properties located in California. Decreases in California real estate values can adversely affect the value of properties collateralizing our loans and increase the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans.. As of June 30, 2014, 92.1% or $662.7 million of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate properties located in California. Although the impact on the Bank of the negative credit cycle has stabilized and credit quality indicators have improved, weak economic conditions and ongoing strains in the financial and housing markets in California have and may continue to reduce our rate of growth, affect our customers' ability to repay loans and adversely impact our financial condition and earnings.  In the event that we are required to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan or pursue other remedies in order to protect our investment, there can be no assurance that we will recover funds in an amount equal to any remaining loan balance as a result of prevailing general economic or local conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying the loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans. Consequently, we would sustain significant loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which could have an adverse impact on earnings. See \"Item 1-Business- Market Area- Asset Quality.\". Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our level of multi-family residential real estate and commercial real estate loans which could increase our level of provision for loan losses.. Our outstanding multi-family residential real estate and commercial real estate loans accounted for 51.8%, or $373.1 million, of our total loan portfolio as of June 30, 2014. Generally, management considers these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to permanent first mortgage loans on one-to-four family, owner occupied residential properties. Multi-family residential real estate and commercial real estate loans are underwritten on the income producing potential of the property or the successful operation of the borrowers' or tenants' businesses, financial strength of the borrower and any guarantors. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service.. Management plans to continue focusing its efforts to diversify the loan portfolio to ensure profitable growth opportunities in all major loan categories including higher yielding products such as multi-family residential loans and commercial real estate loans. Many of our commercial and multi-family residential real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. These balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the balloon payment. Further, commercial and multi-family residential real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial and multi-family residential real estate loans or the valuation of underlying collateral, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. As a result of the above factors, management may determine it necessary to increase the level of provision for loan losses. Increased provisions for loan losses could negatively affect our results of operations.. 35. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to its amount of nonconforming loans.. A significant portion of our one-to-four family residential loans are nonconforming to secondary market requirements, and are therefore, not saleable to Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae. At June 30, 2014, about 17.0% of our one-to-four family residential loan portfolio consisted of loans that were considered nonconforming due to loan size. Included in non-accrual loans at June 30, 2014 were four loans totaling $1.7 million that were nonconforming due to each loan's principal amount.. As of June 30, 2014, we held in portfolio one-to-four family interest-only mortgage loans totaling $11.6 million or 1.6% of gross loans as compared to $15.4 million or 2.2% of gross loans at June 30, 2013. The interest rates on these loans are generally initially fixed for three, five, seven or ten year terms and then adjust in accordance with the terms of the loan to require payment of both principal and interest in order to amortize the loan for the remainder of the term. At June 30, 2014, all of these loans convert to fully-amortizing status within the next five years. From February 2004 until February 2007, we originated or purchased interest-only loans which were underwritten at the fully indexed and fully amortized rate. During this period, we also purchased loans made to borrowers who provided limited or no documentation of income, known as stated income loans. A stated income loan is a loan where the borrower's income source is not subject to verification through the application process, but the reasonableness of the stated income is verified through review of other sources, such as compensation surveys. At June 30, 2014, we had $24.9 million in stated income loans, or 3.5% of gross loans, as compared to $35.8 million, or 5.2% of gross loans at June 30, 2013. Included in our stated income loans at June 30, 2014 were $3.2 million in interest-only loans.  Included in non-accrual loans at June 30, 2014 and 2013 was $2.8 million and $5.2 million in one-to-four family residential loans that are interest-only or stated income loans. We have not purchased any interest-only or stated income one- to-four family loans since 2007.. Nonconforming one-to-four family residential loans are generally considered to have an increased risk of delinquency and foreclosure than conforming loans and we cannot sell such loans to the government sponsored enterprises which may result in higher levels of provision for loan losses. The percentage of nonconforming loans that are either performing or less than 60 days delinquent at June 30, 2014 was 99.8% as compared to 99.4% at June 30, 2013. There can be no assurance that our nonconforming loan portfolio would not be adversely affected should regional and national economic conditions deteriorate further. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will recover funds in an amount equal to any remaining loan balance. Consequently, we could sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan losses.. High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio expose us to greater risk of loss.. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses.. If the allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual losses, our results of operations may be negatively affected.. In the event that loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral security for the payments of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, we may experience significant loan losses. Such credit risk is inherent in the lending business, and failure to adequately assess such credit risk could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of the loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, management reviews the loan portfolio and historical loss and delinquency experience, as well as overall economic conditions and peer data. If management's assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. The allowance for loan losses is also periodically reviewed by our regulators, who may disagree with the allowance and require us to increase such amount. Additions to the allowance for loans losses would be made through increased provisions for loan losses and could negatively affect our results of operations. At June 30, 2014, our allowance for loan losses was $4.6 million, or 0.6% of total loans and 59.9% of non-performing loans as compared to $5.6 million, or 0.8% of total loans and 35.5% of non-performing loans at June 30, 2013.. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings may be reduced.. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must establish an allowance for loan losses that reserves for losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are both probable and reasonably estimable through current period provisions for loan losses. From time to time, we also write down the value of properties in our real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance. 36. related to our real estate owned assets. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from our overall supervision of operations and other income-producing activities. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance for loan losses accordingly.. If property taken into real estate owned is not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced.. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals when a loan has been foreclosed and the property is transferred to real estate owned, and at certain other times during the asset's holding period. Our net book value in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the lower of adjusted cost basis or updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's net book value over its fair value when the loan is transferred to real estate owned. If our valuation determination is inaccurate, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our net book value in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our real estate owned and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by such regulators, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our litigation related costs might increase.. We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. There can be no assurance that our loan workout and other activities will not result in increased litigation expense that may have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. We depend on our management team to implement our business strategy and execute successful operations and we could be harmed by the loss of their services.. We are dependent upon the services of our senior management team. Our strategy and operations are directed by the senior management team. The only senior executive with an employment agreement is our President and Chief Executive Officer (\"CEO\").  Any loss of the services of the President and CEO or other members of the management team could impact our ability to implement our business strategy, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to compete in our markets.. Strong competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and also may increase our cost of funds.. We operate in a very competitive market for the attraction of deposits, the primary source of our funding. Historically, our most direct competition for deposits has come from credit unions, community banks, large commercial banks and thrift institutions within our primary market areas. In recent years competition has also come from institutions that largely deliver their services over the internet. Such competitors have the competitive advantage of lower infrastructure costs. Particularly in times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced significant competition for investors' funds from short-term money market securities and other corporate and government securities. During periods of regularly increasing interest rates, competition for interest bearing deposits increases as customers, particularly certificate of deposit customers, tend to move their accounts between competing businesses to obtain the highest rates in the market. As a result, Simplicity Bank may incur a higher cost of funds in an effort to attract and retain customer deposits. We strive to grow our lower cost core deposits, such as non-interest bearing checking accounts, in order to reduce our cost of funds.. Strong competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to originate loans and also decrease our yield on loans.. We are located in a competitive market that affects our ability to obtain loans through origination as well as originating them at rates that provide an attractive yield. Competition for loans comes principally from mortgage bankers, commercial banks, other thrift institutions and credit unions. Internet based lenders have also become a greater competitive factor in recent years. Such competition for the origination of loans may limit future growth and earnings prospects.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as. 37. deposits and borrowings. Because our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would result in a decrease in net interest income.. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Also, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Additionally, increases in interest rates may extend the life of fixed-rate assets, which would restrict our ability to reinvest in higher yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the additional interest they could receive on an alternative investment.. United States financial markets and economic conditions, particularly in our geographic market area, may adversely affect our business and financial results.. Since 2007, negative developments in the housing market, including decreased home prices and increased delinquencies and foreclosures by comparison with pre-recession levels, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and have resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions, including the Bank. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans declined and may continue to decline. National economic data, particularly from the labor market, has shown signs of improvements. The national unemployment rate declined from 7.5% in June 2013 to 6.1% in June 2014.   There was a general downward shift in the Federal Open Market Committee's expectation for the unemployment rate over the next few years as evidenced by their forecasts of 5.6% to 5.9% in 2015 and 5.2% to 5.6% in 2016.  Economic activity continued to expand at a moderate pace. Housing prices have also moved higher over the past year and consumer sentiment continues to improve.  The recovery for California still lags behind the rest of the nation as evidenced by the higher unemployment rate of 7.4% as of June 2014. While the impact on the negative credit cycle of many financial institutions is beginning to stabilize, however, there are risks associated with the sustainability of the improving market dynamics as a result of lingering effects of tax increases that could restrain consumption and rising interest rates that might slow the economy. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the related sales price coupled with the weak economic environment and the associated high unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital, liquidity, financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater affect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. Moreover, any declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank's allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Financial reform legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Act changed the bank regulatory framework, created an independent consumer protection bureau that assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies and established more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The legislation has also resulted in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. Any further changes in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects.. 38. Financial reform legislation has, among other things, eliminated the Office of Thrift Supervision, tightened capital standards and created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and will result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.. Among other things, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act:. • the OCC became the primary federal regulator for federal savings banks such as Simplicity Bank (replacing the Office of Thrift Supervision), and the Federal Reserve Board now supervises and regulates all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, including Simplicity Bancorp, Inc.;. • the federal prohibition on paying interest on demand deposits has been eliminated, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. This change has increased our interest expense;. • the Federal Reserve Board has set minimum capital levels for depository institution holding companies that are as stringent as those required for their insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital are required to be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. The new rule for savings and loan holding companies has set January 1, 2015 as the date the new capital requirements will begin to apply;. • the federal banking regulators are required to implement new leverage and capital requirements that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives;. • a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has been established, which has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, like Simplicity Bank, will be examined by their applicable bank regulators; and. • federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings banks have been weakened, and state attorneys general have the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws.. In addition to the risks noted above, our operating and compliance costs, and possibly our interest expense, may increase as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing rules and regulations. The need to comply with additional rules and regulations, as well as state laws and regulations to which we were not previously subject, will also divert management's time from managing our operations. Higher capital levels would reduce our ability to grow and increase our interest-earning assets which would adversely affect our return on stockholders' equity.. We will become subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may adversely impact our return on equity, require us to raise additional capital, or constrain us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares.. In July 2013, the OCC and the Federal Reserve Board approved a new rule that will substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Simplicity Bank and Simplicity Bancorp, Inc. The final rule implements the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. The final rule includes new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which will be effective for Simplicity Bank and Simplicity Bancorp, Inc. on January 1, 2015, and revised the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios. The new minimum capital requirements will be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also establishes a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer. 39. requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Simplicity Bank and Simplicity Bancorp, Inc. could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions such as the inability to pay dividends or repurchase shares if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income.. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor.. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities.. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us.. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial condition and operating results.. Our accounting policies are essential to understanding our financial results and condition. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities Exchange Commission change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our results of operations and financial condition. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts.. 40. The need to account for certain assets and liabilities at estimated fair value may adversely affect our results of operations.. We report certain assets, including securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize observable market inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk.. Our stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume.. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. However, the average daily trading volume in Simplicity Bancorp, Inc.'s common stock has been relatively small, averaging less than 25,000 shares per day during 2014. As a result, trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of the common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price.. Income from secondary mortgage market operations is volatile, and we may incur losses with respect to our secondary mortgage market operations that could negatively affect our earnings.. A key component of our strategy is to increase the extent to which we sell in the secondary market the longer term, conforming fixed-rate residential mortgage loans that we originate, earning non-interest income in the form of gains on sale.  When interest rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tend to fall and may reduce the number of loans we can originate for sale.  Weak or deteriorating economic conditions also tend to reduce loan demand.  Although we sell, and intend to continue selling, most loans in the secondary market with limited or no recourse, we are required, and will continue to be required, to give customary representations and warranties to the buyers relating to compliance with applicable law.  If we breach those representations and warranties, the buyers will be able to require us to repurchase the loans and we may incur a loss on the repurchase.. New regulations could restrict our ability to originate loans.. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has issued a rule that became effective in January 2014, requiring creditors to assess a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage loan. Loans that meet this \"qualified mortgage\" definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard and enjoy special protection.  Under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's rule, a \"qualified mortgage\" loan must not contain certain specified features, including:. • excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less 'bona fide discount points\" for prime loan);. •interest-only payments;. •negative-amortization; and. •terms longer than 30 years.. Also, to qualify as a \"qualified mortgage,\" a borrower's total monthly debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders  must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive/and or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability."
