[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Making or continuing an investment in securities, including the Company’s Common Stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company.. 16. Risk Factors Associated With Our Business. General economic conditions in the areas where our operations or loans are concentrated may adversely affect our customers’ ability to meet their obligations.. A sudden or severe downturn in the economy in the geographic markets we serve in the states of Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama or Florida may affect the ability of our customers to meet loan payment obligations on a timely basis. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate, and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing such loans. Any deterioration in the economic conditions of these market areas could negatively impact the financial results of the Company’s banking operations, earnings, and profitability.. Additionally, adverse economic changes may cause customers to withdraw deposit balances, thereby causing a strain on our liquidity. We have historically had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, but if there is an increase in volatility in the credit and liquidity markets there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.. We may be vulnerable to certain sectors of the economy, including real estate.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. If the economy deteriorates and real estate values depress beyond a certain point, as happened during the last recession, the collateral value of the portfolio and the revenue stream from those loans could come under stress and additional loan loss accruals could be required which would negatively impact our earnings. Our ability to dispose of foreclosed real estate at prices above the respective carrying values could also be impacted, which could cause our results of operations to be adversely affected.. Unpredictable market conditions may adversely affect the industry in which we operate.. The capital and credit markets are subject to volatility and disruption. Dramatic declines in the housing market in years past caused home prices to fall and increased foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment. These events, if they were to happen again, could negatively impact the credit performance of mortgage loans and result in significant write-downs of asset values, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. Market turmoil and tightening of credit could lead to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence and widespread reduction of business activity generally. A worsening of these conditions would have an adverse effect on us and others in the financial institution industry generally, particularly in our real estate markets, as lower home prices and increased foreclosures would result in higher charge-offs and delinquencies.. The state of the economy and various economic factors, including inflation, recession, unemployment, interest rates and the level of U.S. debt, as well as governmental action and uncertainty resulting from U.S. and global political trends, may directly and indirectly, have a destabilizing effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An unfavorable or uncertain national or regional political or economic environment could drive losses beyond those which are provided for in our allowance for loan losses and could negatively impact our results of operations. We must maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses.. The First, as lender, is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio relates principally to the creditworthiness of the borrower corporations and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of the borrower businesses and individuals within our local markets.. 17. The First makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio based on a number of factors. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense each quarter, that is consistent with management’s assessment of the collectability of the loan portfolio in light of the amount of loans committed and outstanding and current economic conditions and market trends. When specific loan losses are identified, the amount of the expected loss is removed, or charged-off, from the allowance. The First believes that its current allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. We may have to increase the allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of the loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or in the amount of loan charge-offs required by regulatory agencies or for other factors could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to risks related to changes in market interest rates.. Our assets and liabilities are primarily monetary in nature, and as a result we are subject to significant risks resulting from changes in interest rates. Our profitability is largely dependent upon net interest income. Unexpected movement in interest rates markedly changing the slope of the current yield curve could cause net interest margins to decrease, subsequently decreasing net interest income. In addition, such changes could adversely affect the valuation of our assets and liabilities.. At present the Company’s one-year interest rate sensitivity position is asset sensitive. As with most financial institutions, the Company’s results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and the Company’s ability to manage this risk. The difference between interest rates charged on interest-earning assets and interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in relationships between interest rate indices, and/or changes in the relationships between long-term and short-term market interest rates. A change in this difference might result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in the Company’s interest rate spread.. Certain changes in interest rates, inflation, or the financial markets could affect demand for our products and our ability to deliver products efficiently.. Loan originations, and therefore loan revenues, could be adversely impacted by rising interest rates. Increases in market interest rates can have negative impacts on our business, including reducing our customers' desire to borrow money from us or adversely affecting their ability to repay their outstanding loans by increasing their debt service obligations through the periodic reset of adjustable interest rate loans. If our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans is impaired by increasing interest payment obligations, our level of non-performing assets would increase, producing an adverse effect on operating results. Asset values, especially commercial real estate as collateral, securities or other fixed rate earning assets, can decline significantly with relatively minor changes in interest rates. Conversely, falling rates could increase prepayments within our loan and securities portfolio lowering interest earnings from those assets. An unanticipated increase in inflation could cause operating costs related to salaries and benefits, technology, and supplies to increase at a faster pace than revenues.. The fair market value of the securities portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuates depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations.. Evaluation of investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment involves subjective determinations and could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition.. The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties, and is intended to determine whether declines in the fair value of investments should be recognized in current period earnings. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuers’ financial condition or future recovery prospects, the effects of changes in interest rates or credit spreads and the expected recovery period. Estimating future cash flows involves incorporating information received from third-party sources and making internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future performance of the underlying collateral and assessing the probability that an adverse change in future cash flows has occurred. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments is based upon the Company’s quarterly evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.. 18. Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses its reasonable judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Impairments to the carrying value of our investment securities may need to be taken in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect profitability.. The results of operations of the Company are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, which we refer to as the Federal Reserve Board. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve Board include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and monetary policy, we cannot predict the impact of future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or the Company’s business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the United States government and other governments in responding to developing situations or implementing new fiscal or trade policies may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other unanticipated economic effects. Such actions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability.. We are subject to regulation by various Federal and State entities.. The Company and The First are subject to extensive regulation by various regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the OCC, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the SEC. See Supervision and Regulation above for more information. New regulations issued by these agencies may adversely affect our ability to carry on our business activities. The Company is subject to various Federal and state laws and certain changes in these laws and regulations may adversely affect operations.. The Company and The First are also subject to the accounting rules and regulations of the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect the reported financial statements or results of operations of the Company and may also require extraordinary efforts or additional costs to implement. Any of these laws or regulations may be modified or changed from time to time, and we cannot be assured that such modifications or changes will not adversely affect the Company.. The full impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") on us and our customers is unknown at present, creating uncertainty and risk related to our customers' future demand for credit and our future results.. Increased economic activity expected to result from the decrease in tax rates on businesses generally could spur additional economic activity that would encourage additional borrowing. At the same time, some customers may elect to use their additional cash flow from lower taxes to fund their existing levels of activity, decreasing borrowing needs. The elimination of the federal income tax deductibility of business interest expense for a significant number of our customers effectively increases the cost of borrowing and makes equity or hybrid funding relatively more attractive. This could have a long-term negative impact on business customer borrowing. We anticipate a significant increase in our after-tax net income available to stockholders in 2018 and future years as a result of the decrease in our effective tax rate. Some or all of this benefit could be lost to the extent that the banks and financial services companies we compete with elect to lower interest rates and fees and we are forced to respond in order to remain competitive. There is no assurance that presently anticipated benefits of the Tax Act for the Company will be realized.. 19. We may be required to pay additional insurance premiums to the FDIC, which could negatively impact earnings.. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the limit on FDIC coverage has been permanently increased to $250,000, causing the premiums assessed to The First by the FDIC to increase. Depending upon any future losses that the FDIC insurance fund may suffer, there can be no assurance that there will not be additional premium increases in order to replenish the fund. The FDIC may need to set a higher base rate schedule or impose special assessments due to future financial institution failures and updated failure and loss projections. Potentially higher FDIC assessment rates than those currently projected could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. We are subject to industry competition which may have an adverse impact upon our success.. The profitability of the Company depends on its ability to compete successfully with other financial services companies. We operate in a highly competitive financial services environment. Certain competitors are larger and may have more resources than we do. We face competition in our regional market areas from other commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of the nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern the Company or The First and may have greater flexibility in competing for business.. Many of these competitors also have broader geographic markets and substantially greater resources and lending limits than The First and offer certain services such as trust banking that The First does not currently provide. In addition, many of these competitors have numerous branch offices located throughout the extended market areas of The First that may provide these competitors with an advantage in geographic convenience that The First does not have at present. Currently there are numerous other commercial banks, savings institutions, and credit unions operating in The First's primary service area.. We also compete with numerous financial and quasi-financial institutions for deposits and loans, including providers of financial services over the internet.  Recent technology advances and other changes have allowed parties to effectuate financial transactions that previously required the involvement of banks.  For example, consumers can maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits.  Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks.  The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits.  The loss of these revenue streams and access to lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business.  Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, deposit, loan and other systems.  While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that we can prevent any such failures, interruptions, cyber security breaches or other security breaches or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed.  The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could affect our ability to operate.. Our market areas are susceptible to natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornados. Natural disasters can disrupt operations, result in damage to properties that may be serving as collateral for our loan assets and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes, tornados or other natural disasters will affect operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties serving as collateral for our loans and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. In addition, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could cause disruption in our operations. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. We must maintain effective internal control over financial reporting.. Management regularly monitors, reviews and updates our disclosure controls and procedures, including our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, assurances that the controls will be effective. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results, preventing or detecting fraud, or providing timely and reliable financial information pursuant to our reporting obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our business is susceptible to fraud.. Our business exposes us to fraud risk from our loan and deposit customers, the parties they do business with, as well as from our employees, contractors and vendors. We rely on financial and other data from new and existing customers which could turn out to be fraudulent when accepting such customers, executing their financial transactions and making and purchasing loans and other financial assets. In times of increased economic stress we are at increased risk of fraud losses. We believe we have underwriting and operational controls in place to prevent or detect such fraud, but we cannot provide assurance that these controls will be effective in detecting fraud or that we will not experience fraud losses or incur costs or other damage related to such fraud, at levels that adversely affect our financial results or reputation. Our lending customers may also experience fraud in their businesses which could adversely affect their ability to repay their loans or make use of our services. Our exposure and the exposure of our customers to fraud may increase our financial risk and reputation risk as it may result in unexpected loan losses that exceed those that have been provided for in our allowance for loan losses.. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled personnel.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel.  Competition for the best personnel in most activities we engage in can be intense, and we may not be able to hire personnel or to retain them.  The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, relationships in the communities we serve, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.  Although we have employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, there is no guarantee that these officers and other key personnel will remain employed with the Company.. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions or the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions.. Merger-Related Risks. We may engage in acquisitions of other businesses from time to time, which may adversely impact our results.. From time to time, we may engage in acquisitions of other businesses. Difficulty in integrating an acquired business or company may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, or other anticipated benefits from any acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of the Company’s business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. The acquired companies may also have legal contingencies, beyond those that we are aware of, that could result in unexpected costs. The Company may need to make additional investment in equipment and personnel to manage higher asset levels and loan balances as a result of any significant acquisition, which may adversely impact earnings.. 21. We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings and other financial benefits of the First Community Bank Acquisition and Sunshine Community Bank acquisition on the anticipated schedule, if at all... The First, First Community Bank, and Sunshine Community Bank have historically operated independently. The success of the mergers of First Community Bank and Sunshine Community Bank into The First will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine the businesses of The First, First Community Bank, and Sunshine Community Bank. To realize these anticipated benefits, The First expects to integrate First Community Bank’s and Sunshine Community Bank’s businesses with its own businesses. We may face significant challenges in integrating both First Community Bank’s and Sunshine Community Bank’s operations into our operations in a timely and efficient manner and in retaining key personnel from these two banks. Achieving the anticipated cost savings and financial benefits of the mergers will depend, in part, on whether we can successfully integrate these businesses. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors, and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. In addition, the integration of certain operations following the mergers will require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company. Any inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated cost savings and financial benefits of the mergers, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company.. In addition, Sunshine’s shareholders must approve the transaction before the acquisition of Sunshine Community Bank can be completed, and such shareholder approval may not be received. Failure to complete the acquisition could have a negative impact on our reputation and may affect the market price of our common stock.. We will incur significant transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the acquisition of Southwest and First Community Bank and the pending acquisition of Sunshine and Sunshine Community Bank.. We have incurred and expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with the acquisition of Southwest and First Community Bank and the pending acquisition of Sunshine and Sunshine Community Bank. These costs and expenses include fees paid to financial, legal and accounting advisors, severance, retention bonus and other potential employment-related costs, filing fees, printing expenses and other related charges. Some of these costs are payable by us regardless of whether the acquisition is completed. There are also a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated in connection with the merger and the integration of these companies’ businesses. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred in connection with the acquisitions, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration and implementation expenses.. There may also be additional unanticipated significant costs in connection with the acquisitions that we may not recoup. These costs and expenses could reduce the realization of efficiencies, strategic benefits and additional income we expect to achieve from the acquisition. Although we expect that these benefits will offset the transaction expenses and implementation costs over time, the net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all.. 22. With the completion of the acquisitions of First Community Bank and Sunshine Community Bank, the market price of our common stock may be affected by factors different from those historically affecting our independent operations through The First.. The historic businesses of each of The First, First Community Bank, and Sunshine Community Bank differ in important respects, and accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of the combined company’s shares of common stock may be affected by factors different from those historically affecting the independent results of operations of The First, First Community Bank, and Sunshine Community Bank.. Risks Relating to Our Securities. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell shares of common stock at a time or price they find attractive.. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to those described in “Special Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” these factors include, among others:. ·actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, financial condition or asset quality;. ·changes in financial estimates or the publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to us or other financial institutions;. ·failure to declare dividends on our common stock from time to time;. ·failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates;. ·failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;. ·strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, dispositions or financings;. ·fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors or other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. ·future sales of our common stock or other securities;. ·proposed or final regulatory changes or developments;. ·anticipated or pending regulatory investigations, proceedings, or litigation that may involve or affect us;. ·reports in the press or investment community generally relating to our reputation or the financial services industry;. ·domestic and international economic and political factors unrelated to our performance;. ·general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;. 23. ·adverse weather conditions, including floods, tornadoes and hurricanes; and. ·geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our stock price, notwithstanding our operating results. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate and there can be no assurances about the levels of the market prices for our common stock.. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.. We may need to rely on the financial markets to provide needed capital.. Our common stock is listed and traded on the Nasdaq stock market. Although we anticipate that our capital resources will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our capital requirements, at times we may depend on the liquidity of the capital markets to raise additional capital. Our historical ability to raise capital through the sale of capital stock and debt securities may be affected by economic and market conditions or regulatory changes that are beyond our control. Adverse changes in our operating performance or financial condition could make raising additional capital difficult or more expensive or limit our access to customary sources of funding. If the market should fail to operate, or if conditions in the capital markets are adverse, our efforts to raise capital could require the issuance of securities at times and with maturities, conditions and rates that are disadvantageous, and which could have a dilutive impact on our current stockholders. Should these risks materialize, the ability to further expand our operations through organic or acquisitive growth may be limited.. Securities issued by the Company, including the Company’s common stock, are not FDIC insured.. Securities issued by the Company, including the Company’s common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC, the Deposit Insurance Fund, or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal.. Anti-takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value.. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our articles of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of the Company. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity, or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, including the Company’s shares. Banking agencies review the acquisition to determine if it will result in a change of control. The banking agencies have 60 days to act on the notice, and take into account several factors, including the resources of the acquiror and the antitrust effects of the acquisition. There also are Mississippi statutory provisions and provisions in our articles of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our articles of incorporation could result in the Company being less attractive to a potential acquiror.. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies.. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Market, the trading volume for our common stock is low relative to other larger financial services companies, and you are not assured liquidity with respect to transactions in our common stock. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall.. 24. You may not receive dividends on our common stock.. Although we have historically declared quarterly cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or cease to pay common stock dividends in the future. If we reduce or cease to pay common stock dividends, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. The principal source of funds from which we pay cash dividends are the dividends received from The First. Federal banking laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends and loans a bank may make to its parent company. Under certain conditions, dividends paid to us by The First are subject to approval by the OCC. A national bank may not pay dividends from its capital. All dividends must be paid out of undivided profits then on hand, after deducting expenses, including reserves for losses and bad debts. In addition, a national bank is prohibited from declaring a dividend on its shares of common stock until its surplus equals its stated capital, unless the bank has transferred to surplus no less than one-tenth of its net profits of the preceding two consecutive half-year periods (in the case of an annual dividend). The approval of the OCC is required if the total of all dividends declared by a national bank in any calendar year exceeds the total of its net profits for that year combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. In addition, under The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, the banks may not pay a dividend if, after paying the dividend, the bank would be undercapitalized.. If we fail to pay dividends, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be the sole opportunity for gains on an investment in our common stock. In addition, in the event The First becomes unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt or pay our other obligations or pay dividends on our common stock and preferred stock. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from The First could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of your investment in our common stock."
