[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are risks we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks, the information contained under the heading \"Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements\" and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report before deciding whether to invest in our securities.. Risks Related to Our Business. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from our provision of management services to a limited number of companies. The loss or failure, or decline in business or assets, of any of the Managed Equity REITs or Managed Operators could substantially reduce our revenues.. The fees we earn from providing management services to our Client Companies comprise substantially all our revenues. Our revenues depend in large part on the ability of our Client Companies to raise capital to invest in real estate assets or their other respective businesses and on the positive performance of the investments or businesses of our Client Companies. Our Client Companies' investments and businesses are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. See \"-Risks Related to the Businesses of our Client Companies.\" Therefore, our operating results and our ability to maintain and grow our revenues depends upon the ability of our Client Companies to maintain and grow their respective businesses. Reduced business activities by, or failure of, any of the Managed Equity REITs or certain of our Managed Operators or the termination of their management agreements with us would materially reduce our revenues and our profitability.. Our revenues may be highly variable.. RMR LLC's business management agreement with each Managed Equity REIT provides for a base business management fee which is based on the lower of the average historical costs of the Managed Equity REIT's assets under management or its average market capitalization, as calculated in accordance with the applicable business management agreement, and an incentive business management fee which is based on the Managed Equity REIT's relative outperformance of a specified REIT total shareholder return index. The management fees we earn under these agreements are highly variable. For example, the base. 16. Table of Contents. business management fee payable by a Managed Equity REIT may increase or decrease materially as the Managed Equity REIT acquires or disposes of real estate assets or its market capitalization increases or decreases. In addition, our earning incentive fees under these agreements is not assured; we only earn an incentive business management fee under our business management agreement with a Managed Equity REIT if it outperforms an identified REIT total shareholder return index during the measurement period and certain other conditions are satisfied, as measured at the end of the applicable measurement period. The shareholder returns realized by a Managed Equity REIT, its market capitalization and its ability to raise capital or make investments may be impacted by trends in the Managed Equity REIT's portfolio, the U.S. real estate industry generally, the Managed Equity REIT's industry specifically or other factors which are outside of our or its control. Further, the fees we earn under our property management agreements with the Managed Equity REITs are based on a percentage of the rents our Managed Equity REITs receive and a percentage of the costs of construction, in each case, at properties we manage for them. To the extent our Managed Equity REITs receive reduced rent or incur lower construction costs, our revenues may decline. Also, the fees under our management agreements with the Managed Operators are based on a percentage of revenues (in the case of TA, gross fuel margin and nonfuel revenues) earned by them or generated at the properties they manage. A material decline in those revenues may materially reduce our revenues.. There can also be no assurance that we will maintain the level of revenues we have earned in the past under our management agreements and advisory agreements with our Client Companies or that the amount of fees we receive will increase. It is possible that the revenues we earn will fluctuate significantly or materially decline. For example, in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2016 and 2017, incentive business management fees earned from the Managed Equity REITs comprised a significant portion, 27.2% and 22.6%, respectively, of our management and advisory services revenues, whereas we did not earn any incentive fees from the Managed Equity REITs during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015.  If we do not earn material incentive fees, our future revenues may be significantly less than our historical revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2016 and 2017, which may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Shares.. Rising market interest rates may significantly reduce our revenues.. Since the most recent U.S. economic recession, the U.S. Federal Reserve has taken actions which have resulted in low interest rates prevailing in the marketplace for a historically long period of time. Recently, there have been some modest signs of inflationary price movements. The U.S. Federal Reserve has begun to raise interest rates modestly and recently indicated that another increase in interest rates later this year is likely to be warranted if the medium term economic outlook remains broadly unchanged. Any increase or increases in market interest rates may materially and negatively affect us. One of the factors that investors typically consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell the common shares of our Managed REITs, and which they may consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell our Class A Common Shares, is the distribution rate with respect to such shares relative to prevailing market interest rates. If market interest rates go up, investors may expect a higher distribution rate before investing in our Class A Common Shares or in a Managed REIT, or may sell our Class A Common Shares or the Managed REITs' common shares and seek alternate investments with a higher distribution rate. Sales of our Class A Common Shares may cause the market value of such shares to decline. Sales of common shares of the Managed Equity REITs may cause a decline in the market prices of such shares which reduces the market capitalizations and total shareholder returns of the Managed Equity REITs, which, in turn, may materially reduce the fees we earn under our business management agreements with them. Moreover, an increase in interest rates could raise borrowing costs for our Client Companies, negatively impact their access to capital to fund future growth, reduce their earnings and total shareholder returns and cause borrowers from TRMT to default, which may materially reduce the fees we earn under our business management agreements with our Client Companies.. Our management and advisory agreements with our Client Companies are subject to termination, and any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our management and advisory agreements with our Client Companies may be terminated by a Client Company or by us in certain circumstances. Depending upon the circumstances of a termination, we may or may not be entitled to receive a termination fee. If any of our management or advisory agreements with a Client Company is terminated, we may be unable to replace the lost revenue. Even if we receive a termination fee upon the termination of a management agreement with a Client Company, we may be unable to invest the after tax proceeds of the termination fee we receive to replace the lost revenues. The termination of our management agreement or advisory agreement with any of our Client Companies could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The commercial real estate industry has been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions in the United States generally.. 17. Table of Contents. Our business and operations are significantly dependent on conditions in the commercial real estate industry, which in turn is impacted by general economic conditions in the United States. Commercial real estate markets in the United States were significantly negatively impacted during the recent recession. Although commercial real estate markets have improved, with valuations approaching, and in some cases exceeding, 2007 levels, new challenges have arisen, including uncertain U.S. Federal Reserve policy regarding the timing and amount of future increases in interest rates and increasing real estate development activities. Adverse conditions in the commercial real estate industry and declining real estate values could harm our business and financial condition by limiting our and our Client Companies' access to debt and equity capital  and our and their ability to grow our and their businesses. Adverse conditions may also give rise to an increase in defaults of TRMT's loans and other investments.  An economic slowdown or recession or declining real estate values could materially and adversely affect us and our Client Companies.. The asset management business is highly competitive.. Our business is highly competitive and our success will be determined by a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the following:. • other asset managers may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than our Client Companies and we do;. • our Client Companies may not perform as well as other companies, including companies managed by other asset managers;. • other asset managers and the companies that compete with our Client Companies may have access to more capital or access to capital at lower costs than our Client Companies and we do;. • other asset managers and the companies that compete with our Client Companies may have higher risk tolerance, different risk assessment or a lower return threshold, which could allow them to acquire a wider variety of assets and a broader range of investments and as a result we and our Client Companies may grow our business less and more slowly than those competitors;. • there are few barriers to entry into the asset management business, and new entrants will result in increased competition;. • other asset managers may have more scalable platforms and may operate more efficiently than we do;. • other asset managers may have better brand recognition than we have; and. • our competitors may from time to time recruit our employees away from us.. If we fail to compete effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted.. Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We and our clients are subject to the risk of litigation, derivative claims, securities class actions, regulatory and governmental investigations and other litigation including proceedings arising from investor dissatisfaction with the performance of our clients and our clients' relationships with us and amongst themselves. If any claims were brought against us and resulted in a finding of substantial legal liability, the finding could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously adversely impact our business. Allegations of improper conduct by private litigants or regulators, regardless of veracity, may harm our reputation, impact our relationship with our Client Companies and adversely impact the ability of our Client Companies and us to grow our respective businesses.. If we cannot retain and motivate our key personnel and recruit, retain and motivate new key personnel, our business, results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. 18. Table of Contents. Our continued success depends to a great extent on our ability to retain and motivate our Founders and other key personnel and strategically to recruit, retain and motivate new talented personnel. However, we may not be successful in these efforts as the market for qualified employees in the asset management industry is extremely competitive. Historically we have not had employment agreements with our key employees and we have no present intention to enter into any. Our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our personnel is dependent on our ability to offer attractive compensation. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient cash available to continue to offer our employees attractive compensation. In addition, we or our Client Companies may be unwilling to grant our employees significant equity awards in our business, and the value of any equity awards they receive may be lower than anticipated. Also, in order to recruit and retain existing and future personnel, we may need to increase the level of compensation that we pay to them, which may cause a higher amount of our revenue to be paid out in the form of compensation, which may have an adverse impact on our profits.. We depend on our Founders and other key personnel.. We depend on the efforts, skills, reputations and business contacts of our Founders and other key personnel. The extent and nature of the experience of our executive officers and of the relationships they have with real estate professionals and financial institutions, although not a guarantee of positive results, are critical to the success of our business. The loss of the services of any of them could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, net income and cash flows and could impair our ability to maintain or grow assets under management in our Client Companies or otherwise maintain or grow our business.. We do not have experience managing a mortgage REIT.. With our acquisition of the Tremont business in August 2016 and the closing of the initial public offering of TRMT in September 2017, we have entered the commercial real estate finance business. We do not have significant experience in this business, and we have no experience managing a mortgage REIT like TRMT.  We have incurred material costs to enter this business, including approximately $6.6 million of costs related to the organization and initial public offering of TRMT.  We have also invested $12 million in common shares of TRMT.  Tremont Advisors recently entered a management agreement with TRMT that provides for TRMT to pay a base management fee to Tremont Advisors that is based on TRMT's \"equity\", as calculated in accordance with that management agreement, and an incentive fee that is based on the amount by which TRMT's \"core earnings\", as calculated in accordance with that management agreement, exceed the product of 7% and TRMT's \"equity\".  TRMT's success, the return on our investment in TRMT and fees payable to Tremont Advisors under our management agreement with TRMT will depend on numerous factors, including its ability to make investments that generate attractive, risk-adjusted returns, as well as its ability to access financing on acceptable terms.  There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this new business, that TRMT will achieve its objectives and operate successfully, or that we will earn fees from TRMT sufficient to recover the costs we have incurred or to provide a suitable return on our investment in TRMT.. We are subject to substantial regulation and numerous contractual obligations and internal policies, and failure to comply with these provisions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to substantial regulation and numerous contractual obligations and internal policies. We are subject to regulation by the SEC, The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC, or Nasdaq, and other federal, state and local or international governmental bodies and agencies or self-regulatory organizations. Moreover, RMR Advisors and Tremont Advisors must comply with the Investment Advisers Act. We are also responsible for managing or assisting with the regulatory aspects of certain of our Client Companies, including the Managed REITs' compliance with applicable REIT rules, RIF's compliance with the Investment Company Act and TRMT's maintenance of its exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act. The level of regulation and supervision to which we and our Client Companies are subject varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is based on the type of business activity involved. For example, we and TRMT may also be subject to state licensing requirements to conduct lending activities.  The regulations to which we and our Client Companies are subject are extensive, complex and require substantial management time and attention. Our or our Client Companies' failure to comply with any of the regulations, contractual obligations or policies may subject us to extensive investigations, as well as substantial penalties and reputational risk, and our business and operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our lack of compliance with applicable law could result in, among other things, our inability to enforce contracts, our default under contracts (including our management agreements or advisory agreements with our Client Companies) and our ineligibility to contract with, and receive revenue from, governmental authorities and agencies, our Client Companies or other third parties. We have numerous contractual obligations with which we must comply on a continuous basis to operate our business, the default of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have established internal policies designed to ensure that we manage our business in accordance with applicable law and regulation and in. 19. Table of Contents. accordance with our contractual obligations. These internal policies may not be effective in all regards; and, if we fail to comply with our internal policies, we could be subjected to additional risk and liability.. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and the market price of our Class A Common Shares may suffer.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and therefore we currently may avail ourselves of certain exemptions from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Although our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting, our independent auditors are not currently required to audit and issue an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our auditors identify material weaknesses in our internal controls, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial results and the market price of our Class A Common Shares may decline.. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could materially harm our business.. We rely on information technology and systems, including the Internet and commercially available software, to process, transmit, store and safeguard information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information of employees and tenants and lease data. If we experience material failures, inadequacies or interruptions or security failures of our information technology, we could incur material costs and losses. Further, third party vendors could experience similar events with respect to their information technology and systems that impact the products and services they provide to us or our Client Companies. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as our internal procedures and personnel, to provide security for processing, transmitting, storing and safeguarding confidential tenant, customer and vendor information, such as personally identifiable information related to our employees and others and information regarding our and our Client Companies' financial accounts. We take various actions, and we incur significant costs, to maintain and protect the operation and security of our information technology and systems, including the data maintained in those systems. However, it is possible that these measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or a compromise in security, such as in the event of a cyberattack or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information.. Security breaches, computer viruses, attacks by hackers, online fraud schemes and similar breaches can create significant system disruptions, shutdowns, fraudulent transfer of assets or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.  For example, in June 2017, we became aware that we had been a victim of criminal fraud in which a person pretending to be a representative of a seller in a property acquisition transaction provided fraudulent money wire instructions that caused money to be wire transferred to an account that was believed to be, but was not, the seller's account.  See Note 6, Related Person Transactions, to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information related to this fraud. The cybersecurity risks to us, our Client Companies and third party vendors are heightened by, among other things, the evolving nature of the threats faced, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography and new and increasingly sophisticated methods used to perpetuate illegal or fraudulent activities against us, including cyberattacks, email or wire fraud and other attacks exploiting security vulnerabilities in our or other third parties' information technology networks and systems or operations.  Any failure to maintain the security, proper function and availability of our information technology and systems, or certain third party vendors' failure to similarly protect their information technology and systems that are relevant to our or our Client Companies' operations, or to safeguard our or our Client Companies' business processes, assets and information could result in financial losses, interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, cause us to be in default of material contracts and subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties, any of which could materially and adversely affect us.. 20. Table of Contents. Two of our subsidiaries, RMR Advisors and Tremont Advisors, are registered with the SEC as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act. Compliance with laws and regulations applicable to registered investment advisers is complex and the failure of these subsidiaries to do so may adversely impact our business.. Our subsidiaries, RMR Advisors and Tremont Advisors, are registered with the SEC as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act. The Investment Advisers Act requires registered investment advisers to comply with numerous obligations, including compliance, record keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and limitations on certain activities. Investment advisers also may owe fiduciary duties to certain of their clients. These regulatory and fiduciary obligations may result in increased costs or otherwise adversely impact our business. If RMR Advisors or Tremont Advisors fails to meet its respective compliance and fiduciary obligations under the Investment Advisers Act, it may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations and enforcement actions, fines and penalties, or it may be unable or no longer permitted to provide investment advisory services to its clients, which would reduce our revenues.. Employee misconduct could harm us by subjecting us to significant legal liability, reputational harm and loss of business.. There is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. We are subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our business and our authority over the companies and assets we manage. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees may adversely affect our clients and us. Our business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our employees improperly use or disclose confidential information, we and the concerned client could suffer serious harm to our and its reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships and face potentially significant litigation. It is not always possible to detect or deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If any of our employees were to engage in or be accused of misconduct, our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. Misconduct by an employee might rise to the level of a default that would permit a Client Company to terminate its management agreements or advisory agreements with us for cause and without paying a termination fee, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. RMR LLC's required quarterly tax distributions and payments under our Tax Receivable Agreement with ABP Trust may limit our ability to implement our business or pursue growth opportunities.. The LLC Operating Agreement requires RMR LLC to make certain pro rata distributions to each member of RMR LLC, including RMR Inc., quarterly on the basis of the assumed tax liabilities of the members. Our Tax Receivable Agreement with ABP Trust requires that RMR Inc. pay to ABP Trust 85.0% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that RMR Inc. realizes as a result of (a) the increases in tax basis attributable to RMR Inc.'s dealings with ABP Trust and (b) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed to be paid by RMR Inc. as a result of the Tax Receivable Agreement. From time to time, RMR LLC's cash flows from operations may be insufficient to enable it to make required minimum tax distributions to its members and payments due under the Tax Receivable Agreement. RMR LLC may have to borrow funds or sell assets, and thereby materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Further, by making cash distributions and payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement rather than investing that cash in our businesses, we might risk slowing the pace of our growth, or not having a sufficient amount of cash to fund our operations, new investments or unanticipated capital expenditures, should the need arise. In such event, we may not be able to implement our business and growth strategy to the extent intended. In addition, we may have to borrow additional amounts to fund our operations or make capital expenditures, in which case our borrowing costs would increase and our liquidity would be negatively impacted.. Risks Related to the Businesses of our Client Companies. Risks associated with our Client Companies' businesses could adversely affect their respective abilities to grow, generate revenue and pay management fees to us and, thereby, adversely affect our business.. We have presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K historical fees that we have earned from our clients. The historical fees earned from our clients, including those presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our Client Companies or of our future results. The risks associated with each of the Client Companies' businesses could adversely affect its ability to carry out its business plans and objectives, and, as a result, could adversely impact its ability to pay us management or advisory fees or cause the amounts of those fees to decline. For more information see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Overview-EQC.\". 21. Table of Contents. Risks to our Client Companies include, but are not limited to, the following:. • the Managed Equity REITs face competition for tenants at substantially all of their properties and competing properties may be more attractive to tenants;. • our Client Companies face significant competition for investment opportunities from other investors, some of which have greater financial resources, including publicly traded REITs, non-traded REITs, insurance companies, banking firms, private institutional funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and other investors;. • rising interest rates may increase operating costs, reduce the value of properties and make raising capital difficult for our Client Companies;. • changing general economic and financial market conditions could significantly reduce the value of the real estate, loans and other investments of our Client Companies and reduce the amounts earned on those investments;. • the real estate and real estate related investments of our Client Companies may be less liquid than other investments, and the ability of our Client Companies to vary their portfolios in response to changes in economic or other conditions may be limited;. • changes in investor preferences or market conditions could limit our Client Companies' ability to raise capital to properly maintain their properties and operations or make new investments;. • shareholder activism, complaints about management strategies and structures, corporate governance and other matters may divert management attention and be disruptive to the operation of our Client Companies;. • changes in tax laws, regulation or accounting rules may make certain types of investments in or by our Client Companies less valuable;. • our Client Companies are exposed to environmental, building and other laws, natural disasters and other factors beyond their control as a result of their investment in real estate;. • our Client Companies have significant investments in certain types of assets, such as hotels, senior living communities, healthcare properties, travel centers and convenience stores, and market changes which impact these specific types of assets (e.g., new competition for short term accommodations, changes in Medicare and Medicaid rates and fuel efficiency improvements) may adversely impact certain of the Client Companies' ability to maintain or grow their business;. • the failure of a Managed REIT to continue to qualify as a REIT would subject it to federal income tax and reduce cash available for distributions to its shareholders, adversely impacting its ability to raise capital and operate its business; and. • complying with REIT requirements may cause a Managed REIT to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. Many of our Client Companies are SEC registrants and file reports with the SEC as required by the Exchange Act. A discussion of the businesses and the risks associated with the businesses of our Client Companies that are SEC registrants is contained in the reports filed by our Client Companies, including in the section captioned \"Risk Factors\" in each of the Managed Equity REITs', Five Star's and TA's annual reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, TRMT's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-219205) and RIF's applicable filings with the SEC. Copies of these reports are available at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov.. 22. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Securities. A trading market that provides adequate liquidity may not be sustained for our Class A Common Shares and the market price of our Class A Common Shares may fluctuate widely.. The majority of the securities representing the economic interest in our business are currently held by ABP Trust and the Managed Equity REITs and have not been registered for public sale. Our public float represents only about 23.2% of the economic interest in RMR LLC, which may adversely impact trading in our Class A Common Shares. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for our Class A Common Shares will be sustained in the future.. The market price of our Class A Common Shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the following:. • a relatively thin trading market for our Class A Common Shares could cause trades of small blocks of shares to have a significant impact on the price of our Class A Common Shares;. • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other comparable companies;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • announcements by us, our Client Companies or our competitors of significant investments, acquisitions or dispositions;. • the inclusion, exclusion, or deletion of our Class A Common Shares from any trading indices;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover our Class A Common Shares;. • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or in our ability to meet those estimates;. • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;. • overall market fluctuations; and. • general economic conditions.. Stock markets in general often experience volatility that is unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Common Shares. Our shareholders may not be able to resell their Class A Common Shares following periods of volatility because of the market's adverse reaction to volatility.. The reduced disclosure requirements applicable to us as an \"emerging growth company\" may make our Class A Common Shares less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may avail ourselves of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements of public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including, but not limited to, an exemption from complying with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirement of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may remain an emerging growth company until September 30, 2021. If some investors find our Class A Common Shares less attractive as a result of the exemptions available to us as an emerging growth company, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A Common Shares, and the trading price of our Class A Common Shares may be more volatile than that of an otherwise comparable company that does not avail itself of the same or. 23. Table of Contents. similar exemptions. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A Common Shares less attractive because we rely on the JOBS Act exemptions.. Our shareholders' percentage ownership in us may be diluted in the future.. Our shareholders' percentage ownership in us may be diluted in the future because of our future issuance of equity or equity linked securities and our grant of equity awards to our directors, executive officers and employees.. Some investors may be precluded from investing in our Class A Common Shares as a result of our dual class capital structure, which may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Common Shares.. In July 2017, S&P Dow Jones, a provider of widely followed stock indices, announced that companies with multiple share classes, such as ours, will not be eligible for inclusion in certain of their indices. As a result, our Class A Common Shares will likely not be eligible for these stock indices. Additionally, FTSE Russell, another provider of widely followed stock indices, recently stated that it plans to require new constituents of its indices to have at least five percent of their voting rights in the hands of public stockholders. Many investment funds are precluded from investing in companies that are not included in such indices, and these funds would be unable to purchase our Class A Common Shares. We cannot assure you that other stock indices will not take a similar approach to S&P Dow Jones or FTSE Russell in the future. Exclusion from indices could make our Class A Common Shares less attractive to investors and, as a result, the market price of our Class A Common Shares could be adversely affected.. Our dividend policy is subject to change.. RMR Inc. currently plans to pay a regular quarterly cash dividend equal to $0.25 per share ($1.00 per share per year) to holders of its Class A Common Shares. However, the amount of distributions RMR LLC may make in the future is not certain, and there is no assurance that future distributions will be made. The declaration and payment of dividends to our shareholders will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors, which may change the distribution policy or discontinue the payment of dividends at any time. Any change in our dividend policy could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Shares.. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Our Founders and Our Client Companies. Our Founders control our voting power, and our other shareholders will have less influence over our business than shareholders of most other publicly owned companies.. Substantially all of the voting power in RMR Inc. and a majority of the economic interest in RMR LLC is held by ABP Trust, an entity owned by our Founders. Our Founders and ABP Trust hold a combined 51.9% direct and indirect economic interest in RMR LLC and control 91.4% of RMR Inc.'s voting power through their beneficial ownership of all of our outstanding Class B-1 and Class B-2 Common Shares, which entitle holders to ten votes per share. See \"Business-Our Organizational Structure.\" RMR Inc. serves as the managing member of RMR LLC. Accordingly, our Founders, through ABP Trust, hold majority control of RMR Inc.'s voting power and thereby control RMR LLC.. As a result of their voting control, our Founders and ABP Trust are effectively able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval, including, but not limited to, election of our directors. Our Founders and ABP Trust are also able to cause or prevent a change of control of RMR Inc., and this voting control could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of RMR Inc. The voting control of our Founders and ABP Trust could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A Common Shares as part of a sale of us and may affect the market price of our Class A Common Shares.. Our management agreements with the Managed Equity REITs may discourage our change of control.. Each Managed Equity REIT may terminate its management agreements with us if we experience a change of control, as defined in those agreements, without payment of any termination fee. We may be unable to duplicate the long term management arrangements we have with each of the Managed Equity REITs. For these reasons, the management agreements may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for our Class A Common Shares.. 24. Table of Contents. The registration of two of our subsidiaries under the Investment Advisers Act may discourage our change of control.. Two of our subsidiaries, RMR Advisors and Tremont Advisors, are registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act. Any change in control of RMR Advisors or Tremont Advisors, as defined in and interpreted pursuant to the Investment Advisers Act, would trigger a shareholder approval right by RIF shareholders, TRMT or other advisory clients of RMR Advisors or Tremont Advisors as applicable, under that Act. The need for such approval may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for our Class A Common Shares.. ABP Trust's and the Managed Equity REITs' ability to sell their respective ownership stakes in us and speculation about such possible sales may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Shares.. ABP Trust and the Managed Equity REITs are not prohibited from selling some or all of our shares and may do so without approval by other shareholders of RMR Inc. ABP Trust also has the right to redeem its Class A Units for Class A Common Shares, for which we expect there will be a public market, or we may elect to pay cash instead of issuing more common shares. Speculation by the press, stock analysts, our shareholders or others regarding ABP Trust's or any Managed Equity REIT's intention to dispose of our shares could adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Shares. As long as a significant portion of our ownership is not trading in the public markets, the market price of our Class A Common Shares may be adversely impacted. Accordingly, our Class A Common Shares may be worth less than they would be if the Class A Common Shares owned by ABP Trust or the Managed Equity REITs or which ABP Trust has a right to acquire were trading in the public markets.. The Up-C Transaction and the agreements entered into as part of the Up-C Transaction are among related parties, which increases the risk of allegations of conflicts of interest, and such allegations may impair our ability to realize the benefits we expect from the Up-C Transaction.. Because of the relationships among us, our Founders and the Managed Equity REITs, including that our Founders are the managing trustees of each Managed Equity REIT and are our controlling shareholders, the executive officers of the Managed Equity REITs are our officers and employees and we provide management services to the Managed Equity REITs, the Up-C Transaction and the agreements entered into as part of the Up-C Transaction, including the amendment and extension of the management agreements to 20 year terms, are among related parties. When our Founders presented a proposal to the respective boards of trustees of the Managed Equity REITs for a transaction that led to the Up-C Transaction, the board of trustees of each Managed Equity REIT formed a special committee comprised of its independent trustees and a joint special committee comprised of the independent trustees of the Managed Equity REITs to evaluate and respond to the proposal. The joint special committee was advised by counsel and a financial advisor, and the special committee of each Managed Equity REIT was also advised by a separate financial advisor to assist in evaluating the proposal. The Up-C Transaction was unanimously recommended by the joint special committee and approved by the special committee of each Managed Equity REIT. Nonetheless, the Up-C Transaction may not be on terms as favorable to us or the Managed Equity REITs as it would have been if it was negotiated among unrelated parties. We are subject to the risk that our shareholders or the shareholders of the Managed Equity REITs may challenge the Up-C Transaction and the agreements entered into as part of the Up-C Transaction. If such a challenge were to be successful, we might not realize the benefits we expect from the Up-C Transaction. Moreover, any such challenge could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and growth and could adversely affect our ability to realize the benefits we expect from the Up-C Transaction, whether or not the allegations have merit or are substantiated.. Our management responsibilities to each of our Client Companies and any future companies we may manage may give rise to actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest.. Some of our Client Companies have overlapping investment objectives. Additionally, some of our Client Companies have material business relationships with each other that could give rise to conflicting interests. We anticipate that our Client Companies will acquire assets consistent with their investment objectives and that we identify for them. In so doing, we expect that our Client Companies may rely primarily on information we provide to them. While we and our Client Companies have policies and procedures in place that are intended to mitigate the risks of conflicts of interest, our allocation of investment opportunities, advice and commitments of our management team across our Client Companies might be perceived to favor one Client Company at the expense of another.. In addition to serving on our Board of Directors and executive team, at least one of our Founders also serves on the boards of each of the Managed REITs, Managed Operators, RIF, AIC and ABP Trust. All of the executive officers of these Client Companies are also our officers. These individuals may also hold equity positions in, or other positions with, us and these. 25. Table of Contents. Client Companies. In addition, several of the independent trustees and independent directors of our publicly owned Client Companies also serve as independent trustees or independent directors of other publicly owned Client Companies. Some of our Client Companies participate in a combined insurance program through AIC and we and the Managed REITs, Five Star and TA participate in a combined directors and officers insurance program. These multiple responsibilities and varying interests could create competition for the time and efforts of our Founders, RMR LLC and its subsidiaries and their officers and employees, and actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest may arise.. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder director nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with our Founders and our Client Companies, the position of our Founders and executive officers as directors, trustees or executive officers of our Client Companies, the position of independent trustees and independent directors of our publicly owned Client Companies as independent trustees or independent directors of other publicly owned Client Companies and the relationships among our Client Companies may precipitate such activities. In addition, certain proxy advisory firms which have significant influence over the voting by shareholders of public companies, have, in the past, recommended that shareholders vote against, or withhold votes for, the election of all board members up for election at our Client Companies. At each of HPT's and SNH's 2016 and 2017 annual shareholder meetings, less than a majority of the votes cast were in favor of the election at least one of the board members standing for election. These proxy advisory firms may also recommend that shareholders of the public Client Companies vote against, or withhold votes for, the election of board members of those Client Companies at future annual shareholder meetings, which may affect the outcome of those elections and impact the governance of those Client Companies, which may increase the risk of shareholder activism and litigation at those Client Companies. These activities could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management's attention and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. See \"-Risks Related to Our Relationships with Our Founders and Our Client Companies.\". Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. The historical consolidated financial information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not permit current or prospective investors to predict our future results of operations.. We are a recently formed company and a new public company. Our historical consolidated financial information is comprised of our and our subsidiaries' accounts. Our historical Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K are presented as if these entities were wholly owned, operated and consolidated within a single legal entity, to the extent we owned or were otherwise affiliated with them as of June 5, 2015, the date the Up-C Transaction was completed. Accordingly, this financial information may not be representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone public company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. For more information on our historical financial information, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the historical Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the Nasdaq listing rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Our shareholders will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. Our Founders, through their ownership of ABP Trust, hold more than 50.0% of the voting power of our shares eligible to vote. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" under the Nasdaq listing rules. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50.0% of the voting power in the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain listed company governance requirements, including the requirements that the board of directors be majority comprised of independent directors and that we have a compensation committee and a nominating and corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors. These exemptions do not modify the independence requirements for our audit committee, and we intend to comply with the applicable requirements of the SEC and Nasdaq with respect to our audit committee. Nonetheless, the fact that we intend to avail ourselves of some or all of these exceptions may cause our Class A Common Shares to trade at a lower price than if these protections were provided.. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited.. 26. Table of Contents. Our governing documents limit the liability of our directors and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our directors and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from:. • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. • active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated.. Additionally, our governing documents require us to indemnify, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, any of our present or former directors or executive officers who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. We also entered into separate agreements with our directors and executive officers providing for indemnification and advancement of expenses in addition to any rights such person may have under our governing documents.. As a result of these limitations on liability and indemnification obligations, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former directors and officers than might exist with other companies, which could limit shareholder recourse in the event of actions which some shareholders may believe are not in our best interest.. Our governing documents currently designate the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland or, if that court does not have jurisdiction the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, Baltimore Division as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our governing documents currently provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland, or if that court does not have jurisdiction the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, Baltimore Division, will be the sole and exclusive forum for: (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim for breach of a duty owed by any director, officer, manager or employee of ours to us or our shareholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any director, officer, manager or employee of ours arising pursuant to the Maryland General Corporation Law, our charter or bylaws brought by or on behalf of a shareholder; or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any director, officer, manager or employee of ours that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This choice of forum provision may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder believes is favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or holding any interest in our Class A Common Shares shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our governing documents described above, as they may be amended from time to time.. Disputes with our Founders and our Client Companies, and shareholder litigation against us or our directors and officers, may be referred to binding arbitration.. A number of our contracts with our Founders, ABP Trust and our Client Companies provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration. As a result, we and our shareholders may not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against our Founders, Client Companies, directors or officers. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding.. RMR Inc. is required to pay ABP Trust for certain tax benefits it claims as a result of the tax basis step up we receive as part of the Up-C Transaction and future redemptions by ABP Trust for Class A Common Shares or for cash. In certain circumstances, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual tax benefits RMR Inc. realizes.. In the Up-C Transaction, RMR Inc. purchased Class A Units from ABP Trust. In the future, additional Class A Units may be redeemed by ABP Trust for Class A Common Shares or cash. See \"Business-Our Organizational Structure-The LLC Operating Agreement-Redemption rights of holders of Class A Units.\" Both the initial purchase and these additional redemptions may result in increases in our tax basis of our assets that otherwise would not have been available. Such increases in tax basis are likely to increase (for tax purposes) depreciation and amortization deductions and therefore reduce the amount of income tax we otherwise would be required to pay in the future. These increases in tax basis may also decrease gain (or. 27. Table of Contents. increase loss) on future dispositions of certain capital assets to the extent the increased tax basis is allocated to those assets. The IRS may challenge all or part of these tax basis increases, and a court might sustain such a challenge.. We have entered into the Tax Receivable Agreement with ABP Trust that provides for the payment by RMR Inc. to ABP Trust of 85.0% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that RMR Inc. actually realizes as a result of (a) the increases in tax basis attributable to its dealings with ABP Trust and (b) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of the Tax Receivable Agreement. See \"Business-Organizational Structure-Tax Receivable Agreement.\" While the actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of redemptions, the price of our Class A Common Shares at the time of the redemption, the extent to which such redemptions are taxable, and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that, as a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of RMR LLC attributable to RMR Inc.'s interests in RMR LLC, during the expected term of the Tax Receivable Agreement, the payments that RMR Inc. makes to ABP Trust may be substantial.. ABP Trust generally will not reimburse RMR Inc. for any payments that may have been made under the Tax Receivable Agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances RMR Inc. could make payments to ABP Trust under the Tax Receivable Agreement in excess of cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under the Tax Receivable Agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, including the timing and amount of our future income.. In addition, the Tax Receivable Agreement provides that, upon certain changes of control and certain breaches of the agreement that we fail to cure in accordance with the terms of the agreement, our obligations with respect to Class A Units will be accelerated. In those circumstances, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement would be based on certain assumptions, including that we would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits described in the Tax Receivable Agreement, and that any Class A Units that have not been redeemed will be deemed redeemed for the market value of the Class A Common Shares at the time of the change of control or breach, as applicable. Consequently, it is possible, in these circumstances, that the actual cash tax savings realized by RMR Inc. may be significantly less than the corresponding Tax Receivable Agreement payments.. Our governing documents permit our directors and officers, our Client Companies and ABP Trust to retain corporate opportunities for their own benefit.. Under RMR Inc.'s governing documents and RMR LLC's operating agreement, no director or officer of ours who is also serving as an officer, employee or agent of a Client Company or any of ABP Trust's affiliates is required to present, communicate or offer any business opportunity to us, and such person shall have the right to hold any business opportunity for themselves or transfer it to any other person to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. If any of these persons fails to present an opportunity to us or takes the opportunity for themselves, to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law they will not be liable to us. We have renounced all potential interest or expectation in certain business opportunities which may fit our growth objectives in the future or otherwise have value to us. These opportunities may be directed to the Client Companies or other persons or entities with which we have no relationship. Additionally, under our governing documents, our directors, officers, employees and agents are permitted to engage in other business activities that are similar to, or even competitive with, our own. If such persons engage in competitive business activities, we may have no remedy under our governing documents in these circumstances.. Our governing documents do not limit our ability to enter into new lines of businesses and doing so may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our businesses.. Our governing documents do not limit our business to the management of commercial real estate assets or businesses related thereto. Accordingly, we may pursue other business initiatives. To the extent we enter into a new line of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with: (i) the required investment of capital and other resources; (ii) the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities competently or profitably; (iii) combining or integrating operational and management systems and controls; and (iv) the broadening of our geographic footprint, including the risks associated with conducting operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. Our strategic initiatives may include joint ventures or partnerships, in which case we will be subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control.. 28. Table of Contents. Our only material asset is our interest in RMR LLC and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from RMR LLC to pay our taxes and expenses.. RMR Inc. is organized as a holding company of RMR LLC and its only material assets are its limited liability company membership units of RMR LLC. RMR Inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. Pursuant to the agreements RMR Inc. entered into with RMR LLC in the Up-C Transaction, RMR Inc., as the managing member of RMR LLC, intends to cause RMR LLC to make distributions in an amount that is at least sufficient to cover applicable taxes payable by its members, other expenses and dividends, if any, declared by us.. Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of RMR LLC for any reason could limit or impair its ability to pay such distributions to us. Additionally, to the extent that RMR Inc. requires funds and RMR LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of financing or other arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. 29. Table of Contents"
