[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to certain risks and uncertainties in our business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to our Businesses. A portion of our assets are illiquid or have limited liquidity, which may limit our ability to sell those assets at favorable prices or at all and creates uncertainty in connection with valuing such assets.. Our assets include real estate, non-controlling interests in credit assets and related equity interests which may be illiquid or have limited liquidity. It may be difficult for us to dispose of assets with limited liquidity rapidly, or at favorable prices, if at all. In addition, assets with limited liquidity may be more difficult to value and may be sold at a substantial discount or experience more volatility than more liquid assets. We may not be able to dispose of assets at the carrying value reflected in our financial statements. Our results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our illiquid assets are materially higher than the values ultimately realized upon their disposal.. Our investment in Invesque shares is subject to transfer restrictions, market volatility and the risk that Invesque changes its dividend policy.. As of February 1, 2018, we owned 16.6 million shares, or approximately 34%, of Invesque, a real estate investment company that specializes in health care real estate and senior living property investment throughout North America.. Pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement, we have agreed to restrictions on the sale of our Invesque shares for a period ranging from 6 months to 18 months. The value of our Invesque shares will be reported at fair market value on a quarterly basis and may fluctuate. Invesque has historically paid monthly dividends but there can be no assurance that Invesque will continue to pay dividends in the same frequency or amount.. A loss in the fair market value of our Invesque shares or a reduction or discontinuation in the dividends paid on our Invesque shares could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in highly competitive markets for business opportunities and personnel, which could impede our growth and negatively impact our results of operations.. We operate in highly competitive markets for business opportunities in each of our areas of focus. Many of our competitors have financial, personnel and other resource advantages relative to us and may be better able to react to market conditions. These factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully competing for future business opportunities and personnel, which could impede our growth and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to risks associated with acquiring or divesting businesses or business operations.. We regularly evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities for growth. Acquired companies and operations may have unforeseen operating difficulties and may require greater than expected financial and other resources. In addition, potential issues associated with acquisitions could, among other things include:. • our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits, synergies or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of an acquisition within the anticipated time frame, or at all;. • receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with the acquisition;. • diversion of management's attention from other strategies and objectives;. • motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; and. • conforming and integrating financial reporting, standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures.. If an acquisition is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely effected.. We have also divested, and may in the future divest, businesses or business operations. Any divestitures may involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management's attention, significant costs and expenses, the loss of customer relationships and cash flow, and the disruption of the affected business or business operations. Failure to timely complete or to consummate a divestiture. 13. may negatively affect the valuation of the affected business or business operations or result in restructuring charges.. The amount of statutory capital and reserve requirements applicable to our insurance subsidiaries can increase due to factors outside of our control.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to statutory capital and reserve requirements established by applicable insurance regulators based on risk-based capital formulas. In any particular year, these requirements may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, most of which are outside our control, such as the amount of statutory income or losses generated, changes in equity market levels, the value of fixed-income and equity securities in the subsidiary's investment portfolio, changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, as well as changes to the risk-based capital formulas used by insurance regulators. Increases in the amount of additional statutory reserves that our insurance subsidiaries are required to hold may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our insurance subsidiaries' actual claims losses may exceed their reserves for claims, which may require them to establish additional reserves that may materially and adversely affect their business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our insurance subsidiaries maintain reserves to cover their estimated ultimate exposure for claims with respect to reported claims, and incurred, but not reported, claims as of the end of each accounting period. Reserves, whether calculated under GAAP or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of exposure. Instead, they represent our insurance subsidiaries' best estimates, generally involving actuarial projections, of the ultimate settlement and administration costs for a claim or group of claims, based on our assessment of facts and circumstances known at the time of calculation. The adequacy of reserves will be impacted by future trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. These variables are affected by external factors such as changes in the economic cycle, unemployment, inflation, judicial trends, legislative changes, as well as changes in claims handling procedures. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops. Adjustments to reserves, both positive and negative, are reflected in the statement of income of the period in which such estimates are updated. Because the establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of future losses, we can give no assurances that ultimate losses will not exceed existing claims reserves. In general, future loss development could require reserves to be increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our insurance subsidiaries' business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future or may need to refinance existing indebtedness, but there is no assurance that such capital will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all.. We may need to raise additional funds or refinance our indebtedness in order to grow our business or fund our strategy or acquisitions. Additional financing may not be available in sufficient amounts, if at all, or on terms acceptable to us and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. Additionally, any securities issued to raise such funds may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, if at all, or on acceptable terms, our ability to expand, develop or enhance our subsidiaries' services and products, enter new markets, consummate acquisitions or respond to competitive pressures could be materially limited.. Our information systems may fail or their security may be compromised, which could damage our specialty insurance business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our specialty insurance business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our information systems and our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage significant databases and expand and upgrade our information systems. Our specialty insurance business relies on these systems for a variety of functions, including marketing and selling our products and services, performing our services, managing our operations, processing claims and applications, providing information to clients, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. The interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities through the loss of stored data, programming errors, the breakdown or malfunctioning of computer equipment or software systems, telecommunications failure or damage caused by weather or natural disasters or any other significant disruptions could harm our specialty insurance business by hampering its ability to generate revenues and could negatively affect client relationships, competitive position and reputation. In addition, our information systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses or other attacks which could disable our information systems and our security measures may not prevent such attacks. The failure of our systems as a result of any security breaches, intrusions or attacks could cause significant interruptions to our operations, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 14. Our insurance business is dependent on independent financial institutions, lenders and retailers for distribution of its products and services, and the loss of these distribution sources, or their failure to sell our insurance business's products and services could materially and adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our insurance business is dependent on financial institutions, lenders and retailers to distribute its products and services and its revenue is dependent on the level of business conducted by such distributors as well as the effectiveness of their sales efforts, each of which is beyond our insurance business's control because such distributors typically do not have any minimum performance or sales requirements. Further, although its contracts with these distributors are typically exclusive, they can be canceled on relatively short notice. Therefore, our insurance business's growth is dependent, in part, on its ability to identify and attract new distribution relationships and successfully implement its information systems with those of its new distributors. The impairment of our insurance business's distribution relationships, the loss of a significant number of its distribution relationships, the failure to establish new distribution relationships, the failure to offer increasingly competitive products, the increase in sales of competitors' services and products by these distributors or the decline in their overall business activity or the effectiveness of their sales of our insurance business's products could materially reduce our insurance business's sales and revenues and have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our insurance business may lose clients or business as a result of consolidation within the financial services industry.. There has been considerable consolidation in the financial services industry, driven primarily by the acquisition of small and mid-size organizations by larger entities. We expect this trend to continue. Our insurance business may lose business or suffer decreased revenues if one or more of its significant clients or distributors consolidate or align themselves with other companies. While our insurance business has not been materially affected by consolidation to date, it may be affected by industry consolidation that occurs in the future, particularly if any of its significant clients are acquired by organizations that already possess the operations, services and products that it provides.. A downgrade in our insurance subsidiaries' claims paying ability or financial strength ratings could increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, adversely affecting relationships with distributors and reducing new policy sales.. Claims paying ability ratings, sometimes referred to as financial strength ratings, indicate a rating agency's view of an insurance company's ability to meet its obligations to its policy holders. These ratings are therefore key factors underlying the competitive position of insurers. Some distributors of insurance products may choose not to do business with insurance companies that are rated below certain financial strength ratings. Our insurance subsidiaries currently have a rating of \"A-\" from A.M. Best Company, Inc. Rating agencies can be expected to continue to monitor our insurance subsidiaries' financial strength and claims paying ability, and no assurances can be given that future ratings downgrades will not occur, whether due to changes in their performance, changes in rating agencies' industry views or ratings methodologies, or a combination of such factors. A ratings downgrade or the potential for such a downgrade in a rating could, to the extent applicable to a particular type of policy, adversely affect relationships with distributors of insurance products, reduce new policy sales and adversely affect our ability to compete in the insurance industry.. Our insurance subsidiaries may incur losses if reinsurers are unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts.. Our insurance subsidiaries use reinsurance to reduce the severity and incidence of claims costs, and to provide relief with regard to certain reserves. Under these reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and related expenses; however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims and we assume credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. The inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our insurance business's reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. Our insurance business may not be able to maintain its current reinsurance facilities and its clients may not be able to continue to operate their captive reinsurance companies. As a result, even where highly desirable or necessary, our insurance business may not be able to obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If our insurance business is unable to renew its expiring facilities or to obtain or structure new reinsurance facilities, either its net exposures would increase or, if it is unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, it may have to reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. Either of these potential developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Due to the structure of some of our insurance business's commissions, it is exposed to risks related to the creditworthiness of some of its agents.. Our insurance business is subject to the credit risk of some of the agents with which it contracts to sell its products and services.. 15. Our insurance business typically advances agents' commissions as part of its product offerings. These advances are a percentage of the premiums charged. If our insurance business over-advances such commissions to agents, the agents may not be able to fulfill their payback obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our insurance business's results of operations and financial condition.. Our investable assets include NPLs, which have inherent risks that may be exacerbated due to geographic concentrations and reliance on third parties.. We acquire NPLs where the borrower has failed to make timely payments of principal and/or interest. We purchase these loans at a discount to face value of the loan, relying on the underlying value of the property as collateral for recovery of our investment. If actual results are different from our assumptions in determining the prices for such loans, particularly if the market value of the underlying property decreases significantly, we may incur a loss.. Our portfolio of NPLs may be concentrated by geography and borrower demographics, increasing the risk of loss to us if the particular concentration in our NPL portfolio is subject to greater risks or undergoes adverse developments. A material decline in the demand for housing in the areas where we will own assets may materially and adversely affect us.. In addition, we rely on various third parties to help us effectively run our NPL business. For example, we use a third party asset manager to identify, evaluate and coordinate our NPL acquisitions as well as to manage our NPL portfolio, including loan modifications and conversion to REO. Furthermore, we rely on third party servicers to service our NPLs, including managing collections. If the servicers are not vigilant in encouraging borrowers to make their monthly payments, the borrowers may be far less likely to make these payments. We also rely on our servicers to provide all of our property management and renovation management services associated with the real properties we acquire upon conversion of NPLs to REO. If our agreements with any such third party terminates and we are unable to obtain a suitable replacement at attractive costs, our ability to acquire, resolve or dispose of our NPLs could be adversely affected.. Changes in CLO spreads and an adverse market environment could make it difficult for us to launch new CLOs thereby reducing management fees paid to Telos, which could adversely affect our profitability.. Telos generates management and advisory fees based on the amount of assets managed, and, in certain cases, on the returns generated by the assets managed. The ability to issue new CLOs is dependent, in part, on the amount of excess interest earned on a new CLO's investments over interest payable on its debt obligations. If the spread is not attractive to potential CLO equity investors we may not be able to sponsor the issuance of new CLOs, which could have a material adverse impact on Telos' business. A reduction in fees paid to Telos, due to an inability to issue new CLOs at attractive terms, termination of existing management agreements, reduction in assets managed (for example, as a result of exercise of optional call provisions by subordinated noteholders) or lower than expected returns could adversely affect our results of operations.. In advance of issuing and managing a new CLO, we expect to enter into warehouse agreements which may expose us to substantial risks.. In connection with our potential investment in and management of new CLOs, we expect to enter into warehouse lending agreements with warehouse loan providers to finance the purchase of investments that will be ultimately included in a CLO. We  typically select the investments in the warehouse subject to the approval of the warehouse provider. If the relevant CLO transaction is not issued, the warehouse investments may be liquidated, and we may experience a loss if the aggregate sale price of the collateral is less than the warehouse loan amount. In addition, regardless of whether the CLO is issued or consummated, if any of the warehoused investments are sold before such issuance or consummation, we may have to bear any resulting loss on the sale. The amount at risk in connection with a warehouse agreement will vary and may not be limited to the amount, if any, that we invest in the related CLO upon its issuance. Although we would expect to complete the issuance of a particular CLO within six to nine months after establishing a related warehouse, we may not be able to complete the issuance within such expected time period or at all.. Some of our investments are made jointly with other persons or entities, which may limit our flexibility with respect to such jointly owned investments and could, thereby, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to sell these investments.. Some of our investments are made jointly with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of such structures and we may continue to do so in the future. Our participation in such joint investments is subject to the risks that:. • we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes;. 16. • our partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments;. • our partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as partners, which may require us to infuse our own capital into such venture(s) on behalf of the partner(s) despite other competing uses for such capital;. • our partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues;. • any sale or other disposition of our interest in such a venture may require consents which we may not be able to obtain;. • such transactions may also trigger other contractual rights held by a partner, lender or other third party depending on how the transaction is structured; and. • there may be disagreements as to whether consents and/or approvals are required in connection with the consummation of a particular transaction with a partner, lender and/or other third party, or whether such transaction triggers other contractual rights held by a partner, lender and/or other third party, and in either case, those disagreements may result in litigation.. The volume of our mortgage loan originations is subject to a variety of factors, which include the level of interest rates, overall conditions in the housing market and general economic trends.. Changes in interest rates and the level of interest rates are key drivers that impact the volatility of our mortgage loan originations.  The historically low interest rate environment over the last several years has created strong demand for mortgages. The Federal Reserve recently raised rates and has indicated an intention to continue raising rates in the near future. Further increases in interest rates could result in us having lower revenue or profitability. The overwhelming majority of our mortgage loan originations have historically been refinancing existing homeowner's mortgage loans. With rates at or near historically low levels, we have been able to continue to grow our mortgage loan originations by focusing on refinances. With rising interest rates, we may not be able to continue to do so in the future.. Our mortgage business is highly dependent upon programs administered by GSEs, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae, to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors. Any changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs could materially and adversely affect our mortgage businesses, financial condition and results of operations.. There is uncertainty regarding the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including with respect to how long they will continue to be in existence, the extent of their roles in the market and what forms they will have. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be reduced or eliminated and the nature of their guarantees could be limited or eliminated relative to historical measurements. The elimination or modification of the traditional roles of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac could adversely affect our mortgage businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of these GSEs and Ginnie Mae, or any significant adverse change in the level of activity of these agencies in the primary or secondary mortgage markets or in the underwriting criteria of these agencies could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to obtain sufficient capital to meet the financing requirements of our mortgage business.. We fund substantially all of the loans which we originate through borrowings under warehouse financing and repurchase facilities.  Our borrowings are in turn repaid with the proceeds we receive from selling such loans through whole loan sales.  As we expand our operations, we will require increased financing.. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on terms reasonably satisfactory to us or at all.  An event of default, an adverse action by a regulatory authority or a general deterioration in the economy that constricts the availability of credit-similar to the market conditions experienced in recent years-may increase our cost of funds and make it difficult for us to obtain new, or retain existing, warehouse financing facilities.  If we fail to maintain, renew or obtain adequate funding under these warehouse financing facilities or other financing arrangements, or there is a substantial reduction in the size of or increase in the cost of such facilities, we would have to curtail our mortgage loan production activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results in our mortgage business.. In our mortgage business, we may sustain losses and/or be required to indemnify or repurchase loans we originated, or will originate, if, among other things, our loans fail to meet certain criteria or characteristics.. The contracts with purchasers of our whole loans contain provisions that require us to indemnify or repurchase the related loans under certain circumstances. While our contracts vary, they contain provisions that require us to repurchase loans if:. • our representations and warranties concerning loan quality and loan circumstances are inaccurate, including. 17. representations concerning the licensing of a mortgage broker;. • we fail to secure adequate mortgage insurance within a certain period after closing;. • a mortgage insurance provider denies coverage; or. • we fail to comply, at the individual loan level or otherwise, with regulatory requirements in the current dynamic regulatory environment.. We maintain reserves that we believe are appropriate to cover potential loan repurchase or indemnification losses, but there can be no assurance that such reserves will, in fact, be sufficient to cover future repurchase and indemnification claims. If we are required to indemnify or repurchase loans that we originate and sell that result in losses that exceed our reserve, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Furthermore, in the ordinary course of our mortgage business, we are subject to claims made against us by borrowers and private investors arising from, among other things, losses that are claimed to have been incurred as a result of alleged breaches of fiduciary obligations, misrepresentations, errors and omissions of our employees, officers and agents (including our appraisers), incomplete documentation and our failure to comply with various laws and regulations applicable to our business.. In addition, should the mortgage loans we originate sustain higher levels of delinquencies and/or defaults, we may lose the ability to originate and/or sell FHA loans, or to do so profitably and investors to whom we currently sell our mortgage loans may refuse to continue to do business with us, or may reduce the prices they are willing to purchase our mortgage loans and it may be difficult or impossible to sell any of our mortgage loans in the future. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in our mortgage business.. We may be limited in the future in utilizing net operating losses incurred during prior periods to offset taxable income.. We previously incurred net operating losses. In the event that we experience an \"ownership change\" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code, our ability to use those net operating losses to offset taxable income could be subject to an annual limitation. The annual limitation would be equal to a percentage of our equity value at the time the ownership change occurred. In general, such an \"ownership change\" would occur if the percentage of our stock owned by one or more 5% stockholders (including certain groups or persons acting in concert) were to increase by 50 percentage points during any three-year period. All stockholders that own less than 5% of our stock are treated as a single 5% stockholder. In addition, the Treasury Regulations under Section 382 of the Code contain additional rules the effect of which is to make it more likely that an ownership change could be deemed to occur. Accordingly, our ability to use prior net operating losses to offset future taxable income would be subject to a limitation if we experience an ownership change.. We leverage our assets and a decline in the fair value of such assets may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We leverage our assets, including through borrowings, generally through warehouse credit facilities, secured loans, securitizations (including the issuance of CLOs) and other borrowings. A rapid decline in the fair value of our leveraged assets may adversely affect us. Lenders may require us to post additional collateral to support the borrowing. If we cannot post the additional collateral, we may have to rapidly liquidate assets, which we may be unable to do on favorable terms or at all. Even after liquidating assets, we may still be unable to post the required collateral, further harming our liquidity and subjecting us to liability to lenders for the declines in the fair values of the collateral. A reduction in credit availability may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain of our and our subsidiaries' assets are subject to credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, credit spread risk, call and redemption risk and/or tax risk, and any one of these risks may materially and adversely affect the value of our assets, our results of operations and our financial condition.. Some of our assets, including our direct investments, are subject to credit risk, interest rate risk, market risk, credit spread risk, selection risk, call and redemption risk and refinancing risk.. Credit risk is the risk that the obligor will be unable to pay scheduled principal and/or interest payments. Defaults by third parties in the payment or performance of their obligations could reduce our income and realized gains or result in the recognition of losses. The fair value of our assets may be materially and adversely affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades in our direct investments and by other factors that may result in the recognition of other-than-temporary impairments. Each of these events may cause us to reduce the fair value of our assets.. Interest rate risk is the risk that general interest rates will rise or that the risk spread used in our financings will increase.. 18. Although interest rates have been at historically low levels for the last several years, the Federal Reserve recently raised rates and has indicated an intention to continue raising rates in the coming months, and a period of sharply rising interest rates could have an adverse impact on our business by negatively impacting demand for mortgages, corporate loans and value of our CLO holdings and increasing our cost of borrowing to finance operations.. Market risk is the risk that one or more markets to which the assets relate will decline in value, including the possibility that such markets will deteriorate sharply and unpredictably, which will likely impair the market value of the related instruments.. Credit spread risk is the risk that the market value of fixed income instruments will change in response to changes in perceived or actual credit risk beyond changes that would be attributable to changes, if any, in interest rates.. Call and redemption risk is the risk that fixed income investments will be called or redeemed prior to maturity at a time when yields on other debt instruments in which the call or redemption proceeds could be invested are lower than the yield on the called or redeemed instrument.. Refinancing risk is the risk that we will be unable to refinance some or all of our indebtedness or that any refinancing will not be on terms as favorable as those of our existing indebtedness, which could increase our funding costs, limit our ability to borrow, or result in a sale of the leveraged asset on disadvantageous terms. Any one of these risks may materially and adversely affect the value of our assets, our results of operations and our financial condition.. Our risk mitigation or hedging strategies could result in our experiencing significant losses that may materially adversely affect us.. We pursue risk mitigation and hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to losses from adverse credit events, interest rate changes and other risks. These strategies have included short Treasury positions, interest rate swaps, foreign exchange derivatives, credit derivatives and other derivative hedging instruments. Since we account for derivatives at fair market value, changes in fair market value are reflected in net income other than derivative hedging instruments which are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders' equity. Some of these strategies could result in our experiencing significant losses that may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The values we record for certain investments and liabilities are based on estimates of fair value made by our management, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate and may not be indicative of the value we can realize on a sale.. Some of our investments and liabilities are not actively traded and the fair value of such investments and liabilities are not readily determinable. Each of these carrying values is based on an estimate of fair value by our management. Management reports the estimated fair value of these investments and liabilities quarterly, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Therefore, our past quarterly results may not be indicative of our performance in future quarters. In addition, because such valuations are inherently uncertain, in some cases based on internal models and unobservable inputs, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments and liabilities existed. As such, we may be unable to realize the carrying value upon a sale of these investments.. The accounting rules applicable to certain of our transactions are highly complex and require the application of significant judgment and assumptions by our management. In addition, changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements.. Accounting rules for consolidations, income taxes, business acquisitions, transfers of financial assets, securitization transactions and other aspects of our operations are highly complex and require the application of judgment and assumptions by our management. In addition, changes in accounting rules, interpretations or assumptions could materially impact the presentation, disclosure and usability of our financial statements. For more information see Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\".. Risks Related to our Structure. Because we are a holding company, our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends to stockholders will depend on distributions from our subsidiaries that may be subject to restrictions and income from assets.. We are a holding company and do not have any significant operations of our own, other than our principal investments. Our ability to meet our obligations will depend on distributions from our subsidiaries and income from assets. The amount of dividends. 19. and other distributions that our subsidiaries may distribute to us may be subject to restrictions imposed by state law, restrictions that may be imposed by state regulators and restrictions imposed by the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur. Such restrictions would also affect our ability to pay dividends to stockholders, if and when we choose to do so.. Our insurance business Junior Subordinated Notes due 2057 restrict dividends to us based on the leverage ratio of our insurance business and its subsidiaries. Our regulated insurance company subsidiaries are required to satisfy minimum capital and surplus requirements according to the laws and regulations of the states in which they operate, which regulate the amount of dividends and distributions we receive from them. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed \"extraordinary\" and require insurance regulatory approval. Ordinary dividends, for which no regulatory approval is generally required, are limited to amounts determined by a formula, which varies by state. Some states have an additional stipulation that dividends may only be paid out of earned surplus. States also regulate transactions between our insurance company subsidiaries and us or our other subsidiaries, such as those relating to shared services, and in some instances, require prior approval of such transactions within the holding company structure. If insurance regulators determine that payment of an ordinary dividend or any other payments by our insurance company subsidiaries to us or our other subsidiaries (such as payments for employee or other services) would be adverse to policyholders or creditors, the regulators may block or otherwise restrict such payments that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval. In addition, there could be future regulatory actions restricting the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends or share services.. Some of our officers and directors currently or may in the future act as members, managers, officers, directors or employees of entities with conflicting business strategies.. Some of our officers and directors currently or may in the future act as members, managers, officers, directors or employees of entities with business strategies that may conflict with our business strategies. Michael Barnes, our Executive Chairman, is a founding partner and Co-Chief Investment Officer of Tricadia. Tricadia's subsidiaries include, and Mr. Barnes is Co-Chief Investment officer of, companies that manage hedge funds, private equity funds and structured vehicles with business strategies that may compete with ours. Jonathan Ilany, our Chief Executive Officer, is a limited partner of Mariner, which is a stockholder of Tiptree and provides information technology services to Tiptree. Such positions may give rise to actual or potential conflicts of interest, which may not be resolved in a manner that is in the best interests of the Company or the best interests of its stockholders.. We incur costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to these compliance activities.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other costs. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act,\" the Dodd-Frank Act, and the rules of the SEC and Nasdaq, impose various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance activities. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming.. Furthermore, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to potential delisting by Nasdaq and review by such exchange, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which would require the expenditure by us of additional financial and management resources. As a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the market price of our common stock.. Some provisions of our charter may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders consider in their best interests.. Our charter restricts any person that owns 9.8% or more of our capital stock, other than TFP and its affiliates or another stockholder approved by applicable state insurance regulators, from voting in excess of 9.8% of our voting securities. This provision is intended to satisfy the requirements of applicable state regulators in connection with insurance laws and regulations that prohibit any person from acquiring control of a regulated insurance company without the prior approval of the insurance regulators. In addition, our charter provides for the classification of our board of directors into three classes, one of which is to be elected each year. Our charter also generally only permits stockholders to act without a meeting by unanimous consent. These provisions may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders consider in their best interests.. Maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of our control, which could depress our stock price.. Maryland law provides that \"control shares\" of a corporation acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" will have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. \"Control shares\" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the. 20. acquirer or in respect of which the acquirer is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third; one-third or more but less than a majority; or a majority or more of all voting power. A \"control share acquisition\" means the acquisition of issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions.. Under Maryland law, \"business combinations\" between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which such stockholder became an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities.. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share statute any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of stock. Our board of directors has also adopted a resolution which provides that any business combination between us and any other person is exempted from the provisions of the business combination statute, provided that the business combination is first approved by the board of directors. However, our board of directors may amend or eliminate this provision in our bylaws regarding the control share statute or amend or repeal this resolution regarding the business combination statute. If our board takes such action in the future, the control share and business combination statutes may prevent or discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.. Our holding company structure with multiple lines of business, may adversely impact the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to raise equity and debt capital.. Tiptree holds and manages multiple lines of business. Analysts, investors and lenders may have difficulty analyzing and valuing a company with multiple lines of business, which could adversely impact the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to raise equity and debt capital at a holding company level. Moreover, our management is required to make decisions regarding the allocation of capital among the different lines of business, and such decisions could materially and adversely affect our business or one or more of our lines of business.. Risks Related to Regulatory and Legal Matters. Maintenance of our 1940 Act exemption imposes limits on our operations.. We conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Therefore, we must limit the types and nature of businesses in which we engage and assets that we acquire. We monitor our compliance with the 1940 Act on an ongoing basis and may be compelled to take or refrain from taking actions, to acquire additional income or loss generating assets or to forgo opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial or advisable, including, but not limited to selling assets that are considered to be investment securities or forgoing the sale of assets that are not investment securities, in order to ensure that we (or a subsidiary) may continue to rely on the applicable exceptions or exemptions. These limitations on our freedom of action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to maintain an exemption, exception or other exclusion from registration as an investment company, we could, among other things, be required to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations either to avoid being required to register as an investment company or to register as an investment company. If we were required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to, among other things, our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the 1940 Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we did not register despite being required to do so, criminal and civil actions could be brought against us, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court were to require enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business.. A change in law, regulation or regulatory enforcement applicable to insurance products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. A change in state or U.S. federal tax laws could materially affect our insurance businesses. Currently, our insurance business does not collect sales or other related taxes on its services. Whether sales of our insurance business's services are subject to state sales and use taxes is uncertain, due in part to the nature of its services and the relationships through which its services are offered, as well as changing state laws and interpretations of those laws. One or more states may seek to impose sales or use tax or other tax collection obligations on our insurance business, whether based on sales by our insurance business or its resellers or clients, including for past sales. A successful assertion that our insurance business should be collecting sales or other related taxes on its services could result. 21. in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing its services, discourage clients from offering or billing for its services, or otherwise cause material harm to its business, financial condition and results of operations.. With regard to our insurance business's payment protection products, there are federal and state laws and regulations that govern the disclosures related to lenders' sales of those products. Our insurance business's ability to offer and administer these products on behalf of financial institutions is dependent upon their continued ability to sell such products. To the extent that federal or state laws or regulations change to restrict or prohibit the sale of these products, our insurance business's revenues would be adversely affected. For example, the CFPB's enforcement actions have resulted in large refunds and civil penalties against financial institutions in connection with their marketing of payment protection and other products. Due to such regulatory actions, some lenders may reduce their sales and marketing of payment protection and other ancillary products, which may adversely affect our insurance business's revenues. The full impact of the CFPB's oversight is unpredictable and continues to evolve. With respect to the property and casualty insurance policies our insurance business underwrites, federal legislative proposals regarding national catastrophe insurance, if adopted, could reduce the business need for some of the related products that our insurance business provides.. Compliance with existing and new regulations affecting our business in regulated industries may increase costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations administered and enforced by a number of different federal and state governmental authorities in the industries in which we operate. Regulation of such industries may increase. In the past several years, there has been significant legislation affecting financial services, insurance and health care, including the Dodd-Frank Act and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. In addition, the New York Department of Financial Services has adopted Cybersecurity regulations applicable to our insurance and mortgage operations in New York. Accordingly, we cannot predict the impact that any new laws and regulations will have on us. The costs to comply with these laws and regulations may be substantial and could have a significant negative impact on us and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. We can give no assurances that with changes to laws and regulations, our businesses can continue to be conducted in each jurisdiction in the manner as we have in the past.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by state and, in some cases, foreign insurance authorities with respect to statutory capital, reserve and other requirements. The laws of the various states in which our insurance businesses operate establish insurance departments and other regulatory agencies with broad powers to preclude or temporarily suspend our insurance subsidiaries from carrying on some or all of their activities or otherwise fine or penalize them in any jurisdiction in which they operate. Such regulation or compliance could reduce our insurance businesses' profitability or limit their growth by increasing the costs of compliance, limiting or restricting the products or services they sell, or the methods by which they sell their services and products, or subjecting their business to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings.. Due to the highly regulated nature of the residential mortgage industry, our mortgage subsidiaries are required to comply with a wide array of federal, state and local laws and regulations that regulate licensing, allowable fees and loan terms, permissible servicing and debt collection practices, limitations on forced-placed insurance, special consumer protections in connection with default and foreclosure, and protection of confidential, nonpublic consumer information. In addition, mortgage servicers must comply with U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations that regulate, among other things, the manner in which they service our NPL mortgage loans and manage our real property. These laws and regulations are constantly changing and the volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years as states and local cities and counties continue to enact laws that either restrict or impose additional obligations in connection with certain loan origination, acquisition and servicing activities in those cities and counties. These laws and regulations are complex and vary greatly among different states and localities, and in some cases, these laws are in conflict with each other or with U.S. federal law. A failure by us or our servicers to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject our mortgage businesses and/or our mortgage servicers to lawsuits or governmental actions, which could result in the loss or suspension of our licenses in the applicable jurisdictions where such violations occur and/or monetary fines or changes in our mortgage operations.   If we were to determine to change servicers, there is no assurance that we could find servicers that satisfy our requirements or with whom we could enter into agreements on satisfactory terms. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our mortgage businesses.. Changes to consumer protection laws or changes in their interpretation may impede collection efforts in connection with our investments in NPLs, delaying and/or reducing our returns on these investments. The CFPB has specifically focused on servicing and foreclosure practices, especially as it relates to the servicing of delinquent loans. Many of these laws and regulations are focused on sub-prime borrowers and are intended to curtail or prohibit some industry standard practices. While we believe that our practices are in compliance with these changes and enhanced regulations, certain of our collections methods could be prohibited in the future, forcing us to revise our practices and implement more costly or less effective policies and procedures. Federal or state bankruptcy or debtor relief laws could offer additional protection to borrowers seeking bankruptcy protection, providing a court greater leeway to reduce or discharge amounts owed to us. As a result, some of these changes in laws and regulations could impact our expected returns and/or ability to recover some of our investment.. 22. TAMCO is an asset management holding company registered with the SEC as an investment advisor and is subject to various federal and state laws and regulations and rules of various securities regulators and exchanges. These laws and regulations primarily are intended to protect clients and generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in business for specific periods, the revocation of the registration as an investment adviser, censures and fines.. The final rules implementing the credit risk retention requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective beginning on December 24, 2016 with respect to CLOs (the \"Risk Retention Rules\"). The Risk Retention Rules generally require sponsors of asset-backed securities transactions or their affiliates to retain not less than 5% of the credit risk of the assets collateralizing asset-backed securities for the life of the vehicle. The Risk Retention Rules also generally prohibit hedging the credit risk that is required to be retained. The Risk Retention Rules may impact our returns in the business, and thus our ability or desire to manage CLOs in the future. We are exploring multiple alternatives for compliance with the Risk Retention Rules.. While the CFPB does not have direct jurisdiction over insurance products, it is possible that regulatory actions taken by the CFPB may affect the sales practices related to these products and thereby potentially affect our insurance business or the clients that it serves. In March 2015, the CFPB announced it is considering proposing rules under its unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices rulemaking authority relating to consumer installment loans, among other things. If and when implemented CFPB rules regarding consumer installment loans could adversely impact our insurance business's volume of insurance products and services and cost structure. In addition, the CFPB's enforcement actions and examinations have resulted in large refunds and civil penalties against financial institutions in connection with their marketing of payment protection and other products. Due to such regulatory actions, some lenders may reduce their sales and marketing of payment protection and other ancillary products, which may adversely affect our insurance business's revenues.. Our businesses are subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions.. Over the last several years, businesses in many areas of the financial services industry have been subject to increasing amounts of regulatory scrutiny. In addition, there has been an increase in litigation involving firms in the financial services industry and public companies generally, some of which have involved new types of legal claims, particularly in the insurance industry. We may be materially and adversely affected by judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, unanticipated costs or other effects of legal and administrative proceedings now pending or that may be instituted in the future, including from investigations by regulatory bodies or administrative agencies. An adverse outcome of any investigation by, or other inquiries from, any such bodies or agencies also could result in non-monetary penalties or sanctions, loss of licenses or approvals, changes in personnel, increased review and scrutiny of us by our clients, counterparties, regulatory authorities, potential litigants, the media and others, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Failure to protect our clients' confidential information and privacy could result in the loss of our reputation and customers, reduction in our profitability and subject us to fines, penalties and litigation and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We and our subsidiaries retain confidential information in our information systems, and we are subject to a variety of privacy regulations and confidentiality obligations. For example, some of the Company's subsidiaries are subject to the privacy regulations of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. We and certain of our subsidiaries also have contractual obligations to protect confidential information we obtain from third parties. These obligations generally require us, in accordance with applicable laws, to protect such information to the same extent that we protect our own confidential information. We have implemented physical, administrative and logical security systems with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and systems and protecting our clients' and their customers' confidential information and personally-identifiable information against unauthorized access through our information systems or by other electronic transmission or through misdirection, theft or loss of data. Despite such efforts, we may be subject to a breach of our security systems that results in unauthorized access to our facilities and/or the information we are trying to protect. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures and penetrate our information systems could access, view, misappropriate, alter or delete any information in the systems, including personally identifiable customer information and proprietary business information. In addition, most states require that customers be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of personally-identifiable customer information. Any compromise of the security of our or our subsidiaries' information systems that results in inappropriate disclosure of such information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity and damage to our and our subsidiaries' reputation, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty in marketing our services, loss of clients, significant civil and criminal liability, litigation and the incurrence of significant technical, legal and other expenses, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 23. Cyberattacks targeting Tiptree's process control networks or other digital infrastructure could have a material adverse impact on the company's business and results of operations. There are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy from cyber threat actors, including criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage and employee malfeasance. These cyber threat actors are becoming more sophisticated and coordinated in their attempts to access the Company's information technology (\"IT\") systems and data, including the IT systems of cloud providers and third parties with which the Company conducts business. Although the Company devotes significant resources to prevent unwanted intrusions and to protect its systems and data, whether such data is housed internally or by external third parties, the Company has experienced immaterial cyber incidents and will continue to experience cyber incidents of varying degrees in the conduct of its business. Cyber threat actors could compromise the Company's process control networks or other critical systems and infrastructure, resulting in disruptions to its business operations, access to its financial reporting systems, or loss, misuse or corruption of its critical data and proprietary information, including without limitation its business information and that of its employees, customers, partners and other third parties.  Cyber events could result in significant financial losses, legal or regulatory violations, reputational harm, and legal liability and could ultimately have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. We have had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting in the past and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements which could require us to restate financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on our stock price.. As reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, management and our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. We have remediated this material weakness, by implementing corrective measures as described in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016.. We cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The existence of a material weakness or significant deficiency could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price."
