[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. We are substantially dependent upon CNH Industrial, our primary supplier of equipment and parts inventory.. The majority of our business involves the distribution and after-market parts and servicing of equipment manufactured by CNH Industrial. In fiscal 2018, CNH Industrial supplied approximately 77% of the new equipment sold in our Agriculture segment, 65% of the new equipment sold in our Construction segment, and 69% of the new equipment sold in our International segment, and supplied a significant portion of our parts inventory. Our financial performance and future success are highly dependent on the overall reputation and success of CNH Industrial in the agricultural and construction equipment manufacturing industries, including its ability to maintain its competitive position in product innovation, product quality, and product pricing. In the event that CNH Industrial decided to sell, or reduce its commitment to, its equipment manufacturing segments or if CNH Industrial changes its distribution system to our detriment, this would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, CNH Industrial provides to us the following:. • Floorplan payable financing for the purchase of a substantial portion of our equipment inventory;. • A significant percentage of the financing used by our customers to purchase CNH Industrial equipment from us;. • Reimbursement for warranty work performed by us pursuant to CNH's product warranties;. • Incentive programs and discount programs from time to time that enable us to price our products more competitively; and. 11. Table of Contents. • Promotional and marketing activities on national, regional and local levels.. CNH Industrial may limit or decrease the availability of financing, warranty reimbursements, discounts and rebates, or other marketing incentives. Our financial performance is impacted by CNH Industrial's continued commitment to these programs, which allow us to effectively compete in our markets.. CNH Industrial may change or terminate our CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements.. We have entered into CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements under which we sell CNH Industrial's branded agricultural and construction equipment, along with after-market parts and repair services. Subject to applicable state statutes that may govern the dealer-manufacturer legal relationship, CNH Industrial may terminate our CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements immediately in certain circumstances, following written notice and cure periods for certain breaches of the agreement, and for any reason under the Case Construction agreement following 120 days written notice.  If CNH Industrial were to terminate all or any of its CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements with us, our business would be severely harmed.. Furthermore, CNH Industrial may unilaterally change its operating practices under the terms of its CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements with us to, among other things, change or authorize additional dealers in our sales and service areas, limit our product offerings, and change pricing or delivery terms. If CNH Industrial were to change the terms of our CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements or its operating practices in a manner that adversely affects us, our business would be harmed.. Our CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements impose obligations and restrictions on us.. Under our CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements, we are obligated to actively promote the sale of CNH Industrial equipment within our designated geographic areas of responsibility, fulfill the product warranty obligations of CNH Industrial (subject to CNH Industrial's payment to us of the agreed upon reimbursement), maintain adequate facilities and workforce to service the needs of our customers, and maintain equipment and parts inventories at the level deemed necessary by CNH Industrial to meet sales goals as stated in the annual business plan mutually agreed upon by us and CNH Industrial, maintain adequate working capital, and maintain stores only in authorized locations. Our CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements do not provide us with exclusive dealerships in any territory, and CNH Industrial could elect to create additional dealers in our market areas in the future, subject to restrictions imposed by state laws.. Consent of CNH Industrial is required for certain material changes in our ownership, governance or business structure, including the acquisition by any person or group of persons of 30% or more of our outstanding stock or 20% or more of our outstanding stock if the person or group is a competitor of CNH Industrial.  This requirement may have the effect of discouraging a sale or other change in control of the Company, including transactions that our stockholders might otherwise deem to be in their best interests.. The acquisition of additional CNH Industrial geographic areas of responsibility and store locations in our Agriculture, Construction and International segments requires the consent of CNH Industrial under our CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements, subject to contrary state dealer protection laws. We cannot assume that CNH Industrial will consent to any acquisition of any stores or dealerships that we may desire to make in the future.. Our CNH Dealer Agreement for Case Construction equipment prohibits us from carrying other suppliers' products (new equipment and parts) at our Case Construction stores that are competitive with CNH Industrial's products. Our CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements require us to operate separately, from our CNH Industrial dealership business, any material business activities not related to sales of CNH Industrial products or services to customers in agricultural, construction, industrial or similar markets. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing business activities that we believe are in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our agricultural equipment, parts and service sales are affected by numerous market factors outside of our control.. Farmers' capital expenditures often follow a cyclical pattern, with increased capital investments typically occurring during boom cycles spurred by high net farm income and strong farm balance sheets. Net farm income is subject to numerous external factors such as commodity prices, input costs, production yields, animal diseases and crop pests, federal crop insurance and subsidy programs. Net farm income also impacts farmland values, which causes overall farm wealth to increase or decrease, impacting farmers' sentiment to make investments in equipment. The nature of the agricultural equipment industry is such that a downturn in demand can occur suddenly, resulting in negative impact on dealers including declining revenues, reduced profit margins, excess equipment inventories, and increased interest expenses. These downturns may be prolonged, and during these periods, our revenues and profitability could be harmed. Demand for our parts and service, although not as cyclical as equipment purchases, can also be negatively affected in agricultural downturns and in regions affected by adverse weather or growing conditions which result in less acres planted or harvested.. 12. Table of Contents. Our construction equipment, parts and service sales are affected by numerous market factors outside of our control.. Our construction equipment customers primarily operate in the natural resource development, construction, transportation, agriculture, manufacturing, industrial processing and utilities industries, which industries generally are capital intensive and cyclical in nature. Many of our construction equipment customers are directly and indirectly affected by fluctuations in commodity prices in the agriculture, forestry, metals and minerals, petroleum and natural gas industries. Prolonged periods of low oil prices and other commodities may cause reduced activity in these sectors which may result in decreased demand for our products and services by our customers operating in these industries.. Construction contractors' demand for our construction equipment, parts and services is affected by economic conditions at both a global and a local level. Economic conditions that negatively affect the construction industry, such as the tightening of credit standards which affect the ability of consumers to obtain financing, could reduce our customers' demand for our construction equipment. The construction industry in many of our geographical areas has experienced periodic, and sometimes prolonged, economic down cycles, which negatively impacts sales of construction equipment in those markets. During these downturns our revenues and profitability could be harmed.. Our customers' ability to obtain affordable financing is an important factor in their purchasing decisions, and directly affects our business.. The ability to obtain affordable financing is an important part of a customer's decision to purchase agricultural or construction equipment. Tight credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets have the potential to adversely affect available credit for our customers. As net farm income has decreased in recent years, the borrowing capacity of our farmer customers may have also decreased. Moreover, in a tighter credit environment, agricultural lenders may discourage their farmer customers from making non-essential capital expenditures.. Interest rate increases may make equipment purchases less affordable for customers and, as a result, our revenue and profitability may decrease. We are unable to anticipate the timing and impact of interest rate adjustments.. Changes in governmental policies may reduce demand for agricultural and construction equipment and cause our revenue to decline.. Changes in federal, state, and international agricultural policies could adversely affect sales of agricultural equipment. Government programs and subsidies that reduce economic volatility, incentivize agricultural equipment purchases, and enhance farm income positively influence farmers' demand for agricultural equipment. To the extent that future funding or farm programs available to individual farmers are reduced, these changes could reduce demand for agricultural equipment and we could experience a decline in revenue. Changes in government spending on infrastructure projects could adversely affect the demand for construction equipment and we could experience a decline in revenue. In addition, government trade policies impacting or limiting the export or import of agricultural commodities could have a material adverse effect on the international flow of agricultural and other commodities that may cause a decrease in the demand for agricultural equipment if net farm income declines as a result.. Our financial performance is affected by general industry-wide supply of, and demand for, inventory, over which we have no control.. Over-production of equipment by one or more manufacturers, or a sudden reduction in demand for equipment, can dramatically disrupt the market and cause downward pressure on our equipment profit margins. Short-term lease programs in the agriculture and construction equipment industries have expanded significantly in North America in recent years. When this equipment comes off lease or rental fleet is sold, there may be a significant increase in the availability of late-model used equipment, which can aggravate the over-supply condition and put added pressure on our equipment sales and margins, and have an adverse effect on values of our rental fleet equipment and used equipment inventory.. Our financial performance is dependent on our ability to effectively manage new equipment, used equipment, and parts inventories.. Our agricultural and construction equipment dealership network requires substantial inventories of equipment and parts to be maintained at each store to facilitate sales to customers on a timely basis. Our equipment inventory has traditionally represented 50% or more of our total assets. We need to maintain a proper balance of new and used equipment to assure satisfactory inventory turnover and to minimize floorplan financing costs.. Our purchases of new equipment and parts are based primarily on projected demand. If actual sales are materially less than our forecasts, we would experience an over-supply of new equipment inventory. An over-supply of new equipment. 13. Table of Contents. inventory will generally cause downward pressure on our product sale prices and margins, decrease our inventory turns, and increase our floorplan financing expenses.. Our used equipment is generally acquired as \"trade-ins\" from customers in connection with equipment sales to those customers. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, each item of our used equipment inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market and, therefore, lower of cost or market adjustments to our inventory may be required from time to time. The amount of these write-downs of inventory are included in our cost of goods sold, and reduce our operating income. Our estimates of market value for our used equipment may prove to be inaccurate, given the potential for sudden change in market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Changes from our normal retail marketing channel to more aggressive marketing channels for specific pieces or categories of equipment inventory, particularly as equipment inventory ages, will generally cause a modification to our estimate of market value, which may result in a write-down of this inventory's carrying value. Reductions to our inventory's carrying value may result in a lower profit margin than previously expected. Further, pricing for and sales of used equipment can be significantly affected by the limited market for certain types of used equipment.. Our international operations expose us to additional risks.. We are currently operating dealership locations in Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia and Ukraine. In fiscal 2018, total International segment revenues were 17.4% of our consolidated total revenue. As of January 31, 2018, total International segment assets were 16.6% of our consolidated total assets.. Our operations in international markets subject us to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory environments and economic conditions present in the countries in which we operate. Risks inherent in our international operations include:. • difficulties in implementing our business model in foreign markets;. • costs and diversion of domestic management attention related to oversight of international operations;. • unexpected adverse changes in export duties, quotas and tariffs and difficulties in obtaining import licenses;. • cyclicality of demand for agricultural equipment, based on availability of European Union government subsidy programs and tax incentives;. • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements;. • compliance with a variety of tax regulations, foreign laws and regulations;. • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other U.S. laws that apply to the international operations of U.S. companies which may be difficult and costly to implement and monitor, can create competitive disadvantages if our competitors are not subject to such laws, and which, if violated, may result in substantial financial and reputational harm;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates to which we are exposed may adversely affect the results of our operations, the value of our foreign assets and liabilities and our cash flows;. • the laws of the European countries in which we operate, unlike the U.S., do not include specific dealer protection laws and, therefore, we may be more susceptible to actions of suppliers that are adverse to our interests such as termination of our dealer agreements for any reason or installing additional dealers in our designated territories; and. • political or economic changes or instability.. An escalation of political tensions or economic instability in Ukraine could create disruption in our Ukrainian operations. Previous periods of political tension and economic instability caused liquidity problems for our customers, which negatively impacted their purchasing decisions for our products and services, limited our ability to maintain working capital loans or increased the cost of maintaining such loans, and as a result of imposed currency exchange controls, restricted our ability to manage our cash held in Ukraine and our investment in our Ukrainian business. Our operations in Ukraine are subject to the risks of further devaluation of the local currency, increased interest rates and increased inflation.. These factors, in addition to others that we have not anticipated, may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Floorplan financing for our equipment inventory may not be available on favorable terms, which would adversely affect our growth and results of operations.. We generally purchase our equipment with the assistance of floorplan payable financing programs through CNH Industrial Capital and our other credit facilities. In the event that our available financing sources are insufficient to satisfy our. 14. Table of Contents. future requirements, we would be required to obtain financing from other sources. We may not be able to obtain this additional or alternative financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. To the extent that this financing cannot be obtained on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our growth and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Our level of indebtedness could limit our financial and operational flexibility.. As of January 31, 2018, our indebtedness included floorplan payable financing, long-term debt, and Senior Convertible Notes. In addition, we have obligations under our lease agreements for our store locations and corporate headquarters.. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes.. We expect to use cash flow from operations and borrowings under our credit facilities to fund our operations, debt service and capital expenditures. However, our ability to make these payments depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which may be uncontrollable.. Our Wells Fargo Credit Agreement, as amended, matures on October 28, 2020 provided that certain financial tests are satisfied as of February 1, 2019, a date that is three-months prior to the scheduled maturity date of the Company's Senior Convertible Notes. The financial tests require (i) the Company's fixed charge coverage ratio for the 12 month period ending December 31, 2018 is at least 1.1 to 1.0 and (ii) a liquidity test, requiring that the Company have unrestricted cash on hand plus excess borrowing availability under the Wells Fargo Credit Agreement (on a pro-forma basis reflecting the Company's repayment in full of its outstanding Senior Convertible Notes) in an amount that is greater than 20% of the maximum credit amount under the facility.  If both financial tests are not satisfied on February 1, 2019, the Credit Agreement will immediately mature and all amounts outstanding become immediately due and payable in full.. The Company anticipates, based on our current modeling projections, that we will satisfy these financial tests on February 1, 2019. In addition, should the Credit Agreement mature on February 1, 2019, the Company expects to have sufficient available cash and available borrowings under other credit facilities to repay any amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement. However, our ability to meet the financial tests or to repay any amounts outstanding should the Wells Fargo Credit Agreement become due and payable depends on our future financial performance and the available borrowing capacity under our various other credit facilities.. The credit agreements governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to engage in certain corporate and financial transactions, and require us to satisfy financial covenants.. The credit agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to:. • incur more debt;. • make investments;. • create liens;. • merge or consolidate;. • transfer and sell assets;. • pay dividends or repurchase stock; and. • issue equity instruments.. Our credit facilities with CNH Industrial Capital and DLL Finance require us to satisfy a net leverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio on an ongoing basis, measured at the end of each fiscal quarter. Under our Wells Fargo Credit Agreement, in the event that excess availability plus eligible cash collateral is less than 15% of the total facility of $200.0 million, we are required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.1 to 1.0. Our ability to borrow under these credit agreements depends upon compliance with these financial covenants.. Our failure to satisfy any covenant, absent a waiver or amendment, would cause us to be in default under our credit facilities and would enable our lenders to accelerate payment of the outstanding indebtedness. Moreover, an event of default accompanied by a demand for accelerated payment under any of our credit facilities would also constitute a default under our. 15. Table of Contents. Senior Convertible Notes. Each of our credit agreements include cross-default provisions which state that certain types of defaults under any other indebtedness agreement will also constitute a default under that credit agreement. If an event of default occurred, and the lender demanded accelerated payment, we may not be able to satisfy such a pay-off request, whether through internal funds or a new financing.. Our variable rate indebtedness exposes us to interest rate risk.. A substantial portion of our floorplan and working capital borrowings, including the credit facilities with CNH Industrial Capital, Wells Fargo, DLL Finance, and our international floorplan facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. As such, our results of operations are sensitive to movements in interest rates. There are many economic factors outside our control that have in the past and may, in the future, impact rates of interest including publicly announced indices that underlie the interest obligations related to a certain portion of our debt. Factors that impact interest rates include governmental monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, international instability impacting domestic and foreign financial markets. Any increases in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations.. Our outstanding Senior Convertible Notes may cause dilution to our existing stockholders and may negatively affect our financial position and liquidity.. On April 24, 2012, we issued $150 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Senior Convertible Notes due May 2019 (the \"Senior Convertible Notes\") pursuant to an indenture between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (the \"Indenture\"). The Senior Convertible Notes are convertible into common stock at the option of the holders under certain conditions. Upon conversion, we will pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of converted notes and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, at our election, for any conversion obligation in excess thereof. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, the holders of the Senior Convertible Notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes for cash at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest.. The Indenture provides for customary events of default, including, but not limited to, cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness of us and our subsidiaries. In the case of an event of default, all outstanding Senior Convertible Notes may become due and payable immediately without further action or notice.. The Senior Convertible Notes are initially convertible into the Company's common stock at a conversion rate of 23.1626 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of convertible notes, with an initial effective conversion price of $43.17 per share of common stock.. If we issue shares of our common stock to satisfy conversion obligations under the Senior Convertible Notes, our existing stockholders will experience dilution of their holdings of our stock. Repayment of the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash and, if applicable, satisfaction of our conversion obligations in cash may have a significant negative effect on our available capital resources and liquidity which may require us to borrow additional amounts pursuant to terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Senior Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal balance of the Senior Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The Senior Convertible Notes mature on May 1, 2019, unless earlier purchased by the Company, redeemed or converted.  As of January 31, 2018, the Company has repurchased an aggregate of $84.4 million face value of its Senior Convertible Notes. As a result, as of January 31, 2018, the remaining face value amount outstanding of Senior Convertible Notes is $65.6 million. We expect to use cash flow from operations and borrowings under other credit facilities to repay our Senior Convertible Notes, whether through continued repurchases prior to maturity or at the maturity date. However, our ability to make such payments depends on our future financial performance and the available borrowing capacity under our various other credit facilities.. The agricultural and construction equipment industries are highly seasonal, which can cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flow.. The agricultural and construction equipment businesses are highly seasonal, which causes our quarterly results to fluctuate during the year. Farmers generally purchase agricultural equipment and service work in preparation for, or in conjunction with, the spring planting and fall harvesting seasons. Construction equipment customers' purchases of equipment and service work, as well as rental of equipment, are also seasonal in our stores located in colder climates where construction work slows significantly in the winter months. In addition, the fourth quarter typically is a significant period for equipment sales in the U.S. because of our customers' year-end tax planning considerations, the timing of dealer incentives and the increase in availability of farmers' funds from completed harvests and construction customers' funds from completed projects.. 16. Table of Contents. Also, numerous external factors such as credit markets, commodity prices, weather conditions, and other circumstances may disrupt normal purchasing practices and customers' sentiment, further contributing to the seasonal fluctuations.. Weather conditions may negatively impact the agricultural and construction equipment markets and affect our financial results.. Weather conditions, particularly severe floods and droughts, can have a significant adverse effect on regional agricultural and construction markets. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by adverse weather conditions.. Our rental operations subject us to risks including increased maintenance costs if our rental fleet ages, increased costs of new replacement equipment we use in our fleet, and losses upon disposition of rental fleet units.. Our rental fleet margins are materially impacted by utilization of fleet assets, which is seasonal and can fluctuate materially due to weather and economic factors. If our rental equipment ages, the costs of maintaining that equipment, if not replaced within a certain period of time, will likely increase. The cost of new equipment for use in our rental fleet could also increase due to increased material costs for our suppliers or other factors beyond our control. Furthermore, changes in customer demand could cause certain of our existing equipment to become obsolete and require us to purchase new equipment at increased costs.. We include in operating income the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of an item of rental equipment sold. The market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. The market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including:. • market prices for like equipment;. • hours and condition of the equipment;. • time of year that the equipment is sold;. • the supply of used equipment on the market; and. • general economic conditions.. Any significant decline in the selling prices for used rental equipment, or increased costs resulting from our rental operations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and cash flow.. Our industry is highly competitive.. The agricultural and construction equipment distribution (including parts and service) and rental industries are highly competitive and fragmented, with large numbers of companies operating on a regional or local basis. Historically, our competitors have competed aggressively on the basis of pricing or inventory availability, resulting in decreased margins on our sales to the extent we choose to match our competitors' pricing. To the extent we choose not to match or remain within a reasonable competitive distance from our competitors' pricing, we may lose sales volume and market share. In addition, to the extent CNH Industrial's competitors (such as Deere, Caterpillar, Komatsu, Volvo, and AGCO) provide their dealers with more innovative or higher quality products, better customer financing, or have more effective marketing programs, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, E-commerce companies selling parts have negatively impacted dealers' parts sales and margins, and it is not expected that this competitive pressure will lessen in the future.. If our acquisition plans are unsuccessful, we may not achieve our planned long-term revenue growth.. Our ability to grow through the acquisition of additional CNH Industrial geographic areas of responsibility and store locations or other businesses will be dependent upon the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable values, our ability to compete effectively for available acquisition candidates and the availability of capital to complete the acquisitions. We may not successfully identify suitable targets, or if we do, we may not be able to close the transactions, or if we close the transactions, they may not be profitable. In addition, CNH Industrial's consent is required for the acquisition of any CNH Industrial dealership, and the consent of our lenders may be required for certain acquisitions. CNH Industrial typically evaluates management and performance and capitalization of a prospective acquirer in determining whether to consent to the sale of a CNH Industrial dealership. There can be no assurance that CNH Industrial or our lenders will consent to any or all acquisitions of dealerships that we may propose to acquire.. 17. Table of Contents. Our acquisitions may not be successful.. There are risks associated with acquisitions of new dealerships. These risks include incurring significantly higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses; failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired dealerships; disrupting our ongoing business; diluting the effectiveness of our management; failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; and impairing relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. To the extent we do not successfully avoid or overcome the risks or problems related to acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Future acquisitions also may have a significant impact on our financial position and capital needs, and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and yearly results of operations. Acquisitions could include significant goodwill and intangible assets, which may result in future impairment charges that would reduce our stated earnings.. We are exposed to customer credit risks.. We extend credit to our customers for parts and service work, rental charges, and also for some equipment sales in our domestic and international operations. If we are unable to manage credit risk issues adequately, or if a large number of customers should have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses could increase above historical levels and our operating results would be adversely affected. Delinquencies and credit losses generally would be expected to increase if there was a worsening of economic conditions.. Our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel.. Our success in executing our operating and strategic plans depends on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees, including the managers of our field operations and our country managers in our International operations. The failure to attract and retain members of our management team and key employees will harm us.. Selling and renting agricultural and construction equipment, selling parts, and providing repair services subject us to liability risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and reputation.. Products sold, rented or serviced by us may expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or property damage claims that arise from the use of such products. Our commercial liability insurance may not be adequate to cover significant product liability claims, or we may not be able to secure such insurance on economically reasonable terms. An uninsured or partially insured claim for which indemnification is not provided could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Furthermore, if any significant claims are made against us or against CNH Industrial or any of our other suppliers, our business may be adversely affected by any related negative publicity.. Any disruption to or failure of our information systems may negatively affect our ability to monitor and control our operations.. Our business processes, including marketing of equipment and support services, inventory and logistics, and finance largely depend upon the integrity of our information systems. Any disruptions to our information systems or the failure of such systems to operate as expected may adversely affect our operating results by limiting our ability to effectively monitor and control our operations.. Security breaches, cyberattacks or other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business/operating margins, revenues and competitive position."
