[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. Product Marketplace and Operational Risks:. The insurance industry is a regulated industry, populated by many public and private companies. We operate in the life and health insurance sectors of the industry, each of which has its own set of risks.. The development and maintenance of our various distribution systems are critical to growth in product sales and profits. Development and retention of producing agents are critical to support sales growth in this market because our insurance sales are primarily made to individuals rather than groups and the face amounts of the life insurance policies sold are typically lower than those of policies sold in higher-income markets. Compensation that is competitive with other career opportunities and motivates producing agents to increase sales is also critical. In Globe Life Direct Response, continuous development of new methods of reaching the consumer and cost efficiency are key. Less than optimum execution of these strategies may result in reduced sales and profits.. Economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We primarily serve the middle-income market for individual protection life and health insurance and, as a result, we compete directly with alternative uses of a customer's disposable income. If disposable income within this demographic group declines or the use of disposable income becomes more limited as a result of a significant, sustained economic downturn or otherwise, then new sales of our insurance products could become more challenging, and our policyholders may choose to defer or stop payment of insurance premiums altogether. Economic conditions could also impact our investment portfolio as discussed under Investment Risks below.. Variations in expected-to-actual rates of mortality, morbidity and persistency could materially negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We establish policy reserves to pay future policyholder benefits and claims. These reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial estimates based on models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain. The reserve computations involve the exercise of significant judgment with respect to levels of mortality, morbidity and persistency, as well as the timing of premium and benefit payments. Even though our actuaries continually test expected-to-actual results, actual levels that occur may differ significantly from the levels assumed when premium rates were first set. Accordingly, we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts of claims or benefits that we will pay or the timing of such payments. Significant adverse variations from the levels assumed when policy reserves are first set could result in increased policy obligations and negatively affect our profit margins and income.. A ratings downgrade or other negative action by a rating agency could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various rating agencies review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including our insurance subsidiaries, and publish their financial strength ratings as indicators of an insurer's ability to meet policyholder and contract holder obligations. These ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in our insurance products. A downgrade or other negative action by a rating agency with respect to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could negatively affect us in many ways, including: limiting or restricting the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us and adversely affecting our ability to sell insurance products through our independent agencies.. Rating agencies also publish credit ratings for us. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer's ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner. These ratings are important to our overall ability to access certain types of capital. Actual or anticipated downgrades in our credit ratings, or an announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could potentially have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations by limiting our access to capital markets, increasing the cost of debt, or impairing our ability to raise capital to refinance maturing debt obligations, thereby potentially limiting our capacity to support growth at our insurance subsidiaries or making it more difficult to maintain or improve the current financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries.. Ratings reflect only the rating agency's views and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating agency, general economic conditions and circumstances outside the rated company's control. In addition, rating agencies use various models and formulas to assess the strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered the models. Changes to the models. 6. TMK 2017 FORM 10-K. Table of Contents. could impact the rating agencies' judgment of the rating to be assigned to the rated company. There can be no assurance that our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies. We cannot predict what actions the rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of the rating agencies which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Life Insurance Marketplace Risk:. Our life products are sold in selected niche markets. We are at risk should any of these markets diminish. We have several life distribution channels that focus on distinct market niches, two of which are labor unions and sales via Globe Life Direct Response solicitation. Deterioration of our relationships with organized labor or adverse changes in the public's receptivity to direct response marketing initiatives could negatively affect our life insurance business.. Health Insurance Marketplace Risks:. The health insurance market is subject to substantial regulatory scrutiny. Regulatory changes could impact our Medicare Supplement and other supplemental health businesses. The nature and timing of any such changes cannot be predicted and could have a material adverse effect on our health insurance business.. Competition in the health insurance market can be significant. Sales of our health insurance products are subject to competition from other health insurance companies and alternative healthcare providers, such as those that provide alternatives to traditional Medicare to seniors. In addition, some insurers may be willing to significantly reduce their profit margins or under price new sales in order to gain market share. We choose not to compete for market share based on these terms. Accordingly, changes in the competitive landscape, including the pricing strategies employed by our competitors, could negatively impact the future sales of our health insurance products.. Obtaining timely and appropriate premium rate increases for certain health insurance policies is critical. A significant percentage of the health insurance premiums that our insurance subsidiaries earn is from Medicare Supplement insurance. Medicare Supplement insurance, including conditions under which the premiums for such policies may be increased, is highly regulated at both the state and federal level. As a result, it is characterized by lower profit margins than life insurance and requires strict administrative discipline and economies of scale for success. Because Medicare Supplement policies are coordinated with the federal Medicare program, which experiences health care inflation every year, annual premium rate increases for the Medicare Supplement policies are typically necessary. Obtaining timely rate increases is of critical importance to our success in this market. Accordingly, the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to obtain approval of premium rate increases in a timely manner from state insurance regulatory authorities in the future could adversely impact their profitability and thus our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Information Security and Technology Risks:. The failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems at the Company could compromise secure data thereby adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.  Our business operations are highly dependent upon information technology systems to provide efficient and resilient business operations. Malicious actors, employee errors or disasters affecting these information systems could impair our business operations, regulatory compliance and financial condition. To the extent our information systems may be breached by malicious actors, employee malfeasance or technological attacks, an attacker could circumvent security measures in order to access, alter or delete customer or proprietary information from our systems or to render our systems unavailable for business use. Additionally, we may not become aware of sophisticated cyber attacks for some time after they occur, thereby increasing the Company's exposure. We may have to incur significant costs to address or remediate interruptions, threats and vulnerabilities in our information and technology systems and to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements related thereto. These risks are heightened as the frequency and sophistication of cyber-attacks increase.. Employee errors in the handling of our information or technology systems may inadvertently result in unauthorized access to customer or proprietary information, or an inability to use our information technology systems to efficiently support business operations.. 7. TMK 2017 FORM 10-K. Table of Contents. Additionally, we anticipate more frequent and sophisticated cyber-attacks along with more impactful regulatory oversight models. In addition, an increasing number of states require that customers be notified of unauthorized access, use or disclosure of their confidential information. Any such breach of confidential information could damage our reputation in the marketplace, deter potential customers from purchasing our products, result in the loss of existing customers, subject us to significant civil and criminal liability, or require us to incur significant technical, legal or other expenses.. In the event of a disaster, such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a blackout, or a terrorist attack or war, our computer systems may be inaccessible to our employees, agents or customers for a period of time. A disaster or natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, terrorist attack or war may make our information systems unavailable to support business operations for a period of time, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Even if our employees are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled or destroyed and existing contingency plans cannot function as designed.. Reputational Risk:. Damage to the reputation of Torchmark or its subsidiaries could affect our ability to conduct business. Negative publicity through traditional media, internet, social media and other public forums could damage our reputation and adversely impact our agent recruiting efforts, the ability to market our products and the persistency of our block of inforce policies. As discussed above in Information Security and Technology Risks, the Company could be subjected to adverse publicity as a result of a significant security breach.. Investment Risks:. Our investments are subject to market and credit risks. Significant downgrades, delinquencies and defaults in our investment portfolio could potentially result in lower net investment income and increased realized and unrealized investment losses. Our invested assets are subject to the customary risks of defaults, downgrades and changes in market values. Our investment portfolio consists predominately of fixed maturity and short-term investments issued by corporations, where we are exposed to the risk that individual corporate issuers will not have the ability to make required interest or principal payments on an investment. The concentration of these investments in any particular issuer, industry, group of related industries or geographic areas increases this risk. Factors that may affect both market and credit risks include interest rate levels (consisting of both treasury rate and credit spread), financial market performance, disruptions in credit markets, general economic conditions, legislative changes, particular circumstances affecting the businesses or industries of each issuer and other factors beyond our control.. Additionally, as the majority of our investments are longer-term fixed maturities that we typically hold until maturity, significant increases in interest rates or inactive markets associated with market downturns could cause a material temporary decline in the fair value of our fixed investment portfolio, even with regard to performing assets. These declines could cause a material increase in unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. Significant unrealized losses can substantially reduce our capital position and shareholders' equity. It is possible that our investment in certain of these securities with unrealized losses may experience a default event and that a portion or all of that unrealized loss may not be recoverable. In that case, the unrealized loss will be realized, at which point we would take an impairment charge, reducing our net income.. We cannot be assured that any particular issuer, regardless of industry, will be able to make required interest and principal payments on a timely basis or at all. Significant downgrades of issuers could negatively impact our risk-based capital ratios, leading to potential downgrades by our rating agencies, potential reduction in future dividend capacity, and/or higher financing costs at the holding company should additional statutory capital be required.. Changes in interest rates could negatively affect income. Declines in interest rates expose insurance companies to the risk that they will fail to earn the level of interest on investments assumed in pricing products and in setting discount rates used to calculate the net policy liabilities. While we attempt to manage our investments to earn an excess investment income spread, we can give no assurance that a significant and persistent decline in interest rates will not materially affect such spreads. Significant decreases in interest rates could result in calls by issuers of investments, where such features are available to issuers. These calls could result in a decline in our investment income, as reinvestment of the proceeds would likely be at lower rates.. 8. TMK 2017 FORM 10-K. Table of Contents. Increases in interest rates could cause the fair value of securities within our bond portfolio to decline. A rise in interest rates could also result in certain policyholders surrendering their annuity policies for cash thereby potentially requiring our insurance subsidiaries to liquidate bonds if other sources of liquidity are not available to meet their obligations. In such a case, realized losses could result from such sales and could adversely affect our statutory income and results of operations.. Liquidity Risks:. Our ability to fund operations is substantially dependent on funds available, primarily dividends, from our insurance subsidiaries. As a holding company with no direct operations, our principal asset is the capital stock of our insurance subsidiaries, which periodically declare and distribute dividends on their capital stock. Moreover, our liquidity, including our ability to pay our operating expenses and to make principal and interest payments on debt securities or other indebtedness owed by us, as well as our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or any preferred stock, depends significantly upon the surplus and earnings of our insurance subsidiaries and the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us. Other sources of liquidity include a variety of short-term and long-term instruments, including our credit facility, commercial paper, long-term debt, intercompany financing and reinsurance.. The principal sources of our insurance subsidiaries' liquidity are insurance premiums, as well as investment income, maturities, repayments and other cash flow from our investment portfolio. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various state statutory and regulatory restrictions applicable to insurance companies that limit the amount of cash dividends, loans and advances that those subsidiaries may pay to us, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds. For example, in the states where our companies are domiciled, an insurance company generally may pay dividends only out of its unassigned surplus as reflected in its statutory financial statements filed in that state. Additionally, dividends paid by insurance subsidiaries are restricted based on regulations by their states of domicile. Accordingly, impairments in assets or a disruption in our insurance subsidiaries' operations that reduces their capital or cash flow could limit or disallow payment of dividends to us, a principal source of our cash flow.. We can give no assurance that more stringent restrictions will not be adopted from time to time by states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which could, under certain circumstances, significantly reduce dividends or other amounts paid to us by our subsidiaries. Although we do not anticipate changes, changes in laws or regulations could constrain the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us in sufficient amounts and at times necessary to meet our debt obligations and corporate expenses. Additionally, if our insurance subsidiaries were unable to obtain approval of our health premium rate increases in a timely manner from state insurance regulatory authorities, their profitability, and their ability to declare and distribute dividends to us could be negatively impacted. Limitations on the flow of dividends from our subsidiaries could limit our ability to service and repay debt or to pay dividends on our capital stock.. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs or access capital, as well as affect our cost of capital. Should interest rates rise in the future, the interest rate on any new debt obligation we may issue could increase and our net income could be reduced. In addition, if the credit and capital markets were to experience significant disruption, uncertainty and instability, these conditions could adversely affect our access to capital. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace maturing liabilities (in a timely manner or at all) and/or access the capital necessary to grow our business.. In the unlikely event that current sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing or raise capital. The availability and cost of additional financing or capital will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit or capital, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the insurance industry and our credit ratings and credit capacity. Additionally, customers, lenders or investors could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects if we were to incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity were to decrease due to a market downturn. Our access to funds may also be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than we prefer or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. As a result, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially negatively affected.. 9. TMK 2017 FORM 10-K. Table of Contents. Regulatory Risks:. Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and growth. Insurance companies, including our insurance subsidiaries, are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the states in which they do business. The primary purpose of this supervision and regulation is the protection of our policyholders, not our investors. State agencies have broad administrative power over numerous aspects of our business, including premium rates and other terms and conditions that we can include in the insurance policies offered by our insurance subsidiaries, marketing practices, advertising, licensing of agents, policy forms, capital adequacy, solvency, reserves and permitted investments. Also, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or initiate procedures to revoke licenses or approvals. The insurance laws, regulations and policies currently affecting Torchmark and its insurance subsidiaries may change at any time, possibly having an adverse effect on our business. Should these regulatory changes occur, we may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals, and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority's interpretation of such laws and regulations, which may change from time to time. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities and/or impose substantial fines.. We cannot predict the timing or substance of any future regulatory initiatives. In recent years, there has been increased scrutiny of insurance companies, including our insurance subsidiaries, by insurance regulatory authorities, which has included more extensive examinations and more detailed review of disclosure documents. These regulatory authorities may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. Such actions could result in substantial fines, penalties and/or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, changes in the overall legal or regulatory environment may cause us to change our views regarding the actions that we need to take from a legal or regulatory risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow, impact regulatory capital requirements, or otherwise negatively impact our profitability.. Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. However, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Record and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 established a Federal Insurance Office (FIO), charged with monitoring systemic risk exposure in the insurance industry, and a Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), which serves to identify and respond to risks and emerging threats to U.S. financial systems. A Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight (CCIIO), established under the Department of Health and Human Services, is charged with overseeing implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The creation of these insurance regulatory offices may indicate that the federal government intends to play a larger role in the direct oversight or regulation of the insurance industry. We cannot predict what impact, if any, the ongoing operations of the FIO, FSOC and CCIIO, as well as any other proposals or executive action for federal oversight or regulation of insurance could have on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could increase our tax costs or negatively impact our insurance subsidiaries' capital. Changes to the Internal Revenue Code, administrative rulings, or court decisions affecting the insurance industry, including the products insurers offer, could increase our effective tax rate and lower our net income, adversely impact our insurance subsidiaries' capital, or limit the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to sell certain of their products.. Changes in accounting standards issued by accounting standard-setting bodies may affect our financial statements, reduce our reported profitability and change the timing of profit recognition. Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP and accounting practices as promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' statutory accounting practices (NAIC SAP), which principles are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or guidance issued by recognized authoritative bodies. It is possible that future accounting standards that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, standard setters have a full agenda of unissued topics under review at any given time, many of which have the potential to negatively impact our profitability.. 10. TMK 2017 FORM 10-K. Table of Contents. Non-compliance with restrictions on customer and consumer privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive customer and consumer information maintain its confidentiality, could materially adversely affect our reputation and business operations. The collection, maintenance, use, disclosure and disposal of individually identifiable data by our insurance subsidiaries are regulated at the international, federal and state levels. These laws and rules are subject to change by legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation. Various state laws address the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data to the extent they are more restrictive than those contained in the privacy and security provisions in the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA), the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), and in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). HIPAA also requires that we impose privacy and security requirements on our business associates (as that term is defined in the HIPAA regulations). Noncompliance with any privacy laws or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information, whether by us or by one of our business associates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations and could include material fines and penalties, various forms of damages, consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices, adverse actions against our licenses to do business and injunctive relief.. Litigation Risk:. Litigation could result in substantial judgments against us or our subsidiaries. We are, and in the future may be, subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business. Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants, and, in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. Members of our management and legal teams review litigation on a quarterly and annual basis. However, the outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. A number of civil jury verdicts have been returned against insurers in the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries do business involving the insurers' sales practices, alleged agent misconduct, failure to properly supervise agents and other matters. These lawsuits have resulted in the award of substantial judgments against insurers that are disproportionate to the actual damages, including material amounts of punitive damages. In some states in which we operate, juries have substantial discretion in awarding punitive damages. This discretion creates the potential for unpredictable material adverse judgments in any given punitive damages suit.. Our pending and future litigation could adversely affect us because of the costs of defending these cases, the costs of settlement or judgments against us, or changes in our operations that could result from litigation. Substantial legal liability in these or future legal actions could also have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant harm to our reputation, which, in turn, could materially harm our business and our business prospects.. Actual or alleged misclassification of independent contractors at our insurance subsidiaries could result in adverse legal, tax or financial consequences. A significant portion of our sales agents are independent contractors. Although we believe we have properly classified such individuals, a risk nevertheless exists that a court, the IRS or other authority will take the position that those sales agents are employees. The laws and regulations that govern the status and classification of workers are subject to change and differing interpretations, which we cannot predict.. If there is an adverse determination regarding the classification of some or all of the independent contractors at our insurance subsidiaries by a court or governmental agency, we could incur significant costs with respect to payroll tax liabilities, employee benefits, wage payments, fines, judgments and/or legal settlements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any resulting reclassification could necessitate significant changes in our affected insurance subsidiaries' business models.. Catastrophic Event Risk:. Our business is subject to the risk of the occurrence of catastrophic events. Our insurance policies are issued to and held by a large number of policyholders throughout the United States in relatively low-face amounts. Accordingly, it is unlikely that a large portion of our policyholder base would be affected by a single natural disaster. However, our insurance operations could be exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality or morbidity caused by events such as a pandemic, hurricane, earthquake, or man-made catastrophes, including acts of terrorism or war, which may produce significant claims in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition.. 11. TMK 2017 FORM 10-K. Table of Contents"
