[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks as well as the other information included in this report, including \"Selected Financial Data,\" \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our financial statements and related notes. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, the selected risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We have a substantial amount of debt which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the debt instruments.. As of December 31, 2017, the book value of our debt was approximately $2.5 billion consisting of outstanding borrowings under Trans Union LLC's senior secured credit facility. We may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness may:. • make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including with respect to our indebtedness;. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;. • limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;. • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments;. • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including Trans Union LLC's senior secured credit facility, are at variable rates of interest;. • limit our ability to pay dividends;. • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our less-leveraged competitors; and. • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.. In addition, the credit agreement governing Trans Union LLC's senior secured credit facility contains restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our debt.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur additional indebtedness. This could further the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the credit agreement governing our debt limit, but do not prohibit, us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we incur any additional debt, the priority of that debt may impact the ability of existing debt holders to share ratably in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of us, subject to collateral arrangements. These restrictions will also not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. We also have the ability to request incremental loans up to the greater of $675.0 million and 100% of consolidated EBITDA on the same terms under the existing senior secured credit facility, and may incur additional incremental loans so long as the senior secured net leverage ratio does not exceed 4.25 to 1.0, subject to certain additional conditions and commitments by existing or new lenders to fund any additional borrowings. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments due on our debt obligations or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic, industry and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control as discussed above. Our total scheduled principal repayments of debt made in 2017 and 2016 were $32.5 million and $49.3 million, respectively. Our total interest expense for 2017 and 2016 was $87.6 million and $85.5 million, respectively. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to implement any such. 18. alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The credit agreement governing Trans Union LLC's senior secured credit facility restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. In addition, under the covenants of the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, TransUnion Intermediate is restricted from making certain payments, including dividend payments to TransUnion, subject to certain exceptions.. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations.. If we cannot make our scheduled debt payments, we will be in default and all outstanding principal and interest on our debt may be declared due and payable, the lenders under Trans Union LLC's senior secured credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, Trans Union LLC's secured lenders (including the lenders under Trans Union LLC's senior secured credit facility) could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Our revenues are concentrated in the U.S. consumer credit and financial services industries. When these industries or the broader financial markets experience a downturn, demand for our services and revenues may be adversely affected.. Our largest customers, and therefore our business and revenues, depend on favorable macroeconomic conditions and are impacted by the availability of credit, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, employment levels, consumer confidence and housing demand. In addition, a significant amount of our revenues are concentrated among certain customers and in distinct geographic regions, particularly in the United States. Our product offerings are also concentrated by varying degrees across different industries, particularly the financial services and insurance industries in the United States where we derived approximately 70.9% of our USIS segment revenues in 2017. Our customer base suffers when financial markets experience volatility, illiquidity and disruption, which has occurred in the past and which could reoccur, and the potential for increased and continuing disruptions going forward, present considerable risks to our business and revenue. Changes in the economy have resulted, and may continue to result, in fluctuations in volumes, pricing and operating margins for our services. If businesses in these industries experience economic hardship, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate future revenue growth. In addition, if consumer demand for financial services and products and the number of credit applications decrease, the demand for our services could also be materially reduced. These types of disruptions could lead to a decline in the volumes of services we provide our customers and could negatively impact our revenue and results of operations.. We are subject to significant competition in the markets in which we operate and we may face significant competition in the new markets that we plan to enter.. The market for our services is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors, which could impair our ability to sell our services. We compete on the basis of differentiated solutions, datasets, analytics capabilities, ease of integration with our customers' technology, stability of services, customer relationships, innovation and price. Our regional and global competitors vary in size, financial and technical capability, and in the scope of the products and services they offer. Some of our competitors may be better positioned to develop, promote and sell their products. Larger competitors may benefit from greater cost efficiencies and may be able to win business simply based on pricing. We consistently face downward pressure on the pricing of our products, which could result in reduced prices for certain products, or a loss of market share. Our competitors may also be able to respond to opportunities before we do, by taking advantage of new technologies, changes in customer requirements or market trends.. Our Consumer Interactive segment experiences competition from emerging companies. For example, prior to 2008, Equifax and Experian were our top competitors for direct-to-consumer credit services, such as credit reports and identity theft protection services. In the past few years, there has been an influx of other companies offering similar services, some of whom leverage the free services mandated by law to be provided by nationwide credit reporting agencies. These developments have resulted in increased competition.. Many of our competitors have extensive customer relationships, including relationships with our current and potential customers. New competitors, or alliances among competitors, may emerge and gain significant market share. Existing or new competitors may develop products and services that are superior to ours or that achieve greater market acceptance. If we are unable to respond to changes in customer requirements as quickly and effectively as our competition, our ability to expand our business and sell our services may be adversely affected.. Our competitors may be able to sell services at lower prices than us, individually or as part of integrated suites of several related services. This ability may cause our customers to purchase from our competitors rather than from us. Price reductions by our competitors could also negatively impact our operating margins or harm our ability to obtain new long-term contracts or renewals. 19. of existing contracts on favorable terms. Additionally, some of our customers may develop products of their own that replace the products they currently purchase from us, which would result in lower revenue.. We also expect that there will be significant competition in the new markets that we plan to enter. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. If we fail to successfully compete, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our relationships with key long-term customers may be materially diminished or terminated.. We have long-standing relationships with a number of our customers, many of whom could unilaterally terminate their relationship with us or materially reduce the amount of business they conduct with us at any time. Our customer agreements relating to our core credit reporting service offered through our USIS segment are terminable upon advance written notice (typically ranging from 30 days to six months) by either us or the customer, which provides our customers with the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to award more business to our competitors.. We also provide our services to business partners who may combine them with their own or other branded services to be offered as a bundle to consumers, governmental agencies and businesses in support of fraud or credit protection, credit monitoring, identity authentication, insurance or credit underwriting, and collections. Some of these partners are the largest providers of credit information or identity protection services to the U.S. consumer market.. Market competition, business requirements, financial condition and consolidation through mergers or acquisitions, could adversely affect our ability to continue or expand our relationships with our customers and business partners. There is no guarantee that we will be able to retain or renew existing agreements, maintain relationships with any of our customers or business partners on acceptable terms or at all, or collect amounts owed to us from insolvent customers or business partners. The loss of one or more of our major customers or business partners could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Data security and integrity are critically important to our business, and breaches of security, unauthorized access to or disclosure of confidential information, disruption, including distributed denial of service (\"DDoS\") attacks or the perception that confidential information is not secure, could result in a material loss of business, substantial legal liability or significant harm to our reputation.. We own and host a large amount of sensitive and confidential consumer information including financial information, personally identifiable information and protected health information. This data is often accessed through secure transmissions over public and private networks, including the internet. Despite our physical security, implementation of technical controls and contractual precautions to identify, detect and prevent the unauthorized access to and alteration and disclosure of our data, we cannot assure you that systems that access our services and databases will not be compromised or disrupted, whether as a result of criminal conduct, DDoS attacks or other advanced persistent attacks by malicious actors, including hackers, nation states and criminals, breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. We must continually monitor and develop our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have a security impact. Several recent, highly publicized data incidents and DDoS attacks, including at Equifax, have heightened consumer awareness of this issue and may embolden individuals or groups to target our systems. Unauthorized disclosure, loss or corruption of our data or inability of our customers to access our systems could disrupt our operations, subject us to substantial legal liability, result in a material loss of business and significantly harm our reputation.. As a nationwide consumer credit reporting company in the United States and a global provider of risk and information solutions, we collect, store and transmit files on over one billion consumers. These files may contain non-public personal information, public health information and other information, and we have implemented technical and physical security policies, procedures and systems we believe are reasonably designed to protect this information from unauthorized access. However, due to the sensitive nature of the information we collect, store and transmit, it is not unusual for efforts to occur (coordinated or otherwise) by unauthorized persons to attempt to obtain access to our systems or data, or to inhibit our ability to deliver products or services to a consumer or a business customer.. Due to concerns about data security and integrity, a growing number of legislative and regulatory bodies have adopted consumer notification and other requirements in the event that consumer information is accessed by unauthorized persons and additional regulations regarding the use, access, accuracy and security of such data are possible. In the United States, federal and state laws provide for over 40 disparate notification regimes, all of which we are subject to. Complying with such numerous and complex regulations in the event of unauthorized access would be expensive and difficult, and failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and additional liability.. If we experience system failures, personnel disruptions or capacity constraints, or our customers do not modify their systems to accept new releases of our distribution programs, the delivery of our services to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business and reputation and result in the loss of revenues or customers.. 20. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network, systems and data centers, some of which have been outsourced to third-party providers. In addition, we generate a significant amount of our revenues through channels that are dependent on links to telecommunications providers. Our systems, personnel and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disasters, power loss, war, terrorist acts, civil disobedience, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, DDoS attacks or human error. We may not have sufficient redundant operations to cover a loss or failure of our systems in a timely manner. Any significant interruption could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of revenue and customers. Additionally, from time to time we send our customers new releases of our distribution programs, some of which contain security updates. Any failure by our customers to install these new releases could expose our customers to computer security risks.. We could lose our access to data sources which could prevent us from providing our services.. Our services and products depend extensively upon continued access to and receipt of data from external sources, including data received from customers, strategic partners and various government and public records repositories. In some cases, we compete with our data providers. Our data providers could stop providing data, provide untimely data or increase the costs for their data for a variety of reasons, including a perception that our systems are insecure as a result of a data security incidents, budgetary constraints, a desire to generate additional revenue or for regulatory or competitive reasons. We could also become subject to increased legislative, regulatory or judicial restrictions or mandates on the collection, disclosure or use of such data, in particular if such data is not collected by our providers in a way that allows us to legally use the data. If we were to lose access to this external data or if our access or use were restricted or were to become less economical or desirable, our ability to provide services could be negatively impacted, which would adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in maintaining our relationships with these external data source providers or that we will be able to continue to obtain data from them on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain data from alternative sources if our current sources become unavailable.. Our business is subject to various governmental regulations, laws and orders, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses or reduce the availability or effectiveness of our solutions, and the failure to comply with which could subject us to civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities.. Our businesses are subject to regulation under the FCRA, the GLBA, the DPPA, HIPAA, HITECH, the Dodd-Frank Act, the FTC Act and various other international, federal, state and local laws and regulations. See \"Business-Legal and Regulatory Matters\" for a description of select regulatory regimes to which we are subject. These laws and regulations, which generally are designed to protect the privacy of the public and to prevent the misuse of personal information available in the marketplace, are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We already incur significant expenses in our attempt to ensure compliance with these laws.. Currently, public concern is high with regard to the operation of credit reporting agencies in the United States, as well as the collection, use, accuracy, correction and sharing of personal information, including Social Security numbers, dates of birth, financial information, medical information, department of motor vehicle data and other behavioral data. In addition, many consumer advocates, privacy advocates, legislatures and government regulators believe that existing laws and regulations do not adequately protect privacy and have become increasingly concerned with the collection and use of this type of personal information. The data incident announced by Equifax on September 7, 2017, has resulted in significantly increased legislative and regulatory activity at the federal and state levels as lawmakers and regulators continue to propose a wide range of further restrictions on the collection, dissemination or commercial use of personal information, information security standards, data security incident disclosure standards and requirements to provide certain of our services to consumers free of charge. This and additional legislative or regulatory efforts in the United States, or action by Executive Order of the President of the United States, could further regulate credit reporting agencies and the collection, use, communication, access, accuracy, obsolescence, sharing, correction and security of this personal information. Similar initiatives are underway in various other countries in which we do business. In addition, any perception that our practices or products are an invasion of privacy, whether or not consistent with current or future regulations and industry practices, may subject us to public criticism, private class actions, reputational harm, or claims by regulators, which could disrupt our business and expose us to increased liability.. Public concern regarding identity theft also has led to more transparency for consumers as to what is in their credit reports. We provide credit reports and scores and monitoring services to consumers for a fee, and this income stream could be reduced or restricted by legislation that requires us to provide these services to consumers free of charge. For example, under U.S. federal law today, we are required to provide consumers with one credit report per year free of charge.. The following legal and regulatory developments also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations:. • amendment, enactment or interpretation of laws and regulations that restrict the access and use of personal information and reduce the availability or effectiveness of our solutions or the supply of data available to customers;. 21. • changes in cultural and consumer attitudes in favor of further restrictions on information collection and sharing, which may lead to regulations that prevent full utilization of our solutions;. • failure of data suppliers or customers to comply with laws or regulations, where mutual compliance is required;. • failure of our solutions to comply with current laws and regulations; and. • failure of our solutions to adapt to changes in the regulatory environment in an efficient, cost-effective manner.. Changes in applicable legislation or regulations that restrict or dictate how we collect, maintain, combine and disseminate information, or that require us to provide services to consumers or a segment of consumers without charge, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the future, we may be subject to significant additional expense to ensure continued compliance with applicable laws and regulations and to investigate, defend or remedy actual or alleged violations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable laws or regulations could also result in significant liability to us, including liability to private plaintiffs as a result of individual or class action litigation, or may result in the cessation of our operations or portions of our operations or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. Moreover, our compliance with privacy laws and regulations and our reputation depend in part on our customers' adherence to privacy laws and regulations and their use of our services in ways consistent with consumer expectations and regulatory requirements. Certain of the laws and regulations governing our business are subject to interpretation by judges, juries and administrative entities, creating substantial uncertainty for our business. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new laws or regulations may have on our business. See \"Business-Legal and Regulatory Matters.\". The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has supervisory and examination authority over our business and may initiate enforcement actions with regard to our compliance with federal consumer financial laws.. The CFPB, which was established under the Dodd-Frank Act and commenced operations in July 2011, has broad authority over our business. This includes authority to issue regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws, such as under FCRA and other laws applicable to us and our financial customers. The CFPB is authorized to prevent \"unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices\" through its regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority.. In 2012, credit reporting companies like us became subject to a federal supervision program for the first time under the CFPB's authority to supervise and examine certain non-depository institutions that are \"larger participants\" of the consumer credit reporting market. The CFPB conducts examinations and investigations, and may issue subpoenas and bring civil actions in federal court for violations of the federal consumer financial laws including FCRA. In these proceedings, the CFPB can seek relief that includes: rescission or reformation of contracts, restitution, disgorgement of profits, payment of damages, limits on activities and civil money penalties of up to $1.0 million per day for knowing violations. The CFPB conducts periodic examinations of us and the consumer credit reporting industry, which could result in new regulations or enforcement actions or proceedings.. There continues to be uncertainty as to how the CFPB's strategies and priorities, including in both its examination and enforcement processes, will impact our business and our results of operations going forward. Actions by the CFPB could result in requirements to alter or cease offering affected products and services, making them less attractive and restricting our ability to offer them. In December 2016, as part of an agreed settlement with the CFPB, we agreed among other things, to implement certain agreed practice changes in the way we advertise, market and sell products and services offered directly to consumers.. Although we have committed resources to enhancing our compliance programs, actions by the CFPB or other regulators against us could result in reputational harm. Our compliance costs and legal and regulatory exposure could increase materially if the CFPB or other regulators enact new regulations, change regulations that were previously adopted, modify through supervision or enforcement past regulatory guidance, or interpret existing regulations in a manner different or stricter than have been previously interpreted.. We are subject to banking regulations that may limit our business activities.. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (\"Goldman\"), affiliates of which own approximately 10.8%  of the voting and economic interest in our business, is regulated as a bank holding company that has elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the \"BHC Act\"). The BHC Act imposes regulations and requirements on Goldman and on any company that is deemed to be \"controlled\" by Goldman for purposes of the BHC Act and the regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the \"Federal Reserve\") promulgated thereunder. Due to the size of its voting and economic interest in us, Goldman is deemed to control us for purposes of the BHC Act. We will remain subject to this regulatory regime until Goldman is no longer deemed to control us for purposes of the BHC Act, which we do not have the ability to control and which will not occur until Goldman has further reduced its voting and economic interest in us.. As a deemed controlled company under the BHC Act, we are restricted from engaging in activities that are not permissible for financial holding companies to engage in under the BHC Act, or the regulations promulgated thereunder. Permitted activities for a financial holding company or any of its controlled companies generally include activities that the Federal Reserve has previously determined to be financial in nature, closely related to banking, incidental to a financial activity, or complementary to a financial. 22. activity if the activity does not pose a safety and soundness risk, such as those that we provide. Restrictions placed on Goldman as a result of supervisory or enforcement actions under the BHC Act or otherwise may restrict us or our activities in certain circumstances, even if these actions are unrelated to our conduct or business. The Federal Reserve could exercise its power to restrict us from engaging in any activity that, in the Federal Reserve's opinion, is unauthorized for us or constitutes an unsafe or unsound business practice. To the extent that the Federal Reserve's regulations impose limitations on our business, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that are not subject to such regulations. Additionally, any failure of Goldman to maintain its status as a financial holding company could result in further limitations on our activities and our growth.. As a deemed controlled company under the BHC Act, we are subject to examination by the Federal Reserve and required to provide information and reports for use by the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act. The Federal Reserve may also impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations of applicable banking laws, regulations and orders. In addition, we are considered a \"banking entity\" and subject to the restrictions of Section 13 of the BHC Act, otherwise known as the \"Volcker Rule.\" As such, we are restricted (subject to certain exemptions and exclusions) from engaging in proprietary trading and from acquiring or retaining any ownership interest in, or sponsoring, a covered fund (which includes most private equity funds and hedge funds), subject to satisfying certain conditions, and, in certain circumstances, from engaging in credit related and other transactions with such funds.. We have agreed to certain covenants in the Amended and Restated Major Stockholders' Agreement, dated June 23, 2015 (as amended, the \"Amended and Restated Major Stockholders' Agreement\"), by and among TransUnion,  Advent-TransUnion Acquisition Limited Partnership (the \"Advent Investor\"), and GS Capital Partners VI Fund, L.P., GS Capital Partners VI Parallel, L.P., Spartan Shield Holdings, GS Capital Partners Offshore Fund, L.P., GS Capital Partners VI GmbH & Co. KG, MBD 2011 Holding, L.P., Opportunity Partners Offshore-B Co-Invest AIV, L.P. (the \"GS Investors\" and, together with the Advent Investor, the \"Sponsors\"), for the benefit of Goldman that are intended to facilitate its compliance with the BHC Act, but that may impose certain obligations on us. In particular, Goldman has rights to conduct audits on us, and access certain information of ours, and has certain rights to review the policies and procedures that we implement to comply with the laws and regulations that relate to our activities. In addition, we are obligated to provide Goldman with notice of certain events and business activities and cooperate with Goldman to mitigate potential adverse consequences resulting therefrom, as well as seek consent from them prior to expanding the nature of our activities.. Regulatory oversight of our contractual relationships with certain of our customers may adversely affect our business.. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency's (the \"OCC\") guidance to national banks and federal savings associations on assessing and managing risks associated with third-party relationships, which include all business arrangements between a bank and another entity, by contract or otherwise, requires banks to exercise comprehensive oversight throughout each phase of a bank's business arrangement with third-party service providers, and instructs banks to adopt risk management processes commensurate with the level of risk and complexity of its third-party relationships. The OCC expects especially rigorous oversight of third-party relationships that involve certain \"critical activities.\" In light of this guidance, our existing or potential financial services customers subject to OCC regulation may continue to revise their third-party risk management policies and processes and the terms on which they do business with us, which may adversely affect our relationship with such customers.. The outcome of litigation, inquiries, investigations, examinations or other legal proceedings in which we are involved, in which we may become involved, or in which our customers or competitors are involved could subject us to significant monetary damages or restrictions on our ability to do business.. Legal proceedings arise frequently as part of the normal course of our business. These may include individual consumer cases, class action lawsuits and inquiries, investigations, examinations, regulatory proceedings or other actions brought by federal (e.g., the CFPB and the United States Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\")) or state (e.g., state attorneys general) authorities or by consumers. The scope and outcome of these proceedings is often difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in lawsuits may seek recovery of large amounts and the cost to defend such litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity and uncertainty associated with investigations, litigation and orders (whether pertaining to us, our customers or our competitors) that could decrease customer acceptance of our services or result in material discovery expenses. In addition, a court-ordered injunction or an administrative cease-and-desist order or settlement may require us to modify our business practices or may prohibit conduct that would otherwise be legal and in which our competitors may engage. Many of the technical and complex statutes to which we are subject, including state and federal credit reporting, medical privacy and financial privacy requirements, may provide for civil and criminal penalties and may permit consumers to maintain individual or class action lawsuits against us and obtain statutorily prescribed damages. Additionally, our customers might face similar proceedings, actions or inquiries, which could affect their business and, in turn, our ability to do business with those customers. While we do not believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened legal proceeding, investigation, examination or supervisory activity will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, such events are inherently uncertain and adverse outcomes could result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us.. See \"Legal Proceedings\" for further information regarding other material pending litigation or investigations.. 23. Our ability to expand our operations in, and the portion of our revenue derived from, markets outside the United States is subject to economic, political and other inherent risks, which could adversely impact our growth rate and financial performance.. Over the last several years, we have derived a growing portion of our revenues from customers outside the United States, and it is our intent to continue to expand our international operations. We have sales and technical support personnel in numerous countries worldwide. We expect to continue to add personnel internationally to expand our abilities to deliver differentiated services to our international customers. Expansion into international markets will require significant resources and management attention and will subject us to new regulatory, economic and political risks. Moreover, the services we offer in developed and emerging markets must match our customers' demand for those services. Due to price, limited purchasing power and differences in the development of consumer credit markets, there can be no assurance that our services will be accepted in any particular developed or emerging market, and we cannot be sure that our international expansion efforts will be successful. The results of our operations and our growth rate could be adversely affected by a variety of factors arising out of international commerce, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include:. • currency exchange rate fluctuations;. • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash to the United States;. • difficulties in managing and staffing international offices;. • increased travel, infrastructure, legal and compliance costs of multiple international locations;. • foreign laws and regulatory requirements;. • terrorist activity, natural disasters and other catastrophic events;. • restrictions on the import and export of technologies;. • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable;. • longer payment cycles;. • failure to meet quality standards for outsourced work;. • unfavorable tax rules;. • political and economic conditions in foreign countries, particularly in emerging markets;. • the presence and acceptance of varying level of business corruption in international markets;. • varying business practices in foreign countries; and. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights.. For example, in 2017, the revenues from our International segment were positively impacted by 3.5% as a result of the strengthening South African rand, Indian rupee, Brazilian real and Canadian dollar, and in 2016, the revenue from our International segment were negatively impacted by 6.3%, primarily as a result of the weakening Canadian dollar, South African rand, Indian rupee and Brazilian real. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015-Revenue-International Segment.\" As we continue to expand our business, our success will partially depend on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Our failure to manage these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend, in part, on strategic alliances, joint ventures and acquisitions to grow our business. If we are unable to make strategic acquisitions and develop and maintain these strategic alliances and joint ventures, our growth may be adversely affected.. An important focus of our business is to identify business partners who can enhance our services and enable us to develop solutions that differentiate us from our competitors. We have entered into several alliance agreements or license agreements with respect to certain of our datasets and services and may enter into similar agreements in the future. These arrangements may require us to restrict our use of certain of our technologies among certain customer industries, or to grant licenses on terms that ultimately may prove to be unfavorable to us, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Relationships with our alliance agreement partners may include risks due to incomplete information regarding the marketplace and commercial strategies of our partners, and our alliance agreements or other licensing agreements may be the subject of contractual disputes. If we or our alliance agreements' partners are not successful in maintaining or commercializing the alliance agreements' services, such commercial failure could adversely affect our business.. In addition, a significant strategy for our international expansion is to establish operations through strategic alliances or joint ventures with local financial institutions and other partners. We cannot provide assurance that these arrangements will be successful or that our relationships with our partners will continue to be mutually beneficial. If these relationships cannot be established or. 24. maintained, it could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our ownership in and control of our foreign investments may be limited by local law.. We also selectively evaluate and consider acquisitions as a means of expanding our business and entering into new markets. We may not be able to acquire businesses we target due to a variety of factors such as competition from companies that are better positioned to make the acquisition. Our inability to make such strategic acquisitions could restrict our ability to expand our business and enter into new markets which would limit our ability to generate future revenue growth. Additionally, given some of our equity interests in various companies, we may be limited in our ability to require or influence such companies to make acquisitions or take other actions that we believe to be in our or their best interests. Our inability to take such actions could have a material impact on our revenues or earnings.. If we are unable to develop successful new services in a timely manner, or if the market does not adopt our new services, our ability to maintain or increase our revenue could be adversely affected.. In order to keep pace with customer demands for increasingly sophisticated service offerings, to sustain expansion into growth industries and to maintain our profitability, we must continue to innovate and introduce new services to the market. The process of developing new services is complex and uncertain. Our industry solutions require extensive experience and knowledge from within the relevant industry. We must commit significant resources to this effort before knowing whether the market will accept new service offerings. Additionally, our business strategy is dependent on our ability to expand into new markets and to bring new products to market. We may not successfully enter into new markets or execute on our new services because of challenges in planning or timing, technical hurdles, difficulty in predicting market demand, changes in regulation or a lack of appropriate resources. Additionally, even if we successfully develop new products, our existing customers might not accept these new products or new markets might not adopt our products due to operational constraints, high switching costs or general lack of market readiness. Failure to successfully introduce new services to the market could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to maintain and improve our systems, our data matching technology, and our interfaces with data sources and customers, demand for our services could be adversely affected.. In our markets, there are continuous improvements in computer hardware, network operating systems, programming tools, programming languages, operating systems, data matching, data filtering and other database technologies and the use of the internet. These improvements, as well as changes in customer preferences or regulatory requirements, may require changes in the technology used to gather and process our data and deliver our services. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to:. • internally develop and implement new and competitive technologies;. • use leading third-party technologies effectively;. • respond to changing customer needs and regulatory requirements, including being able to bring our new products to the market quickly; and. • transition customers and data sources successfully to new interfaces or other technologies.. We cannot provide assurance that we will successfully implement new technologies, cause customers or data furnishers to implement compatible technologies or adapt our technology to evolving customer, regulatory and competitive requirements. If we fail to respond, or fail to cause our customers or data furnishers to respond, to changes in technology, regulatory requirements or customer preferences, the demand for our services, the delivery of our services or our market reputation could be adversely affected. Additionally, our failure to implement important updates could affect our ability to successfully meet the timeline for us to generate cost savings resulting from our investments in improved technology. Failure to achieve any of these objectives would impede our ability to deliver strong financial results.. When we engage in acquisitions, investments in new businesses or divestitures of existing businesses, we will face risks that may adversely affect our business.. We may acquire or make investments in businesses that offer complementary services and technologies. Acquisitions may not be completed on favorable terms and acquired assets, data or businesses may not be successfully integrated into our operations. Any acquisitions or investments will include risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses, including:. • failing to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired business;. • paying more than fair market value for an acquired company or assets;. • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses in an efficient and timely manner;. • disrupting our ongoing businesses;. • distracting management focus from our existing businesses;. 25. • acquiring unanticipated liabilities;. • failing to retain key personnel;. • incurring the expense of an impairment of assets due to the failure to realize expected benefits;. • damaging relationships with employees, customers or strategic partners;. • diluting the share value of existing stockholders; and. • incurring additional debt or reducing available cash to service our existing debt.. Any divestitures will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in the sale of businesses, which may include:. • disrupting our ongoing businesses;. • reducing our revenues;. • losing key personnel;. • distracting management focus from our existing businesses;. • indemnification claims for breaches of representations and warranties in sale agreements;. • damaging relationships with employees and customers as a result of transferring a business to new owners; and. • failure to close a transaction due to conditions such as financing or regulatory approvals not being satisfied.. These risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations, particularly if they occur in the context of a significant acquisition or divestiture. Acquisitions of businesses having a significant presence outside the United States will increase our exposure to the risks of conducting operations in international markets.. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately or cost-effectively, which may cause us to lose market share or force us to reduce our prices. We also rely on trade secrets and other forms of unpatented intellectual property that may be difficult to protect.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect and preserve the proprietary aspects of our technology and services. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, including trade secrets and other unpatented intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market and deliver similar services, decreasing the demand for our services. We rely on the patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, as well as contractual restrictions, such as nondisclosure agreements, to protect and control access to our proprietary intellectual property. These measures afford limited protection, however, and may be inadequate. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our proprietary assets without our authorization or from breaching any contractual restrictions with us. Enforcing our rights could be costly, time-consuming, distracting and harmful to significant business relationships. Claims that a third party illegally obtained and is using trade secrets can be difficult to prove, and courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Additionally, others may independently develop non-infringing technologies that are similar or superior to ours. Any significant failure or inability to adequately protect and control our proprietary assets may harm our business and reduce our ability to compete.. We may face claims for intellectual property infringement, which could subject us to monetary damages or limit us in using some of our technologies or providing certain services.. There has been substantial litigation in the United States regarding intellectual property rights in the information technology industry. We cannot be certain that we do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, including the intellectual property rights of third parties in other countries, which could result in a liability to us. Historically, patent applications in the United States and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until eighteen months following submission of the patent application, and we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or processes. If patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. In the event that claims are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties (if available on acceptable terms or at all). Any such claims, regardless of merit, could be time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle, divert the attention of management and materially disrupt the conduct of our business, and we may not prevail. Intellectual property infringement claims against us could subject us to liability for damages and restrict us from providing services or require changes to certain products or services. Although our policy is to obtain licenses or other rights where necessary, we cannot provide assurance that we have obtained all required licenses or rights. If a successful claim of infringement is brought against us and we fail to develop non-infringing products or services, or to obtain licenses on a timely and cost-effective basis, our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 26. If our outside service providers and key vendors are not able to or do not fulfill their service obligations, our operations could be disrupted and our operating results could be harmed.. We depend on a number of service providers and key vendors such as telecommunication companies, software engineers, data processors, software and hardware vendors and providers of credit score algorithms, who are critical to our operations. These service providers and vendors are involved with our service offerings, communications and networking equipment, computer hardware and software and related support and maintenance. Although we have implemented service-level agreements and have established monitoring controls, our operations could be disrupted if we do not successfully manage relationships with our service providers, if they do not perform or are unable to perform agreed-upon service levels, or if they are unwilling to make their services available to us at reasonable prices. If our service providers and vendors do not perform their service obligations, it could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. There may be further consolidation in our end-customer markets, which may adversely affect our revenues.. There has been, and we expect there will continue to be, merger, acquisition and consolidation activity in our customer markets. If our customers merge with, or are acquired by, other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, our revenue may be adversely impacted. In addition, industry consolidation could affect the base of recurring transaction-based revenue if consolidated customers combine their operations under one contract, since most of our contracts provide for volume discounts. In addition, our existing customers might leave certain geographic markets, which would no longer require them to purchase certain products from us and, consequently, we would generate less revenue than we currently expect.. To the extent the availability of free or relatively inexpensive consumer information increases, the demand for some of our services may decrease.. Public and commercial sources of free or relatively inexpensive consumer information have become increasingly available and this trend is expected to continue. Public and commercial sources of free or relatively inexpensive consumer information, including free credit information from lead generation companies and from banks, may reduce demand for our services. To the extent that our customers choose not to obtain services from us and instead rely on information obtained at little or no cost from these public and commercial sources, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. If we experience changes in tax laws or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns, it could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to federal, state and local income and other taxes in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. From time to time the United States federal, state, local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application thereof, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law or interpretation and could adversely impact profitability. State and local tax authorities have strengthened their efforts to increase revenues through changes in tax law, including laws regarding nexus and apportionment for sales and income taxes.. Consequently, significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Our future effective tax rates and the value of our deferred tax assets could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns and other tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and reserves for other taxes. Although we believe we have made appropriate provisions for taxes in the jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in the tax laws, including a reform of the U.S. tax laws by the new administration, or challenges from tax authorities under existing tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, a law commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") was enacted in the United States. Among other things, the Act reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21 percent and implements a new system of taxation for non-U.S. earnings, including by imposing a one-time tax on the deemed repatriation of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our tax provision included adjustments for certain items for which the accounting is incomplete but for which we have made a reasonable estimate. Our 2017 tax provision did not include adjustments for certain items for which the accounting is incomplete and for which we were unable to make a reasonable estimate. We will refine and complete these adjustments in 2018 as further guidance is provided by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") and our analysis is completed. In the absence of guidance on various uncertainties and ambiguities in the application of certain provisions of the Act, we will use what we believe are reasonable interpretations and assumptions in applying the Act, but it is possible that the IRS or the FASB could issue subsequent guidance or take positions that differ from our prior interpretations and assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash tax liabilities, results of operations, and financial condition.. 27. We are subject to losses from risks for which we do not insure.. For certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. Because we retain some portion of insurable risks, and in some cases retain our risk of loss completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to attract and retain the skilled employees that we need to support our business.. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced management, sales, research and development, analytics, marketing and technical support personnel. If any of our key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, it may be difficult to replace them and our business could be seriously harmed. If we are unable to find qualified successors to fill key positions as needed, our business could be seriously harmed. The complexity of our services requires trained customer service and technical support personnel. We may not be able to hire and retain such qualified personnel at compensation levels consistent with our compensation structure. Some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expense replacing employees and our ability to provide quality services could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents might discourage, delay or prevent acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders.. These provisions provide for, among other things:. • a classified Board of Directors with staggered three year terms;. • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock;. • advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings;. • certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings;. • the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of stock of the Company entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class; and. • that certain provisions may be amended only by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of stock of the Company entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class.. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares.. Our ability to pay cash dividends may be limited by the terms of our secured credit facility.. On February 13, 2018, we announced that our board of directors has approved a dividend policy pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. We expect to commence paying dividends pursuant to this policy in the second quarter of 2018. The terms of our senior secured credit facility impose certain limitations on our ability to pay dividends. We may, however, declare and pay cash dividends up to an unlimited amount unless a default or event of default exists under the senior secured credit facility. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which would adversely affect our business and our stock price.. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be reevaluated frequently. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. general accepted accounting principles. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all. 28. control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company will have been detected. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to prevent fraud. As a result, any failure to maintain the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, or any consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business, which in turn, could cause the market value of our stock to decline.. 29"
