[1] "ITEM 1.A.  RISK FACTORS. We are currently highly dependent on the commercial success of a single product, the Senhance System.  We cannot give any assurance that the Senhance System can be successfully commercialized.. We are currently highly dependent on the commercial success of the Senhance System, which is FDA cleared and CE marked. We began our selling efforts for the Senhance System in the fourth quarter of 2015 in Europe and in the fourth quarter of 2017 in the United States.  We have had limited commercial success to date.  We are still in the process of establishing our commercial infrastructure in the U.S.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully commercialize the Senhance System, for a number of reasons, including, without limitation, failure in our sales and marketing efforts, the long sales cycle associated with the purchase of capital equipment, or the potential introduction by our competitors of more clinically effective or cost-effective alternatives.  Failure to successfully commercialize the Senhance System would have a material and adverse effect on our business.. The sales cycle for the Senhance System is lengthy and unpredictable, which will make it difficult for us to forecast revenue and increase the magnitude of quarterly fluctuations in our operating results.. Purchase of a surgical robotic system such as the Senhance System represents a capital purchase by hospitals and other potential customers.  The capital purchase nature of the transaction, the complexity of our product, the relative newness of surgical robotics and the competitive landscape requires us to spend substantial time and effort to assist potential customers in evaluating our robotic systems. We must communicate with multiple surgeons, administrative staff and executives within each potential customer in order to receive all approvals on behalf of such organizations. We may face difficulty identifying and establishing contact with such decision makers. Even after initial acceptance, the negotiation and documentation processes can be lengthy. Additionally, our customers may have strict limitations on spending depending on the current economic climate or trends in healthcare management.. We are also expanding the potential market for robotic surgical systems with our focus on laparoscopic surgery.  Such expansion requires a different sales and marketing approach than a focus on open procedures.  We expect our sales cycle to range between four to six quarters per sale.  Each sale could take longer. Any delay in completing sales in a particular quarter could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. We also expect such a lengthy sales cycle makes it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue in future periods and may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly in future periods.. Although we have expanded our commercial organization, we currently have limited marketing, sales and distribution capabilities. We are distributing our products through direct sales in the U.S. and select countries in Europe, and elsewhere through the use of independent contractor and distribution agreements with companies possessing established sales and marketing operations in the medical device industry.  There can be no assurance that we will be successful in building our sales capabilities. To the extent that we enter into distribution, co-promotion or other arrangements, our product revenue is likely to be lower than if we directly market or sell our products. In addition, any revenue we receive will depend in whole or in part upon the efforts of such third parties, which may not be successful and are generally not within our control. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. If we are not successful in commercializing our existing and future products, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses.. We have procedures in place to require our distributors and sales agents to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing the sales of medical devices in the jurisdictions where they operate.  Failure to meet such requirements could subject us to financial penalties or the suspension or termination of the ability to sell our products in such jurisdiction.. The surgical robotics industry is increasingly competitive, which can negatively impact our commercial opportunities.. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from many medical device companies that are researching and marketing products designed to address minimally invasive and robotic-assisted surgery, including new entrants in the competitive market. We are currently commercializing the Senhance System in the U.S. with FDA 510(k) clearance, in Europe which accepts a CE Mark, the Middle East and selected countries in Asia and face significant competition in such markets.  Many of our competitors, including Intuitive Surgical, have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and product development resources than we do. Some of the medical device companies we compete with or expect to compete with include Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic plc, Applied Medical, Intuitive Surgical, Verb Surgical, Titan Medical and a number of minimally invasive surgical device and robotic surgical device manufacturers and providers of products and therapies that are designed to reduce the need for or attractiveness of surgical intervention. In addition, many other universities and private and public research institutions are or may become active in research involving surgical devices for minimally invasive and robotic-assisted surgery.. We are also expanding the potential market for robotic surgical systems with our focus on laparoscopic surgery.  Such expansion may lead to additional competition with companies with sufficiently higher resources than ours.. 9. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things:. •  the efficacy, safety and reliability of our products;. •  our ability to commercialize and market our cleared or approved products;. •  the completion of our development efforts and receipt of regulatory clearance or approval for instruments and accessories to support the use of the Senhance System;. •  the cost of ownership and use of our products in relation to alternative devices;. •  the timing and scope of regulatory clearances or approvals, including any expansion of the indications of use for our products;. •  whether our competitors substantially reduce the cost of ownership and use of an alternative device;. •  our ability to protect and defend intellectual property rights related to our products;. •  our ability to have our partners manufacture and sell commercial quantities of any cleared or approved products to the market;. •  the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors for the procedures in which our products are used;. •  the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; and. •  acceptance of future products by physicians and other health care providers.. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer, easier to use or less expensive than our products or future products, or that reach the market sooner than our products, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, the medical device industry is characterized by rapid technological change. It may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies or products obsolete or less competitive.. We anticipate that the highly competitive surgical robotics environment can lead our competitors to attempt to slow or derail our commercial progress.  We are using our best efforts to enter the commercial markets effectively and efficiently while maintaining compliance with all regulatory and legal requirements.  Responding to the actions of our competitors will require the attention of our management and may distract the management team from its focus on our commercial operations and lead to increased costs of commercialization, which could have a negative impact on our financial position.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results.. We conduct operations in several different countries, including the U.S. and throughout Europe, and portions of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros, and other currencies. Since our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. We have not historically hedged our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations.  Accordingly, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Euro and other currencies could materially affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies.. Our global operations expose us to additional risks and challenges associated with conducting business internationally.. The international expansion of our business may expose us to risks inherent in conducting foreign operations. These risks include:. •  challenges associated with managing geographically diverse operations, which require an effective organizational structure and appropriate business processes, procedures and controls;. •  the increased cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, including compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations;. 10. •  currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into hedging transactions, if we chose to do so in the future;. •  changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic environment;. •  trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements or other restrictive actions by U.S. or non-U.S. governments;. •  potentially adverse tax consequences;. •  complexities and difficulties in obtaining protection and enforcing our intellectual property;. •  compliance with additional regulations and government authorities in a highly regulated business;. •  difficulties associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including differing labor relations; and. •  general economic and political conditions outside of the U.S.. The risks that we face in our international operations may continue to intensify as we further develop and expand our international operations.. As we ramp up our manufacturing capabilities we face risks arising from sole suppliers of components and our ability to meet delivery schedules for sales of our products.. The Senhance System is manufactured for us under contract by a third party manufacturer. We or our manufacturer acquire raw materials and components of the Senhance System from vendors, some of which are sole suppliers. Although we believe that we have the manufacturing and inventory reserves to meet our anticipated Senhance System sales for the foreseeable future, we are currently taking steps to develop redundant manufacturing and supply alternatives. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing these redundant supply and manufacturing capabilities. If we are not successful, our business operations could suffer.. Because our design, development and manufacturing capabilities are limited, we may rely on third parties to design, develop, manufacture or supply some of our products. An inability to find additional or alternate sources for these services and products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We have used third-party design and development sources to assist in the design and development of our medical device products. In the future, we may choose to use additional third-party sources for the design and development of our products. If these design and development partners are unable to provide their services in the timeframe or to the performance level that we require, we may not be able to establish a contract and obtain a sufficient alternative supply from another supplier on a timely basis and in the manner that we require.. Our products require precise, high quality manufacturing. We and our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities to ensure strict compliance with the quality systems regulations, current \"good manufacturing practices\" and other applicable government regulations and corresponding standards. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with QSR, we may experience manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for our products, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business.. Any performance failure by us or on the part of our design and development partners or contract manufacturers could delay product development or regulatory clearance or approval of our products, or commercialization of our products and future products, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. In addition, our dependence on any third party for design, development or manufacturing could adversely affect our future profit margins. Our ability to replace any then-existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and, in the case of Class III devices, the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before manufacturing can begin. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all.. 11. Our stock price has been volatile and may experience additional fluctuation in the future.. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile, and such volatility could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease and could cause you to lose some or all of your investment in our common stock.  During the two year period ended December 31, 2017, the market price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $6.10 per share to a low of $0.45 per share. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as:. •  the announcement of favorable or unfavorable news regarding us, including our product development efforts and regulatory clearance activities;. •  the achievement of commercial sales of our products;. •  the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;. •  developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals;. •  variations in our and our competitors' results of operations;. •  changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if our common stock is covered by analysts;. •  developments in surgical robotics;. •  the results of product liability or intellectual property lawsuits;. •  future issuances of common stock or other securities;. •  the addition or departure of key personnel;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; and. •  general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance.. Further, the stock market in general, and the market for medical device companies in particular, can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock and the loss of some or all of your investment.. We have a history of operating losses, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability.. We have a limited operating history. We are not profitable and have incurred losses since our inception.   Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $144.8 million, and our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2017 was $447.6 million.  We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with cash received from sales of our products, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months.. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We will continue to incur research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations, and expect to increase our sales and marketing expenses as we increase our sales and marketing activities for the Senhance System in jurisdictions where FDA clearance and CE marking provides authorization for commercial activities.  If our product candidates fail in development or do not gain regulatory clearance or approval, or if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods.. We will require substantial additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. We do not anticipate that the net proceeds of equity financings in 2017 will be sufficient to support development of our products and product candidates and provide us with the necessary resources to commercialize the Senhance System and other products through the lengthy sales cycle. While we are currently focused on commercialization of our Senhance System, we intend to advance multiple additional products through clinical and pre-clinical development in the future. We believe we will need to raise substantial additional capital in order to continue our operations and achieve our business objectives.. We have an effective shelf registration statement. As of December 31, 2017, we had $100 million available for future financings under such shelf registration statement.  Such capacity will expire in May 2020.  We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining such additional financing on terms acceptable to the Company or at all.. 12. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. •  the costs of our Senhance System commercialization and development activities;. •  the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory clearances and approvals for our products in development;. •  the costs associated with establishing a sales force and commercialization capabilities;. •  the costs associated with the expansion of our manufacturing capabilities;. •  our need to expand our research and development activities;. •  the costs of acquiring, licensing or investing in businesses, products and technologies;. •  the economic and other terms and timing of our existing licensing arrangement and any collaboration, licensing or other arrangements into which we may enter in the future;. •  our need and ability to hire additional management, scientific, medical and sales and marketing personnel;. •  the effect of competing technological and market developments;. •  our need to implement additional internal systems and infrastructure, including financial and reporting systems, quality systems and information technology systems; and. •  our ability to maintain, expand and defend the scope of our intellectual property portfolio.. Until we generate a sufficient amount of revenue to finance our cash requirements, which may never occur, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic collaborations. We do not know whether additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution; and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that limit our operations. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our products or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us.. Our stockholders have experienced dilution of their percentage ownership of our stock and may experience additional dilution in the future.. We have raised significant capital through the issuance of our common stock and warrants and anticipate that we will need to raise substantial additional capital in order to continue our operations and achieve our business objectives. We have an effective shelf registration statement under which we have the current ability to raise up to $100 million through the issuance of equity or debt securities.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell shares or other securities in any offering at a price per share that is equal to or greater than the price per share paid by investors in previous offerings, and investors purchasing shares or other securities in the future could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The price per share at which we sell additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in future transactions may be higher or lower than the price per share in previous offerings. The future issuance of the Company's equity securities will further dilute the ownership of our outstanding common stock.  The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile, and such volatility could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease and could cause you to lose some or all of your investment in our common stock.. Sales by stockholders of substantial amounts of our shares of common stock, the issuance of new shares of common stock by us or the perception that these sales may occur in the future could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 25% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, if some or all of them acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our board of directors and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise recover a premium for their shares over current market prices.. 13. The exercise of our outstanding options and warrants will dilute stockholders and could decrease our stock price.. The existence of our outstanding options and warrants, including the outstanding Series B Warrants, may adversely affect our stock price due to sales of a large number of shares or the perception that such sales could occur. These factors also could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of common stock or warrants, and could adversely impact the terms under which we could obtain additional equity capital. Exercise of outstanding options and warrants, or any future issuance of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities, including but not limited to options, warrants or other derivative securities convertible into our common stock, may result in significant dilution to our stockholders and may decrease our stock price.. If we default on our existing indebtedness, such default would affect our financial condition.. We are party with Innovatus Life Sciences Lending Fund I, LP, or the Lender, and jointly and severally liable with certain of our U.S. subsidiaries for $14.0 million of outstanding debt under term loans issued under our Loan and Security Agreement, or the Innovatus Loan Agreement. The maturity date of the outstanding term loan is May 10, 2021.  If we were to become unable to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due in respect of, our indebtedness, our financial condition would be adversely affected.  Further, under the Innovatus Loan Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictive covenants that, among other things, subject to exceptions, restrict the Company's ability to do the following things: declare dividends or redeem or repurchase equity interests; incur additional liens; make loans and investments; incur additional indebtedness; engage in mergers, acquisitions, and asset sales; transact with affiliates; undergo a change in control; add or change business locations; and engage in businesses that are not related to its existing business. If we breach any of these restrictive covenants or are unable to pay our indebtedness under the Innovatus Loan Agreement when due, this could result in a default under the Innovatus Loan Agreement. In such event, the Lender may elect (after the expiration of any applicable notice or grace periods) to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts payable under the Innovatus Loan Agreement, to be immediately due and payable. Any such occurrence would have an adverse impact on our financial condition. The Company's obligations under the Innovatus Loan Agreement are secured by a security interest in all of the assets of the Company and its current and future domestic and material foreign subsidiaries, including a security interest in the intellectual property.. We issued 24,900,000 Series A Warrants and 24,900,000 Series B Warrants in May 2017; the outstanding warrants must be revalued each reporting period.  In addition, we owe contingent consideration to Sofar under the Purchase Agreement that is also revalued each reporting period.  Such assessments involve the use of estimates that could later be found to differ materially from actual results.. On April 28, 2017, we sold 24.9 million units, each consisting of one share of common stock, a Series A warrant to purchase one share of common stock, and a Series B warrant to purchase 0.75 shares of common stock, at a public offering price of $1.00 per unit for aggregate gross proceeds of $24.9 million in an underwritten firm commitment public offering.  As of December 31, 2017, all Series A warrants were exercised. At December 31, 2017, Series B Warrants to acquire 9.8 million shares of common stock were outstanding. The outstanding Series B Warrants contain provisions, often referred to as \"down-round protection\" that may lead to adjustment of the exercise price and number of underlying warrant shares with respect to future issuances by the Company of its securities, including its common stock or convertible securities or debt securities.  In addition, the third tranche of the contingent consideration to be paid to Sofar under the Purchase Agreement remains outstanding, to be paid if the designated milestone is met.. The Series B Warrants and the contingent consideration are each recorded as a liability on our financial statements, and we are required to revalue each of the outstanding Series B Warrants and the contingent consideration at each reporting period.  Such revaluations necessarily involve the use of estimates, assumptions, probabilities and application of complex accounting principles.  Actual value at the time the Series B Warrants are exercised or the contingent consideration paid could vary significantly from the value assigned to such liabilities on a quarterly basis. We cannot assure you that the revaluation of the Series B Warrants and contingent consideration will equal the value in the future, and know that the actual value could be significantly different, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We sold our SurgiBot System assets in 2017, and we may not obtain the royalty income we anticipate from such sale.. In December 2017, we transferred ownership of the SurgiBot System assets to GBIL. The agreements provide rights to the purchaser to manufacture, or have manufactured, the SurgiBot System in China, and provides exclusive distribution rights to the Chinese market.  The agreement provides us with minimum royalties of $14 million over a future five-year period.  If the buyer is not successful in gaining Chinese regulatory approval or marketing the SurgiBot System, we will only receive such minimum royalties, decreasing the return on the funds expended in the development of the SurgiBot System.. 14. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties.. Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products or impair our competitive position. In addition, to the extent that a third party develops new technology that covers our products, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we will not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities, unless we challenge the validity, enforceability or infringement of the third-party patent or circumvent the third-party patent, which would be costly and would require significant time and attention of our management. Third parties may have or obtain valid and enforceable patents or proprietary rights that could block us from developing products using our technology. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our product development and commercialization efforts, any of which could materially adversely affect our liquidity, business prospects and results of operations.. Third parties may sue us for infringing their patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of others. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. Furthermore, in connection with our third-party license agreements, we generally have agreed to indemnify the licensor for costs incurred in connection with litigation relating to intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management's efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations.. If any parties successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties' patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations.. For our Senhance System, we rely on our license from the European Union, and any loss of our rights under such license agreement, or failure to properly prosecute, maintain or enforce the patent applications underlying such license agreement, could materially adversely affect our business prospects for the Senhance System.. Some of the patents and patent applications in our patent portfolio related to the Senhance System are licensed to TransEnterix Italia under a license agreement with the European Union. Presently, we rely on such licensed technology for our Senhance System products and may license additional technology from the European Union or other third parties in the future. The EU license agreement gives us rights for the commercial exploitation of the licensed patents, patent applications and know-how, subject to certain provisions of the license agreement. Failure to comply with these provisions could result in the loss of our rights under the EU license agreement. Our inability to rely on these patents and patent applications which are the basis of certain aspects of our Senhance System technology would have an adverse effect on our business.. Further, our success will depend in part on the ability of us, the European Union and other third-party licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for our licensed intellectual property and, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. We, the European Union or other third-party licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications which are licensed to us, may fail to maintain these patents, and may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than necessary to obtain an acceptable outcome from any such litigation. Without protection for the intellectual property we have licensed, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could materially adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and results of operations.. If we or our licensors are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected.. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on other proprietary rights, including protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we will seek to. 15. enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also generally provide and will generally provide that any inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection, particularly for our trade secrets or other confidential information. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use technology or know-how owned by third parties in their work for us, disputes may arise between us and those third parties as to the rights in related inventions. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products, our business could be materially harmed.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop or license under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. However, we may not hold proprietary rights to some patents required for us to commercialize our proposed products. Because certain U.S. patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after such date which will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over those applications. For this and other reasons, we or our third-party collaborators may be unable to secure desired patent rights, thereby losing desired exclusivity. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we will not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities, unless we challenge the validity, enforceability or infringement of the third-party patent or otherwise circumvent the third-party patent.. Our strategy depends on our ability to promptly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. In addition, we may rely on third-party collaborators to file patent applications relating to proprietary technology that we develop jointly during certain collaborations. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming. If our present or future collaborators fail to file and prosecute all necessary and desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. Despite our efforts and the efforts of our collaborators to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to develop and use information that we regard as proprietary.. The issuance of a patent provides a presumption, but does not guarantee that it is valid. Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged or potentially circumvented. Moreover, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. Any such challenge to our patents or patent applications would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, future court decisions may introduce uncertainty in the enforceability or scope of any patent, including those owned by medical device companies.. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of medical device companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in medical device patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. The legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, the enforceability or scope of our owned or licensed patents in the United States or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties.. We cannot assure you that any patents that will issue, that may issue or that may be licensed to us will be enforceable or valid or will not expire prior to the commercialization of our products, thus allowing others to more effectively compete with us. Therefore, any patents that we own or license may not adequately protect our future products.. 16. Even if we obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for our products, the terms thereof and ongoing regulation of our products may limit how we manufacture and market our products, which could materially impair our ability to generate anticipated revenues.. Once regulatory clearance or approval has been granted, the cleared or approved product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. Any cleared or approved product may be promoted only for its indicated uses. In addition, if the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities clear or approve any of our products, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion for the product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We and any outsourced manufacturers of our products are also required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or similar requirements of non-U.S. regulatory authorities which includes requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation as well as other quality system requirements and regulations from non-U.S. regulatory authorities. Further, regulatory agencies must approve our manufacturing facilities for Class III devices before they can be used to manufacture our products, and all manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspection. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA, either before or after clearance or approval, or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, or if previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including:. •  restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing process;. •  adverse inspectional observations (Form 483) warning letters, non-warning letters incorporating inspectional observations;. •  civil or criminal penalties or fines;. •  injunctions;. •  product seizures, detentions or import bans;. •  voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements;. •  suspension or withdrawal of regulatory clearances or approvals;. •  total or partial suspension of production;. •  imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements;. •  refusal to clear or approve pending applications or premarket notifications; and. •  import and export restrictions.. Any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, which could result in our failure to produce our products on a timely basis and in the required quantities, if at all.. In addition, the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may change their policies and additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory clearance or approval of our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we would likely not be permitted to market our future products and we may not achieve or sustain profitability.. 17. The regulatory approval and clearance processes are expensive, time-consuming and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining approvals or clearances, as the case may be, for the commercialization of some or all of our products.. Regulatory approval of a PMA, PMA supplement or clearance pursuant to a 510(k) premarket notification is not guaranteed, and the approval or clearance process, as the case may be, is expensive, uncertain and may, especially in the case of the PMA application, take several years. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the medical device clearance process or approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to repeat or perform additional development, standardized testing, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. The number of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA clearance or approval varies depending on the medical device candidate, the disease or condition that the medical device candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular medical device candidate. The FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a medical device candidate for many reasons, including:. •  a medical device candidate may not be deemed safe or effective, in the case of a PMA application;. •  a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be substantially equivalent to a device lawfully marketed either as a grandfathered device or one that was cleared through the 510(k) premarket notification process;. •  a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be in conformance with applicable standards and regulations;. •  FDA or other regulatory officials may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials sufficient;. •  the FDA might not approve our processes or facilities or those of any of our third-party manufacturers for a Class III PMA device;. •  other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may not approve our processes or facilities or those of any of our third-party manufacturers, thereby restricting export; or. •  the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may change clearance or approval policies or adopt new regulations.. The laws governing the regulatory approval or clearance pathways in jurisdictions outside of the United States are complex.  We need to ensure that our activities, and the activities of our distributors and agents, comply with such laws.  If we do not comply with such laws, we may not be able to sell our products, including the Senhance System, in all jurisdictions we have targeted, which could have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition.. Once our products are cleared or approved, modifications to our products may require new 510(k) clearances, premarket approvals or new or amended CE Certificates of Conformity, and may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances, approvals or the relevant CE Certificates of Conformity are obtained.. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review such determinations. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations for any future changes, or prior changes to previously marketed products, as the case may be, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified products until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties.. Furthermore, the FDA's ongoing review of the 510(k) program may make it more difficult for us to make modifications to our products, either by imposing more strict requirements on when a new 510(k) for a modification to a previously cleared product must be submitted, or applying more onerous review criteria to such submissions. In October 2017, the FDA issued guidance documents addressing when to submit a new 510(k) due to modifications to 510(k) cleared products and the criteria for evaluating substantial equivalence. The interpretation of the guidance document by the FDA staff could lead to instances where the FDA disagrees with the Company's decision regarding a change, and could result in warning letters and other enforcement actions.. Even after clearance or approval for our products is obtained, we are subject to extensive post-market regulation by the FDA. Our failure to meet strict regulatory requirements could require us to pay fines, incur other costs or even close our facilities.. Even after we have obtained the proper regulatory clearance or approval to market a product, the FDA has the power to require us to conduct post-market studies. These studies can be very expensive and time-consuming to conduct. Failure to complete such studies in a timely manner could result in the revocation of clearance or approval and the recall or withdrawal of the product, which could prevent us from generating sales from that product in the United States. The FDA has broad enforcement powers, and any regulatory enforcement actions or inquiries, or other increased scrutiny on us, could dissuade some surgeons from using our products and adversely affect our reputation and the perceived safety and efficacy of our products.. 18. We are also required to comply with the FDA's QSR, which covers the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage, shipping, installation and servicing of our marketed products. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. In addition, in the future, regulatory authorities and/or customers may require specific packaging of sterile products, which could increase our costs and the price of our products. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as QSR, may result in changes to labeling, restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, a requirement to repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device we manufacture or distribute, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties which would adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects.. If one of our products, or a malfunction of one of our products, causes or contributes to a death or a serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions.. Under the FDA's medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. Repeated product malfunctions may result in a voluntary or involuntary product recall, which could divert managerial and financial resources, impair our ability to manufacture our products in a cost-effective and timely manner, and have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. We are also required to follow detailed recordkeeping requirements for all firm-initiated medical device corrections and removals, and to report such corrective and removal actions to the FDA if they are carried out in response to a risk to health and have not otherwise been reported under the MDR regulations.. All manufacturers bringing medical devices to market in the European Economic Area, or EEA, are legally bound to report any incident that led or might have led to the death or serious deterioration in the state of health of a patient, user or other person, and which the manufacturer's device is suspected to have caused, to the competent authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. In such case, the manufacturer must file an initial report with the relevant competent authority, which would be followed by further evaluation or investigation of the incident and a final report indicating whether further action is required.  Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Adverse events involving our products have been reported to us in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur in the future. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business and may harm our reputation and financial results.. A recall of our products, either voluntarily or at the direction of the FDA or another governmental authority, or the discovery of serious safety issues with our products, could have a significant adverse impact on us.. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities such as the competent authorities of the EEA countries have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues.. Any future recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition, which could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers' demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits.. U.S. legislative or FDA regulatory reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates and to manufacture, market and distribute our products after approval is obtained.. Legislative changes could significantly alter the statutory provisions governing the regulatory approval, manufacture and marketing of regulated products. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance could be revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that could significantly affect our business and our products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of future products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be.. 19. Even if we receive regulatory clearance or approval to market our products, the market may not be receptive to our products, which could undermine our financial viability.. Even if our products obtain regulatory clearance or approval, resulting products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and/or the medical community. We have experienced minimal sales of our Senhance System, to date. We believe that the degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  timing of market introduction of competitive products;. •  safety and efficacy of our products;. •  physician training in the use of our products;. •  prevalence and severity of any side effects;. •  potential advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments;. •  strength of marketing and distribution support; and. •  price of our future products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments.. If applicable, availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payors can also impact the acceptance of our product offerings.. If we fail to attract and retain key management and professional personnel, we may be unable to successfully commercialize or develop our products.. We will need to effectively manage our operational, sales and marketing, development and other resources in order to successfully pursue our commercialization and research and development efforts for our existing and future products. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel.   If we are not successful in retaining and recruiting highly qualified personnel, our business may be harmed as a result.. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, false claims, privacy and security and physician payment transparency laws. If we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face substantial penalties.. Our business activities are subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Such laws include, without limitation, state and federal anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, false claims, privacy and security and physician payment transparency laws. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including, without limitation, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. Current legislation and future legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably.. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there to continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives, at both the federal and state government levels, to change the healthcare system in ways that, if approved, could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. While many of the proposed policy changes require congressional approval to implement, we cannot assure you that reimbursement payments under governmental and private third-party payor programs to health care providers will remain at levels comparable to present levels or will be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement under these programs. Any changes that lower reimbursement rates under Medicare, Medicaid or private payor programs could negatively affect our business.. To the extent that any of our products are deemed to be durable medical equipment, or DME, they may be subject to distribution under Medicare's Competitive Acquisition regulations, which could adversely affect the amount that we can seek from payors. Non - DME devices used in surgical procedures are normally paid directly by the hospital or health care provider and not reimbursed separately by third-party payors. As a result, these types of devices are subject to intense price competition that can place a small manufacturer at a competitive disadvantage as hospitals and health care providers attempt to negotiate lower prices for products such as the ones we develop and sell.. 20. With the continued uncertainty regarding the status of the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation, at this time, the Company is not certain as to the impact of federal health care legislation on its business.. The 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation subjects manufacturers of medical devices to an excise tax of 2.3% on certain U.S. sales of medical devices beginning in January 2013. This excise tax was suspended in December 2017 for two additional years, however, if eventually implemented, this excise tax will likely increase our expenses in the future.. Further, the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation includes the Open Payments Act (formerly referred to as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act), which, in conjunction with its implementing regulations, requires certain manufacturers of certain drugs, biologics, and devices that are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program to report annually certain payments or \"transfers of value\" provided to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report annually ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. We provided reports under the Open Payments Act to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS. The failure to report appropriate data accurately, timely, and completely could subject us to significant financial penalties. Other countries and several states currently have similar laws and more may enact similar legislation.. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Any cost containment measures or other health care system reforms that are adopted could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to commercialize our existing and future products successfully.. Because our design, development and manufacturing capabilities are limited, we may rely on third parties to design, develop, manufacture or supply some of our products. An inability to find additional or alternate sources for these services and products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We have used third-party design and development sources to assist in the design and development of our medical device products. In the future, we may choose to use additional third-party sources for the design and development of our products. If these design and development partners are unable to provide their services in the timeframe or to the performance level that we require, we may not be able to establish a contract and obtain a sufficient alternative supply from another supplier on a timely basis and in the manner that we require.. Our products require precise, high quality manufacturing. We and our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities to ensure strict compliance with the quality systems regulations, current \"good manufacturing practices\" and other applicable government regulations and corresponding standards. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with QSR, we may experience manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for our products, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business.. Any performance failure by us or on the part of our design and development partners or contract manufacturers could delay product development or regulatory clearance or approval of our products, or commercialization of our products and future products, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. In addition, our dependence on any third party for design, development or manufacturing could adversely affect our future profit margins. Our ability to replace any then-existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and, in the case of Class III devices, the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before manufacturing can begin. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all.. We may become subject to potential product liability claims, and we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the design, testing, manufacture, sale and distribution of our products and each of our product candidates that we are seeking to introduce to the market. Surgical medical devices involve significant risks of serious complications, including bleeding, nerve injury, paralysis, infection, and even death. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or in our inability to secure coverage in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, if our product liability insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may have to pay the excess of this award out of our cash reserves, which could significantly harm our financial condition. If longer-term patient results and experience indicate that our products or any component of a product causes tissue damage, motor impairment or other adverse effects, we could be subject to significant liability. A product liability claim, even one without merit, could harm our reputation in the industry, lead to significant legal fees, and result in the diversion of management's attention from managing our business.. 21"
