[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  The following risk factors should be considered, in addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, when evaluating Tredegar and its businesses.. PE Films. • PE Films is highly dependent on sales associated with its top five customers, the largest of which is P&G.  PE Films' top five customers comprised approximately 26%, 29% and 32% of Tredegar's consolidated net sales, in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, with net sales to P&G alone comprising approximately 13%, 16% and 19% in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  The loss or significant reduction of sales associated with one or more of these customers without replacement by new business could have a material adverse effect on the Company.  Other factors that could adversely affect the business include, by way of example, (i) failure by a key customer to achieve success or maintain share in markets in which they sell products containing PE Films' materials, (ii) key customers using products developed by others that replace PE Films' business with such customer, (iii) delays in a key customer rolling out products utilizing new technologies developed by PE Films and (iv) operational decisions by a key customer that result in component substitution, inventory reductions and similar changes.  While PE Films is undertaking efforts to expand its customer base, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful, or that they will offset any delay or loss of sales and profits associated with these large customers.. In recent years, PE Films lost substantial sales volume due to product transitions and incurred other sales losses associated with various customers. PE Films anticipates a significant product transition after 2018 in the personal care operating segment of the PE Films reporting segment.  PE Films currently estimates that this will adversely impact the annual sales of the business unit by $70 million sometime between 2019 and 2021.  PE Films has been increasing its R&D spending (an increase of $6 million in 2017 versus 2014), expects to invest capital, and is accelerating sales and marketing efforts to capture growth and diversify its customer base and product offerings in personal care products, but there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or that they will offset any loss of business due to product transitions. The overall timing and net change in personal care's revenues and profits and capital expenditures needed to support growth during this transition period are uncertain at this time.. PE Films also anticipates that, over the next few years, there is an increased risk that a portion of its film used in surface protection applications will be made obsolete by possible customer product transitions to less costly alternative processes or materials.  PE Films estimates on a preliminary basis that the annual adverse impact on ongoing operating profit from customer shifts to alternative processes or materials in surface protection is in the range of $5 to $10 million. Given the technological and commercial complexity involved in bringing these alternative processes or materials to market, PE Films is very uncertain as to the timing and ultimate amount of the possible transitions.  In response, the Company is aggressively pursuing new surface protection products, applications and customers, but there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or that they will offset any loss of business due to product transitions.. • PE Films and its customers operate in highly competitive markets.  PE Films competes on product innovation, quality, price and service, and its businesses and their customers operate in highly competitive markets.  Global market conditions continue to exacerbate the Company's exposure to margin compression due to competitive forces, especially as certain products move into the later stages of their product life cycles.  In addition, the changing dynamics of consumer products retailing, including the impact of on-line retailers such as Amazon, is creating price and margin pressure on the customers of PE Films' personal care business.  While PE Films continually works to identify new business opportunities with new and existing customers, primarily through the development of new products with improved performance and/or cost characteristics, there can be no assurances that such efforts will be successful or that they will offset business lost from competitive dynamics or customer product transitions.. • Failure of PE Films' customers, who are subject to cyclical downturns, to achieve success or maintain market share could adversely impact PE Films' sales and operating margins.  PE Films' plastic films serve as components for, or are used in the production of, various consumer products sold worldwide.  A customer's ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market those products is integral to PE Films' success.  Also, consumers of premium products made with or using PE Films' components may shift to less premium or less expensive products, reducing the demand for PE Films' plastic films.  Cyclical downturns may negatively affect businesses that use PE Films' plastic film products, which could adversely affect sales and operating margins.. • The Company's inability to protect its intellectual property rights or its infringement of the intellectual property rights of others could have a material adverse impact on PE Films.  PE Films operates in an industry where its significant customers and competitors have substantial intellectual property portfolios.  The continued success of PE Films' business depends on its ability not only to protect its own technologies and trade secrets, but also to develop and sell new products. 5. that do not infringe upon existing patents or threaten existing customer relationships.  Intellectual property litigation is very costly and could result in substantial expense and diversions of Company resources, both of which could adversely affect its consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, there may be no effective legal recourse against infringement of the Company's intellectual property by third parties, whether due to limitations on enforcement of rights in foreign jurisdictions or as a result of other factors.. • An unstable economic environment could have a disruptive impact on PE Films' supply chain.  Certain raw materials used in manufacturing PE Films' products are sourced from single suppliers, and PE Films may not be able to quickly or inexpensively re-source from other suppliers.  The risk of damage or disruption to its supply chain may increase if and when different suppliers consolidate their product portfolios, experience financial distress or disruption of manufacturing operations.  Failure to take adequate steps to effectively manage such events, which are intensified when a product is procured from a single supplier or location, could adversely affect PE Films' consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to restore its supply chain.. • Our cost saving initiatives may not achieve the results we anticipate.  PE Films has undertaken and will continue to undertake cost reduction initiatives to consolidate certain production, improve operating efficiencies and generate cost savings. PE Films cannot be certain that it will be able to complete these initiatives as planned or that the estimated operating efficiencies or cost savings from such activities will be fully realized or maintained over time. In addition, PE Films may not be successful in moving production to other facilities or timely qualifying new production equipment.  Failure to complete these initiatives could adversely affect PE Films' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Flexible Packaging Films. • Overcapacity in Latin American polyester film production and a history of uncertain economic conditions in Brazil could adversely impact the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Flexible Packaging Films. Competition in Brazil, Terphane's primary market, has been exacerbated by global overcapacity in the polyester industry generally, and by particularly acute overcapacity in Latin America.  Additional PET capacity from a competitor in Latin America came on line in September 2017.  These factors, plus a recent period of unfavorable economic and political conditions in Brazil, have resulted in significant competitive pricing pressures and U.S. Dollar equivalent margin compression.. For flexible packaging films produced in Brazil, variable conversion, fixed conversion and sales, general and administrative costs for operations in Brazil have been adversely impacted by inflation in Brazil that is higher than in the U.S.  Flexible Packaging Films is exposed to additional foreign exchange translation risk because almost 90% of Flexible Packaging Films' Brazilian sales are quoted or priced in U.S. Dollars while a large part of its Brazilian costs are quoted or priced in Brazilian Real.  This mismatch, together with a variety of economic variables impacting currency exchange rates, causes volatility that could negatively or positively impact operating profit for Flexible Packaging Films.. Tredegar has attempted to mitigate these impacts through new product offerings, cost saving measures, a currency hedge entered into in 2017, and manufacturing efficiency initiatives, but these efforts to-date have not been sufficient to prevent a significant decline in the operating profit for Flexible Packaging Films since the acquisition of Terphane in October 2011 and continuing efforts may not be successful, which could further adversely impact Flexible Packaging Films' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. • Governmental failure to extend anti-dumping duties in Brazil on imported products or prevent competitors from circumventing such duties could adversely impact Flexible Packaging Films.  In recent years, excess global capacity in the industry has led to increased competitive pressures from imports into Brazil.  The Company believes that these conditions have shifted the competitive environment from a regional to a global landscape and have driven price convergence and lower product margins for Flexible Packaging Films. Favorable anti-dumping rulings are in effect for products imported from China, Egypt, India, Mexico, UAE and Turkey.  In January 2018, the Brazilian government opened new anti-dumping investigations for products imported from Peru and Bahrain. Competitors not currently subject to anti-dumping duties may choose to utilize their excess capacity by selling product in Brazil, which may result in pricing pressures that Flexible Packaging Films may not be able to offset with cost savings measures and/or manufacturing efficiency initiatives.  There can be no assurance that efforts to impose anti-dumping constraints on products imported to Brazil from Peru and Bahrain, or to extend duties beyond 2018 on products imported from certain other countries, will be successful.. 6. Aluminum Extrusions. • Sales volume and profitability of Aluminum Extrusions is cyclical and seasonal and highly dependent on economic conditions of end-use markets in the U.S., particularly in the construction sector.  Aluminum Extrusions' end-use markets can be cyclical and subject to seasonal swings in volume.  Because of the capital intensive nature and level of fixed costs inherent in the aluminum extrusions business, the percentage drop in operating profits in a cyclical downturn will likely exceed the percentage drop in volume.  In addition, during an economic slowdown, excess industry capacity often drives increased pricing pressure in many end-use markets as competitors protect their position with key customers.  Any benefits associated with cost reductions and productivity improvements may not be sufficient to offset the adverse effects on profitability from pricing and margin pressure and higher bad debts (including a greater chance of loss associated with customers defaulting on fixed-price forward sales contracts) that usually accompany a downturn.  In addition, higher energy costs can further reduce profits unless offset by price increases or cost reductions and productivity improvements.. • Failure to prevent competitors from circumventing anti-dumping and countervailing duties, or a reduction in such duties, could adversely impact Aluminum Extrusions.  As of April 2017, the antidumping duty and countervailing duty orders on aluminum extrusions from China will remain in place until the next five-year review of the orders.  Chinese and other overseas manufacturers continue to try to circumvent the antidumping and countervailing orders to avoid duties.  A failure by, or the inability of, U.S. trade officials to curtail efforts to circumvent these duties, or the potential reduction of applicable duties pursuant to annual reviews of the orders, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Aluminum Extrusions.. • The imposition of tariffs or duties on imported aluminum products could significantly increase the price of Aluminum Extrusions' main raw material, which could adversely impact demand for its products. On April 27, 2017, President Trump directed the U.S. Department of Commerce (\"DOC\") to begin an investigation under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act regarding the effects on U.S. economic and national security of aluminum imports into the U.S.  On January 19, 2018, the DOC formally submitted to President Trump the results of its investigation, which included recommendations from the DOC that the President impose tariffs or quotas, or both, on imports into the U.S. of primary aluminum and semi-fabricated aluminum products. The President has 90 days to decide on any potential action based on the findings of the investigation. It is unknown at this time if the President will take any action as a result of the Section 232 investigation, and, if action is taken, what the impact of that action would be on Bonnell Aluminum. However, the President could impose tariffs or quotas on aluminum imports to the U.S. Bonnell Aluminum and other major U.S. aluminum extruders are net importers of aluminum raw materials. If high tariffs are imposed on imported aluminum ingots purchased by Bonnell, then the aggregate cost of aluminum extrusions produced by Bonnell could rise significantly. Bonnell would expect to be able to pass through the higher aluminum costs to its customers. However, a higher cost for aluminum extrusions could result in product substitutions in place of aluminum extrusions, which could materially and negatively affect Bonnell and other U.S. aluminum extrusion businesses and their results of operations. If tariffs were imposed on all primary aluminum imports into the U.S., then aluminum extruders located outside the U.S. who were not subject to similar tariffs in the country where they produced extrusions, could have a price advantage relative to U.S.-based aluminum extruders.. • Competition from China could increase significantly if China is granted market economy status by the World Trade Organization.  China has launched a formal complaint at the World Trade Organization challenging its non-market economy status, claiming that as of December 11, 2016, China's transition period as a non-market economy under its Accession Protocol to the World Trade Organization ended.  China believes with respect to all Chinese-made products that it should receive market economy status and the rights attendant to that status under World Trade Organization rules.  The U.S. and the European Union have each rejected that interpretation.  If China is granted market economy status, the extent to which the U.S. antidumping laws will be able to limit unfair trade practices from China will likely be limited because the U.S. government will be forced to utilize Chinese prices and costs that do not reflect market principles in antidumping duty investigations involving China, which would ultimately limit the level of antidumping duties applied to unfairly traded Chinese imports.  The volume of unfairly traded imports of Chinese aluminum extrusions would likely increase as a result and this, in turn, would likely create substantial pricing pressure on Aluminum Extrusions' products and could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Aluminum Extrusions.. 7. • The markets for Aluminum Extrusions' products are highly competitive with product quality, service, delivery performance and price being the principal competitive factors.  Aluminum Extrusions has approximately 1,700 customers that are in a variety of end-use markets within the broad categories of building and construction, distribution, automotive and other transportation, machinery and equipment, electrical and consumer durables.  No single customer exceeds 4% of Aluminum Extrusions' net sales. Future success and prospects depend on Aluminum Extrusions' ability to provide superior service, high quality products, timely delivery and competitive pricing to retain existing customers and participate in overall industry cross-cycle growth.  Failure in any of these areas could lead to a loss of customers, which could have an adverse material effect on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Aluminum Extrusions.. • Aluminum Extrusions may not have sufficient capacity to meet its growth targets and service all of its customers.  Aluminum Extrusions' ability to grow and service existing customers is closely tied to having sufficient capacity.  In recent years, increased demand, primarily from the nonresidential building and construction sector, has substantially increased Aluminum Extrusions' average capacity utilization.. General. • Tredegar has an underfunded defined benefit (pension) plan.  Tredegar sponsors a pension plan that covers certain hourly and salaried employees in the U.S. The plan was substantially frozen to new participants in 2007, and frozen to benefit accruals for active participants in 2014.   As of December 31, 2017, the plan was underfunded under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") measures by $91.8 million. Tredegar expects that it will be required to make a cash contribution of approximately $5.3 million to its underfunded pension plan in 2018, and may be required to make higher cash contributions in future periods depending on the level of interest rates and investment returns on plan assets.. • An impairment of our identifiable intangible assets could have a material non-cash adverse impact on our results of operations.  As of December 31, 2017, reporting units in PE Films and Aluminum Extrusions carried goodwill balances of $104 million and $24 million, respectively.  PE Films' goodwill balance was carried by its operating units, Personal Care Films and Surface Protection Films, at $47 million and $57 million, respectively.  The Company assesses goodwill for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable, or, at a minimum, on an annual basis. The valuation of goodwill depends on a variety of factors, including the success in achieving the Company's business goals, global market and economic conditions, earnings growth and expected cash flows, and goodwill impairment valuations can be sensitive to assumptions associated with such factors.  Failure to successfully achieve projections could result in future impairments.  Impairments to goodwill and identifiable intangible assets may also be caused by factors outside the Company's control, such as increasing competitive pricing pressures, changes in foreign exchange rates, lower than expected sales and profit growth rates, and various other factors. Significant and unanticipated changes could require a non-cash charge for impairment in a future period, which may significantly affect the Company's results of operations in the period of such charge.. • Noncompliance with any of the covenants in the Company's $400 million revolving credit facility, which matures in March of 2021, could result in all debt under the agreement outstanding at such time becoming due and limiting its borrowing capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on consolidated financial condition and liquidity.  The credit agreement governing Tredegar's revolving credit facility contains restrictions and financial covenants that, if violated, could restrict the Company's operational and financial flexibility. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, would result in all outstanding debt under the credit facility at such time becoming due, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition and liquidity.. • Tredegar's performance is influenced by costs incurred by its operating companies, including, for example, the cost of raw materials and energy.  These costs include, without limitation, the cost of resin (the raw material on which PE Films primarily depends), PTA and MEG (the raw materials on which Flexible Packaging Films primarily depends), aluminum (the raw material on which Aluminum Extrusions primarily depends), natural gas (the principal fuel necessary for Aluminum Extrusions' plants to operate), electricity and diesel fuel.  Resin, aluminum and natural gas prices are extremely volatile as shown in the charts in the Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures section.  The Company attempts to mitigate the effects of increased costs through price increases and contractual pass-through provisions, but there are no assurances that higher prices can effectively be passed through to customers or that Tredegar will be able to offset fully or on a timely basis the effects of higher raw material and energy costs through price increases or pass-through arrangements.  Further, the Company's cost control efforts may not be sufficient to offset any increases in raw material, energy or other costs.. 8. • Tredegar may not be able to successfully integrate strategic acquisitions.  Acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of Futura, involve special risks, including, without limitation, meeting revenue, margin, working capital and capital expenditure expectations that substantially drive valuation, diversion of management's time and attention from existing businesses, the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and potential difficulties in integrating acquired businesses and achieving anticipated operational improvements.  Acquired businesses may not achieve expected results.. • Tredegar is subject to various environmental laws and regulations and could become exposed to material liabilities and costs associated with such laws.  The Company is subject to various environmental obligations and could become subject to additional obligations in the future.  Changes in environmental laws and regulations, or their application, including, but not limited to, those relating to global climate change, could subject Tredegar to significant additional capital expenditures and operating expenses.  Moreover, future developments in federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations are difficult to predict.  Environmental laws have become and are expected to continue to become increasingly strict.  As a result, Tredegar expects to be subject to new environmental laws and regulations.  However, any such changes are uncertain and, therefore, it is not possible for the Company to predict with certainty the amount of additional capital expenditures or operating expenses that could be necessary for compliance with respect to any such changes.  See Government Regulation in \"Item 1. Business\" for a further discussion of this risk factor.. • Material disruptions at one of the Company's major manufacturing facilities could negatively impact financial results.  Tredegar believes its facilities are operated in compliance with applicable local laws and regulations and that the Company has implemented measures to minimize the risks of disruption at its facilities.  Such a disruption could be a result of any number of events, including but not limited to: an equipment failure with repairs requiring long lead times, labor stoppages or shortages, utility disruptions, constraints on the supply or delivery of critical raw materials, and severe weather conditions.  A material disruption in one of the Company's operating locations could negatively impact production and its consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. • An information technology system failure may adversely affect the business. Tredegar relies on information technology systems to transact its business.  An information technology system failure due to computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, cybersecurity attacks, power interruptions, hardware failures, fire, natural disasters, human error, or other causes could disrupt its operation and prevent it from being able to process transactions with its customers, operate its manufacturing facilities, and properly report transactions in a timely manner.  A significant, protracted information technology system failure may adversely affect Tredegar's results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.. • An inability to renegotiate the Company's collective bargaining agreements could adversely impact its consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Some of the Company's employees are represented by labor unions under various collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates.  Tredegar may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate collective bargaining agreements when they expire, which could result in strikes or work stoppages or higher labor costs.  In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at the Company's facilities in the future.  Any such work stoppages (or potential work stoppages) could negatively impact Tredegar's ability to manufacture its products and adversely affect its consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. • Tredegar's valuation of its $7.5 million cost-basis investment in kaléo is volatile and uncertain.  Tredegar uses the fair value method to account for its fully-diluted ownership interest of approximately 20% in kaleo, Inc. (\"kaléo\"), a privately held specialty pharmaceutical company.  There is no active secondary market for buying or selling stock in kaléo.  The Company's fair value estimates can fluctuate materially between reporting periods, primarily due to variances in its performance versus expectations.  Additionally, the estimated fair value of the Company's investment in kaléo could decline.  Kaléo's first product, an epinephrine auto-injector, was licensed to sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC (\"Sanofi\") in 2009.  Sanofi commenced commercial sales in the first quarter of 2013.  Kaléo subsequently developed and commenced commercial sales of its second product, a naloxone auto-injector, in the third quarter of 2014.   In the fourth quarter of 2015, Sanofi announced a voluntary recall of the product and subsequently returned the rights to kaléo in 2016.  Kaléo relaunched the epinephrine auto-injector in the U.S. in the first quarter of 2017.  See Note 4 to the Notes to Financial Statements for more information.. 9"
