[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company also may impair the Company's business operations and financial condition.. Our TreeHouse 2020 restructuring plan could result, from time to time, in the impairment of assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, and we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of this plan in the anticipated time frame or at all.. On August 3, 2017, the Company announced the TreeHouse 2020 restructuring plan, which will be executed in multiple phases over the next several years. The plan targets a 300 basis point operating margin improvement by the end of 2020 through a comprehensive program of category and customer portfolio management, as well as manufacturing and supply chain optimization. Phase 1 of TreeHouse 2020 consists of the closure of the Company's Brooklyn Park, Minnesota and Plymouth, Indiana facilities as well as the downsizing of the Dothan, Alabama facility. On January 31, 2018, the Company announced its intention to fully close the Battle Creek, Michigan facility. Partial closure of this facility was announced on November 3, 2016. On February 15. 2018 the Company announced its intention to close the Visalia, California facility. TreeHouse 2020 could result, from time to time, in significant financial charges for the impairment of assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. The calculation of anticipated charges, as well as cost savings and other benefits, resulting from our corporate restructuring are based on estimates and assumptions which are subject to uncertainties. If any of our estimates or assumptions prove to be inaccurate, we may incur greater than expected charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable or at all, and there can be no assurance that any benefits we realize from these restructuring efforts will be sufficient to offset the restructuring charges and other costs that we expect to incur. If our restructuring measures are not successful, we may need to undertake additional cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. If we fail to realize the anticipated benefits from these measures, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. In addition, we expect that our restructuring plan will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. These and related demands on our resources may divert the Company's attention from existing core businesses, potentially disrupting our operations and adversely affecting our relationships with suppliers and customers. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected.. Our indebtedness and our ability to service our debt could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $2,574.6 million of outstanding indebtedness, excluding $28.8 million of unamortized deferred financing costs, a $498.8 million term loan (\"Term Loan A\") maturing on January 31, 2025, a $897.8 million term loan (\"Term Loan A-1\" and, together with Term Loan A, the \"Term Loans\") maturing on February 1, 2023, $400.0 million of 4.875% notes due March 15, 2022 (the \"2022 Notes\"), $775.0 million of 6.0% notes due February 15, 2024 (the \"2024 Notes\"), and $3.1 million of capital lease obligations and other debt. The Revolving Credit Facility (as defined in \"Sources of Capital\" under Item 7) and the Term Loans are known collectively as the \"Credit Agreement.\" If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described herein would increase. The degree to which we are leveraged could have adverse consequences to us, limiting management's choices in responding to business, economic, regulatory and other competitive conditions. In addition, our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.. Disruptions in the financial markets could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business.. United States capital credit markets have experienced volatility, dislocations, and liquidity disruptions that caused tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. Capital and credit markets and the U.S. and global economies could be affected by additional volatility or economic downturns in the future. Events affecting the credit markets could have an adverse effect on other financial markets in the United States, which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of. 9. common stock or other equity securities. There can be no assurance that future volatility or disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets, or a slowdown in the general economy. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business and could possibly increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness.. The terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock; prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain subordinated debt; issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities; make loans and investments; sell assets; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets.. In addition, our Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a certain consolidated net leverage ratio tested on a quarterly basis. Our ability to meet these financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet the required ratio.. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under the agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross acceleration or cross default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the Credit Agreement may permit our lenders to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under those facilities. In the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we may be:. •  limited in how we conduct our business;. •  unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or. •  unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. In addition, our financial results, substantial indebtedness and credit ratings could materially adversely affect the availability and terms of our financing.. Increases in interest rates may negatively affect earnings.. As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate principal amount of our debt instruments with exposure to interest rate risk was approximately $1,396.5 million, based on the outstanding debt balance of our Credit Agreement. As a result, higher interest rates will increase the cost of servicing our financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk, and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. In June 2016, we entered into $500.0 million of long-term interest rate swap agreements to lock into a fixed LIBOR rate base, beginning on January 31, 2017 and ending on February 28, 2020. As of December 31, 2017, each one percentage point change in LIBOR rates would result in an approximate $9.0 million change in the annual cash interest expense, before any principal payment, on our financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk, including the impact of the $500.0 million in interest rate swap agreements that were effective in 2017.. Fluctuations in foreign currencies may adversely affect earnings.. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company's foreign subsidiaries purchase various inputs that are based in U.S. dollars; accordingly, the profitability of the foreign subsidiaries are subject to foreign currency transaction gains and losses that affect earnings. We manage the impact of foreign currency fluctuations related to raw material purchases using foreign currency contracts. We are also exposed to fluctuations in the value of our foreign currency investment in our Canadian. 10. subsidiaries, which includes Canadian dollar denominated intercompany notes. We translate the Canadian and Italian assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Accordingly, we are exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings due to fluctuations in the values of the Canadian dollar and euro, which may negatively impact the Company's results of operations and financial position.. We operate in the highly competitive and rapidly changing food industry.. The food industry is highly competitive, and faces increased competition as a result of consolidation, channel proliferation and the growth of online food retailers and new market participants. We face competition across our product lines from other companies that have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. Some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in our various business segments and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Category sales and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products.. Some customer buying decisions are based on a periodic bidding process in which the successful bidder is assured the selling of its selected product to the food retailer, super center, mass merchandiser, or foodservice distributors, until the next bidding process. Our sales volume may decrease significantly if our offer is too high and we lose the ability to sell products through these channels, even temporarily. Alternatively, we risk reducing our margins if our offer is successful but below our desired price point. Either of these outcomes may adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, competition can impact our ability to pass on increased costs or otherwise increase prices.. As new and evolving distribution channels acquire greater attention with consumers, we will need to evaluate whether our business methods and processes can be utilized or adopted in a manner that permits us to successfully serve these distribution channels. Our inability to offer competitive products to these customer segments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, which may result in decreased demand for our products.. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes, quality demands, eating habits, and overall purchasing trends of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time, and our failure to anticipate, identify, or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which would adversely affect our operating results and profitability.. As we are dependent upon a limited number of customers, the loss of a significant customer, or consolidation of our customer base, could adversely affect our operating results.. A limited number of customers represent a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. Our operating results are contingent on our ability to maintain our sales to these customers. The competition to supply products to these high volume customers is very strong. We expect that a significant portion of our net sales will continue to arise from a small number of customers, consisting primarily of traditional grocery retailers, mass merchandisers, and foodservice operators. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 60.6% of our consolidated net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our largest customer, Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 22.0% of our consolidated net sales. Costco accounted for approximately 10.3% of consolidated net sales in 2017. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated net sales. These customers typically do not enter into written contracts with fixed purchase commitments, and the contracts that they do enter into generally are terminable at will. Our customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, and customer service performance. If our product sales to one or more of these customers decline, this reduction may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Further, over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have experienced a consolidation trend, which has resulted in mass merchandisers and non-traditional grocers, such as ecommerce grocers with direct-to-consumer channels, gaining market share. As our customer base continues to consolidate, we expect competition to intensify as we compete for the business of fewer large customers. As this trend continues and such customers grow larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, or increased promotional programs. If we are unable to use our scale, product innovation, and category leadership positions to respond to these demands, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if the surviving entity of a consolidation or similar transaction is not a current customer of the Company, we may lose significant business once held with the acquired retailer.. Consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers' business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. For example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases.. 11. Increases in input costs, such as ingredients, packaging materials, and fuel costs, could adversely affect earnings.. The costs of raw materials, packaging materials, and fuel have varied widely in recent years and future changes in such costs may cause our results of operations and our operating margins to fluctuate significantly. We are also subject to delays caused by interruptions in production of raw materials based on conditions not within our control. Such conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of suppliers, weather, crop conditions, transportation shortages and interruptions, natural disasters, sustainability issues or other catastrophic events. While individual input cost changes varied throughout the year, with certain costs increasing and others decreasing, input costs were in the aggregate unfavorable in 2017 compared to 2016. We expect the volatile nature of these costs to continue with an overall long-term upward trend.. We manage the impact of increases in the costs of raw materials, wherever possible, by locking in prices on quantities required to meet our production requirements. The price of oil has been particularly volatile recently and there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will result in the optimal price. In addition, we attempt to offset the effect of such increases by raising prices to our customers. However, changes in the prices of our products may lag behind changes in the costs of our materials. Competitive pressures may also limit our ability to quickly raise prices in response to increased raw materials, packaging, and fuel costs. Accordingly, if we are unable to increase our prices to offset increasing raw material, packaging, and fuel costs, our operating profits and margins could be materially affected. In addition, in instances of declining input costs, customers may look for price reductions in situations where we have locked into purchases at higher costs.. Our private label and regionally branded products may not be able to compete successfully with nationally branded products.. For sales of private label products to retailers, the principal competitive factors are price, product quality, and quality of service. For sales of private label products to consumers, the principal competitive factors are price and product quality. In many cases, competitors with nationally branded products have a competitive advantage over private label products due to name recognition. In addition, when branded competitors focus on price and promotion, the environment for private label producers becomes more challenging because the price differential between private label products and branded products may become less significant.. Competition to obtain shelf space for our branded products with retailers is primarily based on the expected or historical performance of our product sales relative to our competitors. The principal competitive factors for sales of our branded products to consumers are brand recognition and loyalty, product quality, promotion, and price. Some of our branded competitors have significantly greater resources and brand recognition than we do.. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause us to lose sales, which may require us to lower prices, increase the use of discounting or promotional programs, or increase marketing expenditures, each of which would adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability.. We may not be able to successfully integrate and manage the Private Brands Business.. We acquired the Private Brands Business on February 1, 2016. As a result of this acquisition, the size of our business increased significantly. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to manage this expanded business, including completing its integration into our existing businesses. The integration process is a multi-year, complex, costly, and time-consuming process. Any failure to manage our expanded business or to realize expected benefits of the acquisition could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. We may be unsuccessful in our future acquisition endeavors, if any, which may have an adverse effect on our business.. Our future growth depends, in large part, on our acquisition of additional food manufacturing businesses, products or processes. We may be unable to identify suitable targets, opportunistic or otherwise, for acquisition or make acquisitions at favorable prices. If we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition would depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms.. Acquisitions involve risks, including those associated with integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate technologies, and personnel of acquired companies; managing geographically dispersed operations; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience; unknown risks; and the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies. We may not successfully integrate businesses or technologies we acquire in the future and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our results of operations due to, among other things, the incurrence of debt, one-time write-offs of goodwill, and amortization expenses of other intangible assets. In addition, future acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities.. 12. We may be subject to product liability claims for misbranded, adulterated, contaminated, or spoiled food products.. We sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, misbranding, product tampering, and other adulteration of food products. Consumption of a misbranded, adulterated, contaminated, or spoiled product may result in personal illness or injury. We could be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to an actual or alleged illness or injury, and we could incur liabilities that are not insured or that exceed our insurance coverage. Even if product liability claims against us are not successful or fully pursued, these claims could be costly and time consuming, and may require management to spend time defending the claims rather than operating our business. A product that has been actually or allegedly misbranded or becomes adulterated could result in product withdrawals, product recalls, destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, and substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Any of these events, including a significant product liability judgment against us, could result in a loss of confidence in our food products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. New laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could adversely affect our business.. The food industry is subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to food safety, food labeling, and environmental matters. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, international trade, immigration, and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers. Changes in these laws or regulations, or the introduction of new laws or regulations, could increase the costs of doing business for the Company, our customers, or suppliers, or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected.. Increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations for us. We use natural gas, diesel fuel, and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. Legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our profitability. In addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience, and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures.. In addition, on January 20, 2017, Donald J. Trump was inaugurated as the president of the United States. As a presidential candidate, President Trump expressed apprehension toward existing trade agreements, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"). Any changes to NAFTA could impact our Canadian operations. Changes in U.S. political, regulatory and economic conditions or laws and policies governing U.S. tax laws and foreign trade in countries where we or our customers operate, in particular Canada and Italy, could adversely affect our operating results and our business.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law new legislation that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The newly enacted federal income tax law contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including, but not limited to, a reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings, limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income in respect of net operating losses and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. The changes are effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017.  Notwithstanding the favorable reduction in the corporate income tax rate, further analysis is required to understand the full impact of the new federal tax law. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.. If we are unable to attract, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce, it could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our continued growth requires us to attract, hire, retain and develop key employees, including our executive officers and senior management team, and maintain a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. We compete to attract and hire highly skilled employees and our own employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies. Competition could cause us to lose talented employees, and unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge and result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees.. 13. On October 29, 2017, Robert B. Aiken, Jr. resigned as President and Chief Operating Officer and Sam K. Reed, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, assumed the role of President. We have initiated an external search to recruit a new Chief Executive Officer to succeed Mr. Reed in such capacity which is being led by our Board of Directors. No assurance can be made, however, as to when we will hire a new Chief Executive Officer. The existing management team is actively managing the business in accordance with the business strategy approved by our Board of Directors. However, if we are unable to hire a new Chief Executive Officer in a timely manner, it may adversely impact our ability to execute on our strategic and operational plans.. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately.. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, system failures, security breaches, cyber security attacks, and viruses. If we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer business disruption, theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or customer information and unauthorized access to personnel, customer, or otherwise confidential information. Such unauthorized disclosure of information may lead to financial or reputational damage or penalties, which could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, or lead to claims against the Company or governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability and ultimately harm our business. To the extent that our business is interrupted or data is lost, destroyed, or inappropriately used or disclosed, such disruptions could adversely affect our competitive position, relationships with our customers, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business or cause us to incur additional legal fees and costs. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against the damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. Changes in weather conditions, natural disasters, and other events beyond our control could adversely affect our results of operations.. Changes in weather conditions, climate changes, and natural disasters such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, or pestilence, may affect the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials. Additionally, these events could result in reduced supplies of raw materials. Our competitors may be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their suppliers and operations. Further, changes in weather could impact consumer demand and our earnings may be affected by seasonal factors including the seasonality of our supplies and such changes in consumer demand. Damage or disruption to our production or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to reduce the likelihood or mitigate the potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.. Disruption of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our ability to manufacture, move, and sell products is critical to our success. We are subject to damage or disruption to raw material supplies or our manufacturing or distribution capabilities (in particular, to the extent that our raw materials are sourced globally) due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, adverse changes in political conditions or political unrest, pandemic, strikes, import restrictions, or other factors that could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.. Our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages by our employees.. Currently, collective bargaining agreements cover a significant number of our full-time distribution, production, and maintenance employees. A dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could result in production interruptions caused by work stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur, our results of operations could be adversely affected."
