[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are risks we believe are material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, also may impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, prospects or ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the risks described below, the information contained under the heading \"Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements\" and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to invest in our securities.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. We have not yet made any target investment.. We have not yet made any target investment, and if we fail to do so within a reasonable time or on acceptable terms, such failure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to qualify for taxation as a REIT, and ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders, and could cause the value of our securities to decline.. Until appropriate investments are identified, we may invest our capital in interest or dividend paying, short term investments that are consistent with our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC and maintain our exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act. These short term investments are expected to provide lower earnings than we will seek to achieve from our target investments.. 31. Table of Contents. We cannot assure our shareholders of our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders, and any distributions that we make may constitute a return of capital to our shareholders.. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to specified adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC. We intend to make distributions of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income in each year. The timing and amount of any distributions will be determined at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend on various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our financial condition, our results of operations, our liquidity, our capital requirements, our core earnings, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements, general economic conditions in the United States, requirements of the IRC to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC and restrictions under the laws of Maryland. Our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders may be negatively impacted by adverse changes in our operating results.. We plan to declare and pay our first distribution to our shareholders after fully investing the capital raised in our IPO and concurrent private placement; however, we are not currently committed to any specific date when we will first declare and pay our first distribution or any subsequent distributions. If our earnings are at any time insufficient to fund distributions to our shareholders at the level which may in the future be established by our Board of Trustees, we may reduce the amount of distributions we pay or we may pay distributions to our shareholders with the proceeds of borrowings or other leverage that we may establish or from sales of our assets. The use of borrowings or sale proceeds for distributions could be dilutive to our shareholders' ownership interests in us. In addition, funding distributions to our shareholders from our future borrowings or asset sales may constitute a return of capital to our investors, which would have the effect of reducing our shareholders' bases in their common shares.. Competition may limit our ability to make desirable investments.. Our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to originate or acquire investments on attractive terms. In originating or acquiring our investments, we compete with a variety of institutional investors, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, public and private funds (including funds or investors that our Manager, RMR LLC or their subsidiaries may sponsor, advise or manage), banks, credit unions, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Some of these investors have raised, or may raise, significant amounts of capital and may have the same or similar investment objectives as we have. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us, such as the U.S. Government or its agencies. Many of our competitors are not subject to the operating constraints associated with REIT tax or SEC reporting compliance or maintenance of an exemption from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or make different risk assessments than we do, which may allow them to consider a wider variety of investments or offer more aggressive pricing or other terms, for example, higher LTV ratios or lower interest rates than we are willing to offer or accept. In addition, recent and possible future changes in financial regulatory regime regulations and enforcement under the current U.S. presidential administration could decrease the current restrictions on banks and other financial institutions and allow them to compete with us for investment opportunities that were previously not available to them. As a result, desirable loans and investments in our target investments may become less available to us than we currently expect. In addition, reduced demand for CRE financing could increase competition for available investment opportunities. The competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we cannot assure that we will be able to identify and originate loans or make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives.. Our ability to generate returns for our shareholders through our investment and financing strategies is subject to existing market conditions, and we may make significant changes to these strategies in response to changing market conditions, which could adversely impact our profitability and risk profile.. Our business goals are to preserve our capital and provide our shareholders attractive, risk adjusted returns, primarily by making distributions to our shareholders in amounts equal to our REIT taxable income. We intend to achieve these goals by originating and investing in target assets. In the future, we may, depending on prevailing market conditions, change our investment guidelines in response to opportunities available in different interest rate, economic and credit environments. We may make such changes at any time with the approval of our Board of Trustees but without the consent of our shareholders. Any future changes in our investment policies could adversely impact our profitability and risk profile.. 32. Table of Contents. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business.. Certain investments such as mortgages, B-Notes, mezzanine and other loans (including most loan participations) and preferred equity, in particular, are relatively illiquid investments due to their short life, their potential unsuitability for securitization and the difficulty of recovery in the event of a borrower's default. In addition, certain of our investments may become less liquid after we have made them as a result of delinquencies or defaults, turbulent market conditions or the unavailability to borrowers of refinancing capital, which may make it more difficult for us to dispose of such investments at advantageous prices or in a timely manner. In addition, because most of the loans and securities we will invest in will not be registered under the federal securities laws, we are not able to transfer, sell, pledge or dispose of them except in transactions that are exempt from the registration requirements of, or otherwise in accordance with, those laws. Also, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a publicly traded business entity to the extent that we or our Manager has or could be attributed as having material, non-public information regarding such business entity. We expect many of our investments will be illiquid and, if we are required to liquidate or sell all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. Our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our investments may be concentrated.. While we intend to have a diverse portfolio of investments, we are not required to observe specific diversification criteria. Our investments may at times be concentrated in certain property types or in certain borrowers, or secured by properties concentrated in a limited number of geographic locations. To the extent that our portfolio is concentrated in any property type, in certain borrowers or in any geographic region, the risks in our portfolio will be increased if there are adverse developments or greater risks affecting the particular concentration. Adverse market conditions in certain types of properties, affecting specific borrowers or in the areas where the properties securing or otherwise underlying our investments are located and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply or reduced demand in certain local markets) may have an adverse effect on our business, our financial condition or on our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. Loans secured by properties in transition involve a greater risk of loss than loans secured by stabilized properties.. We may originate or acquire transitional or bridge loans to borrowers who are seeking shorter term capital to be used in acquisitions, construction or repositioning of properties. In a typical transitional loan, the borrower has usually identified a property that the borrower believes has been undermanaged or is located in a recovering market. If the borrower fails to improve the quality of the property's management or the market in which the property is located fails to improve as expected, the borrower may not generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on or refinance the transitional loan, and we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, borrowers often use the proceeds of a conventional mortgage to repay a transitional loan. Transitional loans therefore are subject to risks of the borrowers' inability to obtain refinancing to repay the transitional loans. Losses we suffer with respect to transitional loans could be material.. Our diligence process for investment opportunities may not reveal all facts that may be relevant for an investment, and if we incorrectly evaluate the risks of our investments, we may experience losses.. Prior to our making any investment, our Manager will conduct diligence that it considers reasonable based upon the facts and circumstances of the investment. When conducting diligence, our Manager, in consultation with our Board of Trustees, may be required to evaluate important and complex business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues. We rely principally upon our Manager's personnel and the third party service providers, which they engage on our behalf in conducting diligence of our investment opportunities. Outside consultants, legal advisors, accountants and investment banks may be involved in the diligence process to varying degrees depending on the investment type. Nonetheless, our diligence may not reveal all of the risks associated with our investments. We evaluate our potential investments based upon criteria our Manager deems appropriate for the relevant investment. Our underwriting assumptions and loss estimates may not prove accurate, and actual results may vary from estimates. If we underestimate the risks and potential losses associated with an investment we make, we may experience losses from the investment.. Prepayment of our loans may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and cause us to reduce the distributions we make to our shareholders.. Prepayment rates on our investments, where contractually permitted, will be influenced by changes in current interest rates, significant changes in the performance of underlying real estate assets and a variety of economic and other factors beyond our control. Prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty and no strategy can completely insulate us from increases in such. 33. Table of Contents. rates. In periods of declining interest rates, prepayments on investments generally increase and the proceeds of prepayments received during these periods are likely to be reinvested by us in comparable assets at reduced yields. Conversely, in periods of rising interest rates, prepayments on investments, where contractually permitted, generally decrease, in which case we would not have the prepayment proceeds available to invest in comparable assets at higher yields. We may invest in loans and other assets secured or supported by transitional real estate assets; significant improvement in the performance of such assets may result in prepayments as other financing alternatives become available to the borrower. We expect to be entitled to fees upon the prepayment of our mortgage loans, although we cannot assure that such fees will adequately compensate us as the functional equivalent of a \"make whole\" payment. Furthermore, we may not be able to structure future investments to impose a make whole obligation upon a borrower in the case of an early prepayment. As a result, our income will be reduced, which will have a negative impact on our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. A prolonged economic slowdown, a recession or declining real estate values could impair the performance of our investments and harm our financial condition and results of operations, increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us.. We believe that the risks associated with our business will increase during periods of economic slowdown or recession, especially if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. A prolonged economic slowdown, a recession or declining real estate values could impair the performance of our investments and harm our financial condition and results of operations, increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. For example, the severe economic downturn that began in 2008 limited the availability of real estate debt financing, made leveraged acquisitions and refinancing of real estate more difficult and caused real estate values generally to decline. Declining real estate values will likely reduce the level of new mortgage and other real estate related loan originations since borrowers often use the appreciation in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans if the value of their real estate declines. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our cost on the loan. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect our ability to originate or invest in loans, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and business and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. The loans we originate or invest in are subject to the ability of the property owner to generate net income from operating the property as well as the risks of delinquency and foreclosure.. CRE loans and any other investments that we may make are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income producing property can be adversely affected by, among other things:. • tenant mix and tenant bankruptcies;. • success of tenant businesses;. • property management decisions, including with respect to capital improvements, particularly in older building structures;. • property location, condition and design;. • competition from comparable properties;. • changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments;. • declines in regional or local real estate values;. • declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates;. • changes in interest rates, and in the state of the debt and equity capital markets, including diminished availability or lack of debt financing for CRE;. 34. Table of Contents. • changes in real estate tax rates, tax credits and other operating expenses;. • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions;. • the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses;. • changes in laws and regulations, including fiscal policies, zoning ordinances and environmental legislation, and the related costs of compliance; and. • acts of God, terrorist attacks, social unrest and civil disturbances.. In the event of any default under any CRE mortgage loans held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral (net of our costs to enforce our rights with respect to that collateral) and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations and limit amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under applicable law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process, which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan.. We may need to foreclose on loans that are in default, which could result in losses.. We may find it necessary to foreclose on loans that are in default. Foreclosure processes are often lengthy and expensive. Results of foreclosure processes may be uncertain, as claims may be asserted by borrowers or by other lenders or investors in the borrowers that interfere with enforcement of our rights, such as claims that challenge the validity or enforceability of our loan or the priority or perfection of our mortgage or other security interests. Borrowers may resist foreclosure actions by asserting numerous claims, counterclaims and defenses against us, including, without limitation, lender liability claims and defenses, even when the assertions may have no merit, in an effort to prolong the foreclosure action and seek to force us into a modification of the loan or a buy-out of the loan for less than we are owed. At any time prior to or during the foreclosure proceedings, the borrower may file for bankruptcy, which would have the effect of staying the foreclosure actions and delaying the foreclosure processes and potentially result in reductions or discharges of borrower's debt. Foreclosure may create a negative public perception of the collateral property, resulting in a diminution of its value. Even if we are successful in foreclosing on a mortgage loan, the liquidation proceeds upon sale of the underlying real estate may not be sufficient to recover our investment. Any costs or delays involved in the foreclosure of the loan or a liquidation of the underlying property will reduce the net proceeds realized and, thus, increase the potential for loss.. The CRE loans and other CRE related investments we seek to originate and invest in will expose us to risks associated with real estate investments generally.. We seek to originate and invest in CRE loans and other CRE related investments. Therefore, in addition to the risks discussed above, our business is subject to other risks associated with real estate investment, generally, including:. • economic and market fluctuations;. • political instability or changes;. • changes in environmental, zoning and other laws;. • casualty or condemnation losses;. • regulatory limitations on rents;. • decreases in property values;. • changes in the appeal of properties to tenants;. • changes in supply and demand for CRE properties and debt resulting from the recent growth in CRE debt funds or otherwise;. 35. Table of Contents. • energy supply shortages;. • various uninsured or uninsurable risks;. • natural disasters;. • changes in government regulations, such as rent control;. • changes in the availability of debt financing and/or mortgage funds, which may render the sale or refinancing of properties difficult or impracticable;. • increases in mortgage defaults;. • increases in borrowing rates; and. • negative developments in the economy and/or adverse changes in real estate values generally and other factors that are beyond our control.. We cannot predict the degree to which economic conditions generally, and the conditions for CRE debt investing in particular, will improve or decline. Any declines in the performance of the U.S. and global economies or in the real estate debt markets could have a material adverse effect on us. Market conditions relating to real estate debt investments have evolved since the global financial crisis, which has resulted in a modification to certain loan structures and/or market terms. Any future changes in loan structures or market terms may make it difficult for us to monitor and value our loans and other investments.. REIT distribution requirements and limitations on our ability to access reasonably priced capital may adversely impact our ability to carry out our business plan.. We intend to elect and qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2017 and to maintain that qualification thereafter. To maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains). Accordingly, we may not be able to retain sufficient cash to fund our operations, repay our debts or make investments. Our business strategies therefore depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs. The volatility in the availability of capital to businesses on a global basis in most debt and equity markets generally may limit our ability to raise reasonably priced capital. We may also be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business, market perceptions of our prospects, the terms of our indebtedness or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. Because the earnings we are permitted to retain are limited by the rules governing REIT qualification and taxation, if we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, we may not be able to carry out our business plan.. Risks of cost overruns and failure to complete renovations of properties in transition may result in significant losses.. The renovation, refurbishment or expansion of a property by a borrower involves risks of cost overruns, construction risks, noncompletion risks and other risks. Estimates of the costs of property improvements may be inaccurate. Other risks may include delays in required approvals and leasing when the property is not completed on the borrower's expected schedule. If there are cost overruns or improvements that are not completed in a timely manner, a borrower may experience a loss of cash flow and may not be able to make payments on our loans on a timely basis or at all.. Construction loans involve an increased risk of loss.. We may originate or acquire loans, which fund the construction of commercial properties. Construction lending generally involves a higher degree of risk than other types of real estate lending due to a variety of factors, including the difficulties in estimating construction costs and anticipating construction delays and, generally, the dependency on timely, successful completion and the leasing of the property to tenants after completion. If our borrowers fail to complete the construction of our collateral properties or experience cost overruns, our loans may be materially impaired. For example, an incomplete development property may have less value than the investment we have funded. In such circumstances, we may decide to fund development completion to reduce our losses or, alternatively, we may suffer a significant loss when we realize on the collateral of an unfinished development property.. 36. Table of Contents. Any credit ratings that may be assigned to our investments will be subject to possible revisions, and we cannot assure that those ratings will not be downgraded.. Some of our investments may be rated by credit rating agencies. Any credit ratings on our investments will be subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and we cannot assure that any such ratings will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency after they are issued. If a rating agency assigns a lower than expected rating or reduces or withdraws, or indicates that it may reduce or withdraw, its rating of any of our investments, the value of those investments could significantly decline, which could result in losses if we determine to sell these investments or the failure of the affected borrowers to refinance or otherwise satisfy their debt service obligations to us.. Investments in nonconforming and non-investment grade rated loans or securities will increase our risk of losses.. Some of our investments may not conform to conventional loan standards applied by traditional lenders, and many of our investments either may not be rated or may be rated as non-investment grade by rating agencies. The non-investment grade ratings for these assets typically result from the level of debt compared to the collateral value, the lack of a strong operating history for the properties that constitute the collateral, the borrowers' credit history, the collateral properties' weak cash flow or other factors. As a result, these investments have higher risks of defaults and losses than investment grade rated assets. There are no limits on the percentage of unrated or non-investment grade rated investments we may make.. B-Notes are subordinated and have individually negotiated terms, which may result in losses to us.. We may originate or acquire B-Notes. A B-Note is a mortgage loan typically (a) secured by a first mortgage on a single commercial property or group of related properties and (b) subordinated to an A-Note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. The rights associated with the B-Note are subordinate to the rights associated with the A-Note. If the borrower whose mortgage is divided into an A-Note and a B-Note defaults, there may not be sufficient value in the collateral property remaining for B-Note holders after payment to the A-Note holders. Because each transaction is individually negotiated, B-Notes can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of B-Notes to control the process following a borrower default vary from transaction to transaction. Losses we suffer investing in B-Notes could be material.. Subordinated and mezzanine loans involve greater risks of loss than first mortgage loans.. We may originate or acquire subordinated and mezzanine loans, which are loans secured by junior mortgages on the underlying collateral property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the property. Subordinated loans have less priority and rights than senior or first mortgages. Mezzanine loans secured by a pledge of ownership interests in an entity are by their nature structurally subordinated to financings that are secured directly by the collateral property. Subordinated and mezzanine loans involve a higher degree of risk than first mortgage loans because they rank behind senior loans and may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by senior lenders. In the event of a bankruptcy of an entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If borrowers default on our subordinated loans, mezzanine loans or debt senior to our loans, or in the event of borrowers' bankruptcies, our subordinated loans and mezzanine loans will be satisfied only after the senior debts, and we may not recover some or all of our subordinated loans and mezzanine investments. In addition, subordinated loans and mezzanine loans may have higher LTV ratios than other CRE mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the collateral properties and increasing the risk of loss of principal. Losses we suffer with respect to our subordinated loans and mezzanine loans could be material.. Any distressed loans or investments we make, or investments that later become non-performing, may subject us to losses and other significant risks.. While we expect that our investments will focus primarily on \"performing\" real estate loans, our investments may include distressed loans and investments from time to time (e.g., investments in defaulted, out-of-favor or distressed bank loans or debt securities) or some of our investments that become \"non-performing\" after we make them. From time to time, our investments may be secured by properties that are encumbered by large amounts of debt relative to their values and cash flows and, therefore, involve a high degree of default risk. During an economic downturn or recession, loans or securities of financially or operationally troubled borrowers are more likely to go into default than loans or securities of other borrowers. Investment in the loans secured by highly leveraged properties and loans to operationally troubled borrowers involves a high degree of credit risk.. In certain circumstances (e.g., in connection with a workout, restructuring or foreclosing proceedings involving one or more of our investments), the success of our investment strategy will depend on our ability to effectuate loan modifications or. 37. Table of Contents. restructure and improve the operations of our borrowers. Implementing successful restructuring programs and operating improvements entails a high degree of uncertainty. We cannot assure that we will be able to implement successful restructuring programs and improvements with respect to any distressed loans or investments we may have from time to time. Distressed loans may become subject to bankruptcy or other similar legal proceedings. In such proceedings, there is a possibility that we may incur substantial costs and total losses on our investments and, in certain circumstances, become subject to liabilities that may exceed the value of our original investments. For example, under certain circumstances, a lender that has inappropriately exercised control over the management and policies of a debtor may have its claims legally subordinated or disallowed or may be found liable for damages suffered by the debtor and its related parties as a result of such actions. Bankruptcy and similar laws may delay our ability to realize on collateral for our loans, may adversely affect the economic terms and priority of our loans through legal doctrines such as equitable subordination or may result in a restructuring of our loans through principles such as the \"cramdown\" provisions of the bankruptcy laws. In any reorganization or liquidation proceeding relating to our investments, we may lose our entire investment, may be required to accept cash or securities with a value less than our original investment and/or may be required to accept terms different than our original loan terms, including payment over an extended period of time. In addition, in certain circumstances, payments we have received may be reclaimed if any such payment or distribution is later determined to have been a fraudulent conveyance, preferential payment or similar transaction under applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws.. We may not have control over certain of our loans and investments.. Our ability to manage our investments may be limited by the form in which they are made. In certain situations, we may:. • acquire or retain investments subject to rights of senior classes and servicers under intercreditor or servicing agreements;. • acquire or retain only a minority and/or a non-controlling participation in an underlying investment;. • pledge our investments as collateral for financing arrangements;. • co-invest with others through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, thereby acquiring non-controlling interests; or. • rely on independent third party management or servicing with respect to the management of a particular investment.. We may not be able to exercise control over all aspects of our investments. For example, our right to control the process following a borrower default may be subject to the rights of senior or junior creditors or servicers whose interests may not be aligned with ours. A partner or co-venturer may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, or may take action contrary to our investment objectives. In addition, in certain circumstances we may be liable for the actions of our partners or co-venturers.. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us.. Since the most recent U.S. recession, the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, or the U.S. Federal Reserve, has taken actions that have resulted in low interest rates for a long period of time. Since December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised its benchmark interest rate by one percentage point, and there are some market expectations that market interest rates will rise further in the near to intermediate term. Market interest rates may continue to increase, and those increases may materially and negatively affect us in several ways, including:. • Changes in interest rates may affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest earning investments and the interest expense we incur in financing our investments.. • Changes in interest rates may affect our ability to make investments as well as borrower default rates. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase, while the interest we earn on any fixed rate debt investments would not change, adversely affecting our profitability. Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from our investments, net of credit losses and our financing costs. Even when our investments and borrowings are match funded, the income from our investments may respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings.. 38. Table of Contents. • Investors may consider whether to buy or sell our common shares based upon the then distribution rate on our common shares relative to the then prevailing market interest rates. If market interest rates go up, investors may expect a higher distribution rate than we are able to pay, which may increase our cost of capital, or they may sell our common shares and seek alternative investments that offer higher distribution rates. Sales of our common shares may cause a decline in the value of our common shares.. • Amounts outstanding under our master repurchase facility require interest to be paid at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, our interest costs will increase, which could adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing any fixed rate debts we may have when they become due and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. We may be subject to lender liability claims and, if we are held liable under such claims, we could be subject to material losses.. A number of judicial decisions have created and upheld the rights of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed \"lender liability\". Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders. We cannot assure that such claims will not arise or that we will not be subject to significant liability and losses if claims of this type arise.. If the loans that we originate or acquire do not comply with applicable laws, we may be subject to material penalties.. Loans that we originate or acquire may be subject to U.S. federal, state or local laws. Real estate lenders and borrowers may be responsible for compliance with a wide range of laws intended to protect the public interest, including, without limitation, the Americans with Disabilities Act and local zoning laws. If we or our Manager fail to comply with such laws in relation to a loan that we have originated or acquired, legal penalties may be imposed, which could materially and adversely affect us. Jurisdictions with \"one action,\" \"security first\" and/or \"antideficiency rules\" may limit our ability to foreclose on a collateral property or to realize on obligations secured by a collateral property. In the future, new laws may be enacted or imposed by U.S. federal, state or local governmental entities, and such laws could have a material adverse effect on us and our operations.. Real estate valuation is inherently subjective and uncertain.. The valuation of real estate and, therefore, the valuation of collateral underlying CRE loans made by us, is inherently subjective due to, among other factors, the individual nature of each property, its location, its expected future rental revenues and the valuation methodology adopted. The valuations of our real estate assets may not be precise and may be based on assumptions and methodologies that are inaccurate. Our valuations of our collateral properties may be wrong and we may incur losses.. Insurance may not adequately cover losses.. Losses of a catastrophic nature, such as those caused by hurricanes, flooding, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, among other things, may be uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be covered by insurance policies with limitations such as large deductibles or co-payments that property owners may not be able to pay. Inflation, changes in zoning and building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might result in insurance proceeds being inadequate to restore an affected property to its condition prior to a loss or to compensate for related losses. The insurance proceeds we receive as a result of losses to our collateral properties may not be adequate to restore our economic position after losses affecting our investments. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could result in the loss of cash flow from, and reduce the value of, our investments related to such properties and the ability of the borrowers under such investments to satisfy their obligations to us.. Liability relating to environmental matters may adversely impact the value of our investments.. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, its properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect our borrowers' ability to refinance or sell, and the value of, our collateral. If an owner of property underlying one of our investments becomes liable. 39. Table of Contents. for costs of removal of hazardous substances, the ability of the owner to make payments to us may be reduced. If we foreclose on a property underlying our investments, the presence of hazardous substances on the property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs, causing us to experience losses.. Investments in CMBS and other structured finance investments pose additional risks, including the sensitivity of such investments to economic downturns, the illiquidity of such investments, the risk that the servicer or manager may take actions that could adversely affect our interests and the possibility that the CMBS market will be significantly affected by current or future regulation.. We generally do not expect to make investments in senior CMBS classes, but we may invest in CMBS and similar structured finance investments which are subordinated classes of securities in a structure of securities secured by a pool of mortgages or loans. Such subordinated securities are the first, or among the first, to bear the loss upon a restructuring or liquidation of the underlying collateral and the last to receive payment of interest and principal. There is generally only a nominal amount of equity or other debt securities junior to such positions, if any, issued in such structures. The values of such subordinated interests tend to be much more sensitive to adverse economic downturns and underlying borrower developments than more senior securities. A projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower status CMBS or other similar securities because the ability of borrowers to make principal and interest payments on the mortgages or loans underlying such securities may be expected to become impaired.. Subordinate CMBS classes are generally not actively traded and are relatively illiquid investments, and volatility in the trading markets for those investments may cause their value to decline materially and fast. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral value is available to satisfy interest and principal payments and any other fees in connection with the trust or other conduit arrangement for such securities, we may incur significant losses. Also, with respect to the CMBS and similar structured finance investments in which we may invest, control over the related underlying loans will be exercised through a special servicer or collateral manager designated by a \"directing certificateholder\" or a \"controlling class representative,\" or otherwise pursuant to the related securitization documents. We may not have the right to appoint the directing certificateholder or otherwise direct the special servicing or collateral management of classes of existing series of CMBS or similar structured finance investments that we acquire. With respect to the management and servicing of these loans, the related special servicers or collateral managers may take actions that could adversely affect our interests.. The CMBS market may be significantly affected by current or future regulation. The risk retention rules under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which generally require a sponsor of a CMBS transaction to retain, directly or indirectly, at least 5% of the credit risk of the securitized assets collateralizing the CMBS, went into effect in December 2016. There remains general uncertainty as to how these requirements will be implemented and what their implementation will mean in practice. The impact of these requirements on the CMBS securitization market generally are uncertain and may result in many CMBS market participants ceasing origination of and investment in CMBS, a lack of liquidity in the CMBS market and increased costs in CMBS transactions. There may be little or no CMBS investment opportunities available to us and any opportunities that are available may be less attractive than CMBS opportunities previously available in the market.. Current government policies regarding interest rates and trade policies may cause a recession.. The U.S. Federal Reserve policy regarding the timing and amount of future increases in interest rates and changing U.S. and other countries' trade policies may hinder the growth of the U.S. economy. It is unclear whether the U.S. economy will be able to withstand these challenges and continue sustained growth. Economic weakness in the U.S. economy generally or a new U.S. recession would likely adversely affect our financial condition and that of our borrowers, could adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to make payments to us, and may cause the value of our assets or securities to decline.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY. We have a limited operating history, and we may not be able to operate our business successfully or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. We were organized in June 2017 and have a limited operating history. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to make investments that generate attractive, risk adjusted returns, as well as on our access to financing on acceptable terms. In general, the availability of favorable investment opportunities will be affected by the level and volatility of interest rates in the market generally, the availability of adequate short and long term real estate financing and the competition for investment opportunities. We cannot assure that we will be successful in making investments that satisfy our. 40. Table of Contents. rate of return or other investment objectives or that we will be able to operate our business successfully, implement our operating policies and investment strategies or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. State licensing requirements may cause us to incur expenses and our failure to be properly licensed may have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We or our Manager may be required to hold licenses in a number of U.S. states to conduct lending activities. State licensing statutes vary from state to state and may prescribe or impose, among other things:. • various recordkeeping requirements;. • restrictions on loan origination and servicing practices, including limits on finance charges and the type, amount and manner of charging fees;. • disclosure requirements;. • requirements that licensees submit to periodic examination;. • surety bond and minimum specified net worth requirements;. • periodic financial reporting requirements;. • notification requirements for changes in principal officers, stock ownership or corporate control;. • restrictions on advertising; and. • requirements that loan forms be submitted for review.. There is no guarantee that we or our Manager will be able to obtain these licenses, and efforts to obtain and maintain such licenses may cause us to incur significant expenses. Any failure to be properly licensed under state law or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on us and our operations.. Changes in laws or regulations could increase competition for CRE debt financing or require changes to our business practices and adversely affect us.. Various laws and regulations currently exist that restrict the investment activities of banks and certain other financial institutions but do not apply to us. We believe this regulatory difference may create opportunities for us to successfully grow our business. However, there are indications that the U.S. presidential administration will seek to decrease regulation of the financial industry, including by amending the Dodd-Frank Act, which may decrease the restrictions on banks and other financial institutions and allow them to compete more effectively with us for investment opportunities.. The laws and regulations governing our operations, as well as their interpretation, may change from time to time, and new laws and regulations may be enacted. Such changes or new laws or regulations could require changes to certain of our business practices, negatively impact our operations, impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely affect our business. There has been increasing commentary amongst regulators and intergovernmental institutions on the role of nonbank institutions in providing credit and, particularly, so-called \"shadow banking,\" a term generally taken to refer to credit intermediation involving entities and activities outside the regulated banking system. For example, in August 2013, the Financial Stability Board issued a policy framework for strengthening oversight and regulation of shadow banking entities. That report outlined initial steps to define the scope of the shadow banking system and proposed governing principles for a regulatory framework. A number of other regulators and international organizations are studying the shadow banking system. At this time, it is too early to assess whether any new rules or regulations will be adopted or what impact such rules or regulations will have on us, if any. In an extreme eventuality, it is possible that such regulations could cause us to cease operations.. Any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of the information technology networks and systems on which we rely could materially and adversely affect us.. Our Manager and RMR LLC rely on information technology and systems, including the Internet and commercially available software, to process, transmit, store and safeguard information and to manage or support a variety of their business processes, including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information of. 41. Table of Contents. employees and investment data. If RMR LLC or our Manager experiences material security or other failures, inadequacies or interruptions of their information technology, they could incur material costs and losses, and our operations could be disrupted as a result. Further, third party vendors could experience similar events with respect to their information technology and systems that impact the products and services they provide to RMR LLC, our Manager or us. RMR LLC and our Manager rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as their internal procedures and personnel, to provide security for processing, transmitting, storing and safeguarding confidential borrower and vendor information, such as personally identifiable information related to their employees and others and information regarding their and our financial accounts. RMR LLC and our Manager take various actions, and incur significant costs, to maintain and protect the operation and security of their information technology and systems, including the data maintained in those systems. However, it is possible that these measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or a compromise in security, such as in the event of a cyberattack or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information.. Security breaches, computer viruses, attacks by hackers, online fraud schemes and similar breaches can create significant system disruptions, shutdowns, fraudulent transfer of assets or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. The cybersecurity risks to RMR LLC, our Manager, us and third party vendors are heightened by, among other things, the evolving nature of the threats faced, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography and new and increasingly sophisticated methods used to perpetuate illegal or fraudulent activities against RMR LLC or our Manager, including cyberattacks, email or wire fraud and other attacks exploiting security vulnerabilities in RMR LLC's, our Manager's or other third parties' information technology networks and systems or operations. Any failure to maintain the security, proper function and availability of RMR LLC's or our Manager's information technology and systems, or certain third party vendors' failure to similarly protect their information technology and systems that are relevant to RMR LLC's, our Manager's or our operations, or to safeguard RMR LLC's, our Manager's or our business processes, assets and information could result in financial losses, interrupt RMR LLC's or our Manager's operations, damage RMR LLC's or our Manager's reputations, cause RMR LLC or our Manager to be in default of material contracts and subject RMR LLC or our Manager to liability claims or regulatory penalties. Any or all of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of our securities.. Our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal controls or if there are deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting.. As a public company, we are required to provide reliable financial statements and reports to our shareholders and others. If we fail to implement and comply with proper internal controls, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations or fail to detect fraud. In addition, the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. There can be no guarantee that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weaknesses, in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements of our results of operations or our financial statements or could otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common shares less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. We may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. In addition, as permitted for an \"emerging growth company,\" we have elected to delay the adoption of new or revised financial accounting standards, and, as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for publicly owned companies that are not emerging growth companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements.. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if we have more than $1.07 billion in annual revenues as of the end of our fiscal year, we have more than $700.0 million in market value of our common shares held by non-affiliates as of the end of our second fiscal quarter or we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three year period. We cannot predict if investors will find our common shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common shares and our per share trading price may be adversely affected and more volatile.. 42. Table of Contents. RISKS RELATED TO FINANCING. We may incur significant debt, and our governing documents contain no limit on the amount of debt we may incur.. Subject to market conditions and availability, we may incur significant debt through our $100.0 million master repurchase facility or through other repurchase or bank facilities (including term loans and revolving facilities), warehouse facilities and structured financing arrangements, public and private debt issuances or otherwise. The amount of leverage we use will vary depending on our available investment opportunities, our available capital, our ability to obtain and access financing arrangements with lenders and the lenders' and our estimate of the stability of our investment portfolio's cash flow. Our governing documents contain no limit on the amount of debt we may incur, and we may significantly increase the amount of leverage we utilize at any time without approval of our shareholders. The amount of leverage on individual assets may vary, with leverage on some assets substantially higher than others. Leverage can enhance our potential returns but can also exacerbate our losses.. Incurring substantial debt could subject us to many risks that, if realized, would materially and adversely affect us, including the risk that:. • our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal of and interest on the debt or we may fail to comply with covenants contained in our debt instruments, including the agreement governing our master repurchase facility, or our master repurchase agreement, which would likely result in (a) acceleration of such debt (and any other debt arrangements containing a cross default or cross acceleration provision, such as our master repurchase agreement) that we may be unable to repay from internal funds or to refinance on favorable terms, or at all, (b) our inability to borrow unused or undrawn amounts under our master repurchase facility or other financing arrangements, even if we are current in payments on borrowings under those arrangements and/or (c) the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosures or forced sales;. • our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, market and industry conditions with no assurance that our investment yields will increase to match our higher financing costs;. • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities, distributions to our shareholders or other purposes; and. • we may not be able to refinance maturing debts.. We cannot assure that our leverage strategies will be successful.. We may be unable to access capital.. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including:. • general economic, market or industry conditions;. • the market's view of the quality of our assets;. • the market's perception of our growth potential;. • our current and potential future earnings and distributions to our shareholders; and. • the value of our securities.. If regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders change, they may be required to limit, or increase the cost of, financing they provide to us. This could potentially increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity or require us to sell assets at an inopportune time or price.. We may have to rely on additional equity issuances, which may be dilutive to our shareholders, or on costly debt financings that require a large portion of our cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for our operations, future business opportunities, distributions to our shareholders or other purposes. We cannot assure that we will have access to. 43. Table of Contents. such equity or debt capital on favorable terms at the desired times, or at all, which may cause us to curtail our investment activities or dispose of assets at an inopportune time or price, which could negatively affect our results of operations.. If the market value of our common shares declines, our cost of equity capital will increase, and we may not be able to raise equity capital by issuing additional equity securities.. The duration of our debt leverage and our investments may not match.. We generally intend to structure our debt leverage so that we minimize the difference between the term of our investments and the term of the leverage we use to finance some of our investments. However, we may not be able to do so. In the event that our leverage is for a shorter term than our investments, we may not be able to extend or find appropriate replacement leverage, which could require us to sell certain investments before we might otherwise prefer to do so. In the event that our leverage is for a longer term than our investments, we may not be able to replace our investments as they mature with new investments or at all, which will negatively impact our earnings.. We intend to structure our leverage so that we minimize the difference between the index of our investments and the index of our debt leverage, by financing variable rate investments with variable rate leverage and fixed rate investments with fixed rate leverage. If such a variable rate or fixed rate product is not available to us on reasonable terms, we may use hedging instruments to create such a match. Our attempts to mitigate the risk of a mismatch with the duration or index of our investments and leverage will be subject to factors outside of our control, such as the availability to us of favorable financing and hedging options, and may not be successful.. The risks of duration mismatches are magnified by the potential for the extension of loans in order to maximize the likelihood and magnitude of their recovery value in the event the loans experience credit or performance challenges; use of these asset management practices would effectively extend the duration of our investments, while our liabilities may have set maturity dates.. A failure to comply with restrictive covenants in our master repurchase agreement or other financing arrangements would have a material adverse effect on us, and any future financings may require us to provide additional collateral or pay down debt.. We are subject to various restrictive covenants contained in our master repurchase agreement and may be subject to additional covenants in connection with future financing arrangements. Our master repurchase agreement requires us to maintain compliance with various financial covenants, including a minimum tangible net worth and cash liquidity, and specified financial ratios, such as total debt to tangible net worth and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Financing arrangements that we may enter into in the future may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. These covenants may limit our flexibility to pursue certain investments or incur additional debt. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants, we may be in default under the agreements governing the applicable arrangements, and our lenders could elect to accelerate our obligation to repurchase certain assets, declare outstanding amounts due and payable, terminate their commitments, require the posting of additional collateral or enforce their rights against existing collateral. We may also be subject to cross default and acceleration rights and, with respect to collateralized debt, the posting of additional collateral or foreclosure upon default. These covenants and restrictions could also make it difficult for us to satisfy the qualification requirements necessary to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC.. Our master repurchase agreement requires, and the agreements governing any additional repurchase facilities or other financing arrangements we may enter will likely require, us to provide additional collateral or pay down debt.. Repurchase facilities such as our master repurchase facility or other financing arrangements we may enter and use to finance our assets, may involve the risk that the market value of our assets pledged or sold by us to the provider of or counterparty to such arrangement may decline in value, in which case the lender may require us to provide additional collateral or to repay all or a portion of the funds advanced. We may not have the funds available to repay our debt at that time, which would likely result in defaults unless we are able to raise the funds from alternative sources, which we may not be able to achieve on favorable terms or at all. Posting additional collateral would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. If we cannot meet these requirements, the lender could accelerate our indebtedness, increase the interest rate on advanced funds and terminate our ability to borrow funds from them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to implement our business plan. In addition, in the event that the lender files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, our loans may become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, thus depriving us, at least temporarily, of the benefit of these assets. Such an event could restrict our access to credit facilities or other financing arrangements and increase. 44. Table of Contents. our cost of capital. The providers of repurchase facilities or other financing arrangements may also require us to maintain a certain amount of cash or set aside assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position that would allow us to satisfy its collateral obligations. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition and prospects could deteriorate.. Any default in a repurchase agreement will likely cause us to experience a loss.. If the counterparty to a repurchase transaction under our master repurchase facility or any other repurchase financing arrangement we may enter defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying assets back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying assets has declined as of the end of that term, or if we default on our obligations under our master repurchase agreement or the agreement governing any other such arrangement, we will likely incur a loss on such repurchase transactions.. Any warehouse facilities that we enter may limit our ability to originate or acquire assets, and we may incur losses if the collateral is liquidated.. If securitization financings become available to us, we may utilize warehouse facilities pursuant to which we would accumulate CRE mortgage loans in anticipation of a securitization financing, which assets would be pledged as collateral for such facilities until the securitization transaction is consummated. In order to borrow funds to originate or acquire assets under any future warehouse facilities, we expect that our lenders would have the right to review the potential assets for which we are seeking financing. We may be unable to obtain the consent of a lender to originate or acquire assets that we believe would be beneficial to us, and we may be unable to obtain alternate financing for such assets. In addition, we cannot assure that a securitization transaction would be consummated with respect to the assets being warehoused. If the securitization is not consummated, we expect that the lender would demand repayment of the facility, and in the event that we are unable to timely repay such facility, the lender would liquidate the warehoused collateral and we would then be required to pay to the lender any amount by which our borrowings to purchase the collateral assets exceeds their sale price, subject in some instances to negotiated caps on our exposure. In addition, regardless of whether the securitization is consummated, if any of the warehoused collateral is sold before the completion, we generally would have to bear any resulting loss to our lender from such sale. We cannot assure that we would be able to obtain one or more warehouse facilities on favorable terms, or at all.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR MANAGER AND ITS AFFILIATES. Neither our Manager nor RMR LLC has experience managing a mortgage REIT.. Neither our Manager nor RMR LLC has experience managing a REIT with our investment objectives. The historical returns of the Managed REITs and RIF are not indicative of our future results or of any returns expected on an investment in our common shares. Each of the Managed REITs is an equity REIT, and RIF is a closed end investment company, with significantly different investment objectives than ours. Our investment returns may be substantially lower than the returns achieved by the Managed REITs and RIF.. We are dependent on our Manager, its affiliates and their personnel. We may be unable to find suitable replacements if our Management Agreement is terminated.. We do not have an office separate from our Manager and do not have any employees. Our executive officers also serve as officers of our Manager and its affiliates, including RMR LLC. Our Manager itself has limited resources and is dependent upon facilities and services available to our Manager under its shared services agreement with RMR LLC. Our Manager is not obligated to dedicate any specific personnel exclusively to us. Our officers are not obligated to dedicate any specific portion of their time to our business. Several of our officers have significant responsibilities for RMR LLC managed companies. As a result, these individuals may not always be able to devote sufficient time to the management of our business, and we may not receive the level of support and assistance that we would receive if we were internally managed or if we had different management arrangements. In addition, the initial term of our Management Agreement extends only until December 31, 2020. If our Management Agreement or our Manager's shared services agreement with RMR LLC is terminated and no suitable replacements are found, we may not be able to continue in business.. Our management structure and agreements and relationships with our Manager and RMR LLC and RMR LLC's and its controlling shareholders' relationships with others may create conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts, and may restrict our investment activities.. 45. Table of Contents. Our Manager is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines. These guidelines, as well as our investment and financing strategies, leverage and hedging policies with respect to investments, originations, acquisitions, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, may be changed at any time without our shareholders' approval. Changes in our investment strategies may increase our exposure to interest rate risks, default risks and real estate market fluctuations. Such changes could result in the types of investments we make being different from those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the value of our common shares and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with our Manager, RMR LLC, their affiliates and entities to which they provide management services. Each of our Managing Trustees is an officer, employee and controlling shareholder of RMR LLC and a managing director or managing trustee of other public companies to which RMR LLC provides management services. Each of our executive officers is also an officer and employee of our Manager and/or RMR LLC, and some of our executive officers are also officers of other entities to which RMR LLC provides management services. As a result, our Managing Trustees and officers may have conflicts between their responsibilities to us and their responsibilities to, and interests in, our Manager, RMR LLC, their affiliates and other entities to which they provide management services. These conflicts include, among other things, competition for the time and attention of our Manager, RMR LLC, their affiliates and their personnel.. While we are currently the only publicly owned REIT managed by our Manager, RMR LLC or their subsidiaries that invests primarily in first mortgage loans secured by middle market and transitional CRE located in the United States, our Manager, RMR LLC, their affiliates and the entities to which they provide management services are generally not prohibited from competing with us. Our Manager currently originates and manages certain real estate mortgage investments for a group of related credit funds and manages certain real estate and mortgage investments for a union sponsored pension plan which combined, as of December 31, 2017, represented approximately $184 million in assets under management. Our Manager also has had discussions with other institutional investors about originating and managing real estate mortgage investments for them, and our Manager may undertake such activities in the future. Also, our Manager and certain of its affiliates also regularly provide mortgage brokerage services, originating and arranging CRE loans between borrowers and other lenders. In addition, our Manager, RMR LLC and their subsidiaries may sponsor or manage other funds, REITs or other entities, including entities that make investments like the investments we intend to make. As a result, conflicts of interests exist with respect to the allocation of investment opportunities. In our Management Agreement, we specifically acknowledge these conflicts of interest and agree that our Manager, RMR LLC and their subsidiaries may resolve such conflicts in good faith and in their fair and reasonable discretion and may allocate investments, including those within our investment objectives, to RMR LLC and its other clients. Accordingly, we may lose investment opportunities to, and may compete for investment opportunities with, other businesses managed by our Manager, RMR LLC or their subsidiaries.. In addition, we may in the future enter into additional transactions with our Manager, RMR LLC, their affiliates, or entities managed by them. In particular, we may provide financing to entities managed by our Manager, RMR LLC and their subsidiaries or co-invest with, purchase assets from, sell assets to or arrange financing from any such entities. In addition to their investments in RMR LLC, our Managing Trustees hold equity investments in other entities managed by RMR LLC or its subsidiaries, and some of these entities have significant cross ownership interests, including, for example, as of February 21, 2018: our Managing Trustees own, directly or indirectly, in aggregate 36.4% of FVE's outstanding common stock, 1.5% of HPT's outstanding common shares, 1.8% of GOV's outstanding common shares, 1.9% of SIR's outstanding common shares and 1.3% of SNH's outstanding common shares; SNH owns 8.4% of FVE's outstanding common stock; GOV owns 27.8% of SIR's outstanding common shares; SIR owns 69.2% of ILPT's outstanding common shares; and HPT owns 8.6% of TA's outstanding common shares. Our executive officers and RMR LLC's executive officers may also own equity investments in other entities to which our Manager, RMR LLC and their subsidiaries provide management services. Such equity ownership or positions could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, our Manager, RMR LLC, their affiliates or entities managed by them.. In addition to the fees payable to our Manager under our Management Agreement, our Manager and its affiliates may benefit from other fees paid to it in respect of our investments. For example, if we seek to securitize some of our CRE loans, our Manager or its affiliates may act as the collateral manager for such securitizations. In any of these or other capacities, our Manager and its affiliates may receive fees for their services if approved by a majority of our Independent Trustees.. We cannot be sure that our Code of Conduct, governance guidelines or other procedural protections we adopt will be sufficient to enable us to identify, adequately address or mitigate actual or alleged conflicts of interest or ensure that our transactions with related persons are made on terms that are at least as favorable to us as those that would have been obtained in an arm's length transaction with an unrelated person. Conflicts of interest or the perception of conflicts of interest could. 46. Table of Contents. have a material adverse impact on our reputation and business and the market price of our common shares and other securities.. In addition, our Manager may sell the common shares it owns at any time following the expiration of its applicable lock-up period on March 13, 2018 or prior thereto with the approval of UBS Securities LLC (UBS Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, LLC acted as book-running managers for our IPO and as representatives of the underwriters in the IPO). To the extent our Manager sells some of these common shares, its interests may be less aligned with our interests.. Conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs.. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market for publicly traded securities or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident trustee nominations and dissident proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated persons and entities. Our relationship with our Manager and its affiliates, with the other businesses and entities to which RMR LLC provides management services and with our Managing Trustees may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention, even if such actions are without merit.. Our Manager has broad discretion in operating our day to day business.. Our Manager is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has broad discretion in implementing our business plan and day to day activities. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our operating activities, investments and financing arrangements, but it does not review or approve each decision made by our Manager on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by our Manager. Our Manager may exercise its discretion in a manner that results in investment returns that are substantially below expectations or that result in losses.. Our Management Agreement's fee structure may not create proper incentives for our Manager, which may increase the risk of an investment in our common shares.. We will pay our Manager substantial base management fees regardless of the performance of our portfolio. Our Manager's entitlement to a base management fee, which is not based upon our performance or results, might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive, risk adjusted returns for us. Because the base management fees are also based in part on our outstanding equity, our Manager may be incentivized to advance strategies that increase our equity. Our increasing our equity capital by selling common shares will usually be dilutive to existing shareholders and may not improve returns for our shareholders or the market price of our common shares. In addition, our Manager has the ability to earn incentive fees each quarter based on our Core Earnings, which generally stated, are our earnings in a specified period in excess of a specified return. This may create an incentive for our Manager to invest in assets with higher yield potential, which are generally riskier or more speculative, or to sell an asset prematurely for a gain in an effort to increase our near term net income and thereby increase the incentive fees to which our Manager is entitled. This incentive fee formula may encourage our Manager to recommend investments or take other actions which cause us losses.. Our Management Agreement is between related parties and may be less favorable to us than if it had been negotiated on an arm's length basis with an unrelated party.. Our Management Agreement was entered between related parties and its terms, including fees payable to our Manager, may be less favorable to us than if they had been negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties. Pursuant to the terms of our Management Agreement, we have agreed to reimburse our Manager for the fees and other costs it pays to RMR LLC. Because of the relationships among us, our Manager and RMR LLC, the terms of our Management Agreement were not negotiated on an arm's length basis, and we can provide no assurance that these terms are as favorable to us as they would have been if our Management Agreement had been negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties.. Terminating our Management Agreement may be difficult and will require our payment of a substantial termination fee.. Termination of our Management Agreement without a cause event will be difficult and costly. We may not terminate our Management Agreement during its initial term through December 31, 2020, except upon a cause event. Our Independent Trustees will review our Manager's performance and the management fees annually and, following the initial term ending. 47. Table of Contents. December 31, 2020, our Management Agreement may be terminated annually without a cause event upon the affirmative vote of at 2/3 of our Independent Trustees based upon a determination that (a) our Manager's performance is unsatisfactory and materially detrimental to us or (b) the base management fee and incentive fee, taken as a whole, payable to our Manager are not fair to us (provided that in the instance of (b), our Manager will be afforded the opportunity to renegotiate the base management fee and incentive fee prior to termination). We will be required to provide our Manager with 180 days' prior written notice of any such termination. Additionally, in the event our Management Agreement is terminated by us without a cause event or by our Manager for a material breach, we will be required to pay our Manager a termination fee equal to (a) three times the sum of (i) the average annual base management fee and (ii) the average annual incentive fee, in each case paid or payable to our Manager during the 24 month period immediately preceding the most recently completed calendar quarter prior to the date of termination or, if such termination occurs within 24 months of its initial commencement, the base management fee and the incentive fee will be annualized for such 24 month period based on such fees earned by our Manager during such period, plus (b) an amount equal to the initial organizational costs related to our formation and the costs of our IPO. These provisions will increase the cost to us of terminating our Management Agreement and adversely affect our ability to terminate our Manager or not renew our Management Agreement without a cause event. These terms of our Management Agreement may discourage a change in our control, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for our common shares.. Our Manager owns a significant number of our outstanding common shares and as a result you may have less influence over us than shareholders of most other publicly owned companies.. Our Manager owns approximately 19.2% of our common shares outstanding. If our Manager maintains a significant ownership stake in us, our Manager may have significant influence over the composition of our Board of Trustees and other matters involving a shareholder vote. A significant ownership stake in us by our Manager may discourage transactions involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which you as a holder of our common shares might otherwise receive a premium for your common shares over the then current market price. In addition, if our Manager retains an ownership stake in us above 9.8%, then our Board of Trustees in the future may determine that it is appropriate to reduce the ownership limit applicable to ownership of our common shares by others to below 9.8% in order to assist us in qualifying for taxation as a REIT. Under such circumstances if the ownership limit is not reduced to an appropriate level on a timely basis, it is possible that certain purchasers, acquirors, or other holders of our common shares may, if their ownership would result in our failing to qualify for taxation as a REIT, have certain of their common shares transferred to a charitable trust even if their ownership in our common shares was in an amount below the ownership limit applicable at the time.. Our Manager's sale of some or all of its ownership stake in us, acquisition of additional common shares and speculation about any such possible transactions may adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. Our Manager is not prohibited from selling some or all of its common shares, except that it has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to sell or transfer any common shares until March 13, 2018 without first obtaining the written consent of UBS Securities LLC, and our Manager may do so without your approval. In addition, from and after the earlier of January 1, 2021 and the termination of our Management Agreement, our Manager will have the contractual right to demand that we file a registration statement with the SEC for the resale of our common shares owned by our Manager, or include such common shares in a registration statement we are filing for another purpose. Our Manager has advised us that it does not have any current plans to sell or otherwise dispose of its common shares. Speculation by the press, stock analysts, our shareholders or others regarding our Manager's intention with respect to its investment in us could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. If our Manager has a significant ownership in us, the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted.. Our Manager does not guaranty our performance; moreover, we could experience poor performance or losses for which our Manager would not be liable. Our Manager's liability is limited under our Management Agreement, and we will agree to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities.. Our Manager maintains a contractual as opposed to a fiduciary relationship with us. Our Manager does not guaranty our performance. Pursuant to our Management Agreement, our Manager does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder in good faith and is not responsible for any action of our Board of Trustees in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. We could experience poor performance or losses for which our Manager would not be liable. Under the terms of our Management Agreement, our Manager and its affiliates, including RMR LLC, and their respective directors, trustees, officers, shareholders, owners, members, managers, employees and personnel will not be liable to us or any of our Trustees, shareholders or subsidiaries for any acts or omissions related to the provision of services to us under our Management Agreement, except by reason of acts or omissions that are proved to constitute bad faith, fraud, intentional misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of the duties of our Manager under our Management. 48. Table of Contents. Agreement. In addition, under the terms of our Management Agreement, we agree to indemnify, hold harmless and advance expenses to our Manager and its affiliates, including RMR LLC, and their respective directors, trustees, officers, shareholders, owners, members, managers, employees and personnel from and against all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims of any nature whatsoever, including all reasonable attorneys', accountants, and experts' fees and expenses, arising from acts or omissions related to the provision of services to us or the performance of any matter pursuant to an instruction by our Board of Trustees, except to the extent it is proved that such acts or omissions constituted bad faith, fraud, intentional misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of the duties of our Manager under our Management Agreement. Such persons will also not be liable for trade errors that may result from ordinary negligence, including errors in the investment decision making or trade process.. Our Manager may change its processes for identifying, evaluating and managing investments and the personnel performing those functions for us without our or our shareholders' consent at any time.. Our Manager may change its personnel and processes for identifying, evaluating and managing investments for us without our or our shareholders' consent at any time. In addition, there can be no assurance that our Manager will follow its processes. Changes in our Manager's personnel and processes may result in fewer investment opportunities for us, inferior diligence and underwriting standards or adversely affect the collection of payments on, and the preservation of our rights with respect to, our investments, any of which may adversely affect our operating results.. Our declaration of trust and Management Agreement permit our Trustees and officers, our Manager, its affiliates and their respective directors, trustees, officers, employees and agents to retain business opportunities for their own benefit and to compete with us.. In recognition of the fact that our Trustees and officers and our Manager, its affiliates and their respective directors, trustees, officers, employees and agents may engage in other activities or lines of business similar to those in which we engage, our declaration of trust and Management Agreement provide that if such a person acquires knowledge of a potential business opportunity, we renounce any potential interest or expectation in, or right to be offered or to participate in, such business opportunity to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Accordingly, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law (a) no such person is required to present, communicate or offer any business opportunity to us and (b) such persons, on their own behalf and on behalf of our Manager, any affiliate of such person or our Manager and any other person to which such person, RMR LLC or any of their subsidiaries provide management services, will have the right to hold and exploit any business opportunity, or to direct, recommend, offer, sell, assign or otherwise transfer such business opportunity to any person other than us. Consequently, our declaration of trust and Management Agreement permit our Trustees and officers and our Manager and its affiliates, including RMR LLC, to engage in activities that compete with us.. Disputes with our Manager may be referred to binding arbitration.. Our Management Agreement provides that any dispute arising thereunder may be referred to binding arbitration. As a result, we and our shareholders may not be able to pursue litigation in courts against our Manager for such disputes. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to bring such litigation.. Our Manager is subject to extensive regulation as an investment adviser, which could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.. Our Manager is subject to regulation as an investment adviser by various regulatory authorities that are charged with protecting the interests of its clients, including us. Our Manager could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability, or sanction, including revocation of its registration as an investment adviser, censures, fines, or temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business, if it is found to have violated any of the laws or regulations governing investment advisers. Any such liability or sanction could adversely affect our Manager's ability to manage our business. Our Manager must continually address conflicts between its interests and those of its clients, including us. In addition, the SEC and other regulators have increased their scrutiny of conflicts of interest. Our Manager has procedures and controls that are reasonably designed to address these issues. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and if our Manager fails, or appears to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest, it could face litigation or regulatory proceedings or penalties, any of which could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.. 49. Table of Contents. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and we may be unable to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders at any time in the future.. We are generally required to distribute annually to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which may be different than our income calculated according to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, for us to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected if any of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K occur. Further, our making of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our master repurchase agreement and may be subject to restrictions in future debt obligations we may incur.. The timing and amount of any distributions will be determined at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend on various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our financial condition, our results of operations, our liquidity, our capital requirements, our core earnings, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements, general economic conditions in the United States, requirements of the IRC to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC and restrictions under the laws of Maryland.. We believe that a change in any one of the following factors could adversely affect our results of operations and impair our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders:. • the profitability of the investments we make;. • our ability to obtain debt leverage at a cost less than the returns we realize on our investments made with the proceeds of such debt leverage;. • our ability to make profitable additional investments in the future;. • defaults by our borrowers and decreases in the value of and income from our collateral properties; and. •  the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates.. We cannot assure that we will be able to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders at any time in the future, that the level of any distributions we do make to our shareholders will achieve a market yield relative to the value of our common shares, or that we will be able to increase or even maintain our distribution level over time.. We may use future debt leverage we may incur to pay distributions to our shareholders.. If our earnings are at any time insufficient to fund distributions to our shareholders at the level which may in the future be established by our Board of Trustees, we may pay distributions to our shareholders with the proceeds of borrowings or other leverage that we may establish or from sales of our assets. The use of borrowings or sale proceeds for distributions could be dilutive to our shareholders' ownership interests in us. In addition, funding distributions to our shareholders from our future borrowings or asset sales may constitute a return of capital to our investors, which would have the effect of reducing our shareholders' bases in their common shares.. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the value of our securities.. As with other publicly traded equity securities and REIT securities, the value of our common shares and other securities depends on various market conditions that are subject to change from time to time, including:. • the extent of investor interest in our securities;. • the general reputation of REITs and externally managed companies and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate based companies or by other issuers less sensitive to rises in interest rates;. • our underlying asset value;. 50. Table of Contents. • investor confidence in the stock and bond markets, generally;. • market interest rates;. • national economic conditions;. • changes in tax laws;. • changes in our credit ratings; and. • general market conditions.. We believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell equity securities of a REIT is the distribution rate, considered as a percentage of the price of the equity securities, relative to market interest rates. Interest rates have been at historically low levels for an extended period of time. There is a general market perception that REIT shares outperform in low interest rate environments and underperform in rising interest rate environments when compared to the broader market. Since December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised its benchmark interest rate by one percentage point, and there are some market expectations that market interest rates will rise further in the near to intermediate term. If market interest rates continue to increase, or if there continues to be market expectation of such increases, prospective purchasers of REIT equity securities may want to achieve a higher distribution rate. Thus, higher market interest rates, or the expectation of higher interest rates, could cause the value of our securities to decline.. Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk.. The investments that we make in accordance with our investment objectives may result in a high amount of risk when compared to alternative investment options. Our investments may be highly speculative and aggressive, and therefore an investment in our common shares may not be suitable for someone with low risk tolerance.. Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current shareholders.. The interests of our existing shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities to finance future loan originations or acquisitions or to repay indebtedness. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, which may include secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, which may include common and preferred shares.. Our future offerings of debt or equity securities that rank senior to our common shares may adversely affect our shareholders.. If we decide in the future to issue debt or equity securities that rank senior to our common shares, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Also, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common shares and may result in dilution to our shareholders. We and, indirectly, our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or even estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future capital offerings. Thus our shareholders will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting the value of their common shares.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE. Ownership limitations and takeover defense provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may inhibit a change in our control and prevent our shareholders from receiving a takeover premium.. Our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder other than our Manager, RMR LLC and their subsidiaries from owning (directly and by attribution) more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of our shares of beneficial interest, including our common shares. Our Board of Trustees may from time to time reduce this ownership limit below 9.8%, subject to limitations contained in our declaration of trust. These provisions of our declaration of trust are intended to, among other purposes, assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise to promote our orderly governance. However, this provision also inhibits acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may prevent a change in our. 51. Table of Contents. control. Additionally, many provisions contained in our governing documents may further deter persons from attempting to acquire control of us and implement changes that may be beneficial to our shareholders, including, for example, provisions relating to:. • the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change in our control;. • shareholder voting rights and standards for the election of Trustees and approval of other business;. • required qualifications for individuals to serve as Trustees including requirements that certain of our Trustees be \"Managing Trustees\" and other Trustees be \"Independent Trustees\";. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as Trustees and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of our shareholders, which provisions require, among other things, that one or more shareholders desiring to propose nominees for election as Trustees or other business must have continuously owned in aggregate for at least three years (or, if prior to the three-year anniversary of the third business day following the closing of our IPO, since the third business day following the closing of our IPO) at least 1% of our shares of beneficial interest;. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees, which provide that a Trustee may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 2/3 of the outstanding shares of each class or series of our shares entitled to be cast in the election of such Trustee at a properly called shareholders meeting;. • the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, applicable to Maryland REITs, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from acquiring us or of impeding a change of control of us under circumstances that otherwise could provide our shareholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares or otherwise be in the best interest of shareholders, including:. • \"Business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the MGCL, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between us and an \"interested shareholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested shareholder generally must be recommended by our Board of Trustees and, if shareholders do not receive the minimum price for their shares prescribed by the MGCL in the business combination, such business combination must be approved by a specified supermajority vote of our shareholders. Our Board of Trustees has adopted a resolution that any business combination between us and any other person is exempted from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, provided that the business combination is first approved by the Board of Trustees, including the approval of a majority of the members of the Board of Trustees who are not affiliates or associates of the interested shareholder.. • \"Control share\" provisions that provide that, subject to certain exceptions, holders of \"control shares\" of ours (defined as voting shares that, if aggregated with all other shares owned or controlled by the acquirer, would entitle the acquirer to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of issued and outstanding \"control shares\") have no voting rights with respect to the control shares except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least 2/3 of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. Our bylaws contain a provision opting out of the Maryland control share acquisition act.. • Additionally, Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits our Board of Trustees, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our declaration of trust or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses.. 52. Table of Contents. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our shareholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price.. Our Board of Trustees has the power to cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional common shares, preferred shares or any other class or series of our shares of beneficial interest without shareholder approval.. Our declaration of trust authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares. In addition, our Board of Trustees may, without shareholder approval, (a) amend our declaration of trust to increase or decrease the aggregate number of common shares or the number of shares of beneficial interest of any class or series that we have authority to issue and (b) classify or reclassify any unissued common shares, preferred shares or any other class of our shares of beneficial interest and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our Board of Trustees may establish and we may issue a class or series of our common shares, preferred shares or other shares of beneficial interest that could delay or prevent a merger, third party tender offer or similar transaction or a change in incumbent management that might involve a premium price for our common shares or which some shareholders may believe to be in the best interest of our shareholders.. Our declaration of trust contains provisions that limit the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders. We are required to indemnify our Trustees and officers in connection with certain proceedings.. Our declaration of trust contains provisions that limit the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty by the Trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated.. Our declaration of trust requires us to indemnify any present or former Trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to or witness in a proceeding by reason of his or her service in those or certain other capacities, from and against any claim or liability to which such person may become subject or which such person may incur by reason of his or her status as a present or former Trustee or officer of us or serving in such other capacities. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we are required to indemnify any such person in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against us only if such proceeding was authorized by our Board of Trustees. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. We will enter into indemnification agreements with our Trustees and officers providing for procedures for indemnification by us and advancements by us of certain expenses and costs relating to claims, suits or proceedings arising from their service to us, in each case, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law.. As a result, we and our shareholders will have more limited rights to recover money damages from our Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent these provisions in our declaration of trust or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions that are not in our best interests.. Our bylaws designate the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland as the exclusive forum for certain actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders against us or any of our Trustees or officers or our Manager or any of its affiliates.. Our bylaws provide that the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland will be the sole and exclusive forum for: (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (b) any action asserting a claim for breach of a duty owed by any of our Trustees or officers or our Manager or any of its affiliates to us or our shareholders; (c) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our Trustees or officers or our Manager or any of its affiliates arising pursuant to applicable law, our declaration of trust or bylaws brought by or on behalf of a shareholder; or (d) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our Trustees or officers or our Manager or any of its affiliates that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. These choice of forum provisions may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder believes is favorable for such disputes and may discourage lawsuits against us and our Trustees and officers and our Manager and its affiliates.. Our intention to remain exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act imposes limits on our operations.. We intend to conduct our operations so that neither we nor any of our subsidiaries is required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We believe we will not be considered an investment company under Section 3(a). 53. Table of Contents. (1)(A) of the Investment Company Act because we will not engage primarily, or hold ourselves out as being engaged primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We may conduct our business, in whole or in part, through wholly or majority owned subsidiaries. Under Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act, the securities issued by these subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of \"investment company\" under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. Government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through subsidiaries. In addition, the assets we may originate or acquire are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the Investment Company Act, which may adversely affect our business.. If the value of securities issued by our subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of \"investment company\" by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we own, exceeds 40% of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. Government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, or if one or more of such subsidiaries fails to maintain an exception or exemption from the Investment Company Act, we could, among other things, be required to either (a) substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common shares. If we or any of our subsidiaries were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, the registered entity would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to capital structure (including the ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change our operations.. Failure to maintain our exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act also would require us to significantly restructure our investment strategy. For example, because affiliate transactions are generally prohibited under the Investment Company Act, we would not be able to enter into transactions with any of our affiliates if we were required to register as an investment company, and we might be required to terminate our Management Agreement and any other agreements with affiliates, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and pay distributions. If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts might be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business.. We expect that we and certain subsidiaries that we may form in the future will rely upon the exemption from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which is available for entities \"primarily engaged\" in the business of \"purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate\". This exemption generally requires that at least 55% of our or our applicable subsidiaries' assets must be comprised of qualifying real estate assets and at least 80% of our or each of our applicable subsidiaries' portfolios must be comprised of qualifying real estate assets and real estate related assets under the Investment Company Act. To the extent that we or any of our subsidiaries rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, we expect to rely on guidance published by the SEC staff or on our analyses of such guidance to determine which assets are qualifying real estate assets and real estate related assets. However, the SEC's guidance was issued in accordance with factual situations that may be different from the factual situations we face, and much of the guidance was issued more than 25 years ago. No assurance can be given that the SEC staff will concur with our classification of our assets. In addition, the SEC staff may, in the future, issue further guidance that may require us to re-classify our assets for purposes of qualifying for an exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act. If we are required to re-classify our assets, we may no longer be in compliance with the exclusion from the definition of an \"investment company\" provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. To the extent that the SEC staff publishes new or different guidance with respect to any assets we have determined to be qualifying real estate assets, we may be required to adjust our strategy accordingly. In addition, we may be limited in our ability to make certain investments, and these limitations could result in a subsidiary holding assets we might wish to sell or selling assets we might wish to hold.. The SEC has not published guidance with respect to the treatment of CMBS for purposes of the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption. Unless we receive further guidance from the SEC or its staff with respect to CMBS, we intend to treat CMBS as a real estate related asset.. We or certain of our subsidiaries may also rely on the exemption provided by Section 3(c)(6) of the Investment Company Act. The SEC staff has issued little interpretive guidance with respect to Section 3(c)(6) of the Investment Company Act and any guidance published by the staff may require us to adjust our strategy accordingly. We intend to structure and conduct our. 54. Table of Contents. business in a manner that does not require our or our subsidiaries' registration under the Investment Company Act and, in so structuring and conducting our business, we may rely on any available exemption from registration, or exclusion from the definition of \"investment company,\" under the Investment Company Act.. We determine whether an entity is one of our majority owned subsidiaries. The Investment Company Act defines a majority owned subsidiary of a person as a company 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of which are owned by such person, or by another company which is a majority owned subsidiary of such person. The Investment Company Act further defines voting securities as any security presently entitling the owner or holder thereof to vote for the election of directors of a company. We treat companies in which we own at least a majority of the outstanding voting securities as majority owned subsidiaries for purposes of the 40% test described above. We have not requested the SEC to approve our treatment of any company as a majority owned subsidiary and the SEC has not done so. If the SEC were to disagree with our treatment of one or more companies as majority owned subsidiaries, we might need to adjust our strategy and our assets in order to continue to pass the 40% test. Any such adjustment in our strategy could have a material adverse effect on us.. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the Investment Company Act status of REITs, including the SEC or its staff providing more specific or different guidance regarding these exemptions, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. If we or our subsidiaries fail to maintain an exception or exemption from the Investment Company Act, we could, among other things, be required either to (a) change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company, (b) sell our assets in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so or (c) register as an investment company, any of which could negatively affect the value of our common shares, the sustainability of our business, and our ability to make distributions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and the market price for our common shares.. Rapid and steep declines in the values of our qualifying real estate or real estate related investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT or exemption from the Investment Company Act.. If the market value or income potential of our qualifying real estate or real estate related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates or other factors, we may need to increase our qualifying real estate or real estate related investments and income and/or liquidate our nonqualifying assets in order to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT or our exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of any nonqualifying assets that we may own. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and Investment Company Act considerations, and those decisions may cause us to experience losses and reduce the market trading price of our common shares.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR TAXATION. Our failure to qualify or to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC could have significant adverse consequences.. We intend to elect and qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2017 and to maintain that qualification thereafter. As a REIT, we generally will not pay federal or most state income taxes as long as we distribute all of our REIT taxable income and meet other qualifications set forth in the IRC. However, actual qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC depends on our satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that will allow us to qualify and continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, pending our timely election with our first REIT income tax return. However, we cannot be sure that the IRS, upon review or audit, will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that the federal government, or any state or other taxation authority, will continue to afford favorable income tax treatment to REITs and their shareholders.. Maintaining our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC will require us to continue to satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders.  In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forgo attractive investments.. If we fail to qualify or to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes, and the market price of our common shares could decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying for taxation as a REIT for the next four taxable years.. 55. Table of Contents. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to specified adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, federal corporate income tax will not apply to the earnings that we distribute, but if we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, then we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the IRC. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws.. We may experience timing and other differences, for example on account of income and expense accrual principles under U.S. federal income tax laws, or on account of repaying outstanding indebtedness, whereby our available cash is less than, or does not otherwise correspond to, our taxable income. In addition, December 2017 amendments to the IRC amended the rules for accrual of income so that income is taken into account no later than when it is taken into account on applicable financial statements, even if financial statements take such income into account before it would accrue under the original issue discount rules, market discount rules or other rules in the IRC. As a result, from time to time we may not have sufficient cash to meet our REIT distribution requirements. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, among other things, we may borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions in order to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders' equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline.. We may be required to report taxable income from particular investments in excess of the economic income we ultimately realize from them.. We may acquire debt instruments in the secondary market for less than their face amount. Though the discount at which such debt instruments are acquired may reflect doubts about their ultimate collectability rather than current market interest rates, the amount of such discount will nevertheless generally be treated as \"market discount\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accrued market discount is generally reported as income when, and to the extent that, any payment of principal of the debt instrument is made. Payments on commercial mortgage loans are ordinarily made monthly, and consequently accrued market discount may have to be included in income each month as if the debt instrument were assured of ultimately being collected in full. If we collect less on the debt instrument than our purchase price plus the market discount we had previously reported as income, we may not be able to benefit from any offsetting loss deductions.. Moreover, some of the CMBS that we might acquire may have been issued with original issue discount. We will be required to report such original issue discount based on a constant yield method and will be taxed based on the assumption that all future projected payments due on such CMBS will be made. If such CMBS turns out not to be fully collectible, an offsetting loss deduction will become available only in the later year that uncollectibility is provable.. Finally, in the event that any debt instruments or CMBS acquired by us are delinquent as to mandatory principal and interest payments, or in the event payments with respect to a particular debt instrument are not made when due, we may nonetheless be required to continue to recognize the unpaid interest as taxable income as it accrues, despite doubt as to its ultimate collectability. Similarly, we may be required to accrue interest income with respect to subordinate CMBS at its stated rate regardless of whether corresponding cash payments are received or are ultimately collectible. In each case, while we would in general ultimately have an offsetting loss deduction available to us when such interest was determined to be uncollectible, the utility of that deduction could depend on our having taxable income in that later year or thereafter.. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own shares, in which case you may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends that you receive.. We may in the future distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our shares. Taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, shareholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to these dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a shareholder sells the shares that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our shares at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to some non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to these dividends, including in respect of all or a part of the dividend that is payable in our shares. In addition, if a significant number of our shareholders determine to. 56. Table of Contents. sell our shares in order to pay taxes owed on dividends paid in shares, then that may put downward pressure on the trading price of our shares.. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates applicable to \"qualified dividends.\". Dividends payable by U.S. corporations to noncorporate shareholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced federal income tax rates applicable to \"qualified dividends.\" Distributions paid by REITs generally are not treated as \"qualified dividends\" under the IRC and the reduced rates applicable to such dividends do not generally apply. However, for tax years beginning after 2017 and before 2026, REIT dividends paid to noncorporate shareholders are generally taxed at an effective tax rate lower than applicable ordinary income tax rates due to the availability of a deduction under the IRC for specified forms of income from passthrough entities. More favorable rates will nevertheless continue to apply to regular corporate \"qualified\" dividends, which may cause some investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our common shares.. Even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.. Even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we may be subject to federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes, and other taxes.  Also, some jurisdictions may in the future limit or eliminate favorable income tax deductions, including the dividends paid deduction, which could increase our income tax expense. In addition, in order to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the IRC, prevent the recognition of particular types of non-cash income, or avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to specified gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold or dispose of some of our assets and conduct some of our operations through our TRSs or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. In addition, while we intend that our transactions with our TRSs will be conducted on arm's length bases, we may be subject to a 100% excise tax on a transaction that the IRS or a court determines was not conducted at arm's length. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. Our investments in construction loans require us to make estimates about the fair value of land improvements that may be challenged by the IRS.. We may invest in construction loans, the interest from which would be qualifying income for purposes of the gross income tests applicable to REITs, provided that the loan value of the real property securing the construction loan was equal to or greater than the highest outstanding principal amount of the construction loan during any taxable year. For purposes of construction loans, the loan value of the real property is generally the fair value of the land plus the reasonably estimated cost of the improvements or developments that secure the loan and that are to be constructed from the proceeds of the loan. There can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge our estimates of the loan values of the real property related to any construction loans in which we invest.. The failure of a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset could adversely affect our ability to qualify or to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC.. We may originate or acquire mezzanine loans, for which the IRS has provided a safe harbor but not rules of substantive law. Pursuant to the safe harbor, if a mezzanine loan meets specified requirements, it will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and interest derived from the mezzanine loan will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the 75% gross income test applicable to REITs. We may originate or acquire mezzanine loans that do not meet all of the requirements of this safe harbor. In the event we own a mezzanine loan that does not meet the safe harbor requirements and the IRS successfully challenges the loan's treatment as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests, then we could fail to qualify or to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC.. We may fail to qualify or to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC if the IRS successfully challenges the treatment of our mezzanine loans as debt for federal income tax purposes or successfully challenges the treatment of our preferred equity investments as equity for federal income tax purposes.. There is limited case law or administrative guidance addressing the treatment of mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments as debt or equity for federal income tax purposes. We expect that mezzanine loans that we may originate or acquire generally will be treated as debt for federal income tax purposes, and preferred equity investments that we may make generally. 57. Table of Contents. will be treated as equity for federal income tax purposes, but we do not anticipate obtaining private letter rulings from the IRS or opinions of counsel on the characterization of those investments for federal income tax purposes. If a mezzanine loan is treated as equity for federal income tax purposes, we will be treated as owning the assets held by the partnership or limited liability company that issued the mezzanine loan and we will be treated as receiving our proportionate share of the income of that entity. If that partnership or limited liability company owns nonqualifying assets or earns nonqualifying income, we may not be able to satisfy all of the REIT gross income and asset tests. Alternatively, if the IRS successfully asserts a preferred equity investment is debt for federal income tax purposes, then that investment may be treated as a nonqualifying asset for purposes of the 75% asset test and as producing nonqualifying income for the 75% gross income test. In addition, such an investment may be subject to the 10% value test and the 5% asset test, and it is possible that a preferred equity investment that is treated as debt for federal income tax purposes could cause us to fail one or more of the foregoing tests. Accordingly, we could fail to qualify or to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC if the IRS does not respect our classification of our mezzanine loans or preferred equity for federal income tax purposes.. The failure of assets subject to our repurchase agreement to qualify as real estate assets could adversely affect our ability to qualify or to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC.. We have entered into a financing arrangement that is structured as a sale and repurchase agreement pursuant to which we will nominally sell assets to the counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase these assets at a later date in exchange for a purchase price. Economically, this agreement is a financing that is secured by the assets sold pursuant to the agreement. We believe that we will be treated for REIT asset and income test purposes as the owner of the assets that are the subject of this sale and repurchase agreement notwithstanding that we may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS may assert that we did not own the assets during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case our qualification for taxation as a REIT may be jeopardized.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.. The REIT provisions of the IRC substantially limit our ability to hedge our assets and liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction that we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute \"gross income\" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests that we must satisfy in order to qualify and to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC. As a result, a qualifying hedge transaction will neither assist nor hinder our compliance with the 75% and 95% gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as nonqualifying income for purposes of both of these gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement some hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in the hedged items than we might otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the TRS.. If we own assets or conduct operations that generate \"excess inclusion income\" outside of a TRS, our doing so could adversely affect our shareholders' taxation and could cause our shares to become ineligible for inclusion in leading market indexes.. Some leading market indexes exclude companies whose dividends to shareholders constitute UBTI. For purposes of the IRC, shareholder dividends attributable to a REIT's \"excess inclusion income\" are treated as UBTI to specified investors, and thus REITs that generate excess inclusion income are generally not eligible for inclusion in these market indexes. Furthermore, REIT dividends attributable to excess inclusion income cause both the REIT and its shareholders to experience a range of disruptive and adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, including the recognition of UBTI by specified tax-exempt shareholders, the unavailability of treaty benefits to non-U.S. shareholders and the unavailability of net operating losses to offset such income with respect to U.S. taxable shareholders. We do not intend to acquire assets or enter into financing or other arrangements that will produce excess inclusion income for our shareholders. As a result, we may forgo investment or financing opportunities that we would otherwise have considered attractive. Furthermore, our analysis regarding our investments' or activities' potential for generating excess inclusion income could be subject to challenge or we could affirmatively modify our position regarding the generation of excess inclusion income in the future. In either case, our shareholders could suffer adverse tax consequences through the recognition of UBTI or the other adverse consequences that flow from excess inclusion income. Furthermore, in such an event, our shares could become ineligible for inclusion in those market indexes that exclude UBTI-generating stock, which could adversely affect demand for our shares and their market price.. 58. Table of Contents. The tax on prohibited transactions limits our ability to engage in transactions, including some methods of securitizing mortgage loans, which would be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions at a gain of property, other than foreclosure property but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. If we were to dispose of or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for U.S. federal income tax purposes, those sales could be viewed as sales to customers in the ordinary course of business and to that extent subject to the 100% tax. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in particular sales of loans, or may limit the structures we utilize for our dispositions or securitization transactions, even though the sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us.. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders.. The rules dealing with U.S. federal, state, and local taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and other taxation authorities. Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect us or our shareholders. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify or to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT or the tax consequences of such qualification.. In addition, December 2017 legislation has made substantial changes to the IRC. Among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate income tax rate, changes in the taxation of individuals and other noncorporate taxpayers that generally reduce their taxes on a temporary basis subject to \"sunset\" provisions, the elimination or modification of various deductions (including substantial limitation of the deduction for personal state and local taxes imposed on individuals), and preferential taxation of income derived by individuals from passthrough entities in comparison to earnings received directly by individuals.  This legislation also imposes additional limitations on the deduction of net operating losses, which may in the future cause us to make additional distributions that will be taxable to our shareholders to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements.  The effect of these and other changes made in this legislation is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common shares and their indirect effect on the value of assets owned by us.  Furthermore, many of the provisions of the new law will require guidance through the issuance of Treasury regulations in order to assess their effect.  There may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us or our shareholders.  It is also possible that there will be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the new law, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our shareholders."
