[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. We must deal with several risk factors during the normal course of business.  You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed insignificant may also impair our business operations.  The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows.. While we consider the foregoing to be the overarching risks we face in 2018, they are not the only material risks we face. We face a numerous other challenges, as described elsewhere in this Annual Report, including below in this \"Risk Factors\" discussion, and other unanticipated risks may develop.. Page 29. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to our Capital Stock. Certain of our current and former providers may bring materially dilutive claims against us.. Beginning with our founding in 1959 and until 1994, we encouraged, and at times required, the doctors and dentists that comprised our provider network to acquire our shares.  Between approximately 1985 and 1994, our predecessor managed care subsidiary, Seguros de Servicios de Salud de Puerto Rico, Inc. (\"SSS\"), generally entered into an agreement with each new physician or dentist who joined our provider network to sell the provider shares of SSS at a future date (each agreement, a \"share acquisition agreement\").  These share acquisition agreements were necessary because there were not enough authorized shares of SSS available during this period and afterwards for issuance to all new providers.  Each share acquisition agreement committed SSS to sell, and each new provider to purchase, five $40-par-value shares of SSS at $40 per share after SSS had increased its authorized share capital in compliance with the Puerto Rico Insurance Code and was in a position to issue new shares.  Despite repeated efforts in the 1990s, SSS was not successful in obtaining shareholder approval to increase its share capital, other than in connection with our reorganization in 1999, when SSS was merged into a newly-formed entity having authorized capital of 25,000 $40-par-value shares, or twice the number of authorized shares of SSS.  SSS's shareholders did not, however, authorize the issuance of the newly formed entity's shares to providers or any other third party.  In addition, subsequent to the reorganization, our shareholders did not approve attempts to increase our share capital in 2002 and 2003.. Notwithstanding the fact that TSS and its predecessor, SSS, were never in a position to issue new shares to providers as contemplated by the share acquisition agreements because shareholder approval for such issuance was never obtained, and the fact that SSS on several occasions in the 1990s offered providers the opportunity to purchase shares of its treasury stock and such offers were accepted by very few providers, providers who entered into share acquisition agreements may claim that the share acquisition agreements entitled them to acquire our or TSS's shares at a subscription price equivalent to that provided for in the share acquisition agreements.  SSS entered into share acquisition agreements with approximately 3,000 providers, the substantial majority of whom never came to own shares of SSS.  Such share acquisition agreements provide for the purchase and sale of approximately 15,000 shares of SSS.  If we or TSS were required to issue a significant number of shares in respect of these agreements, the interest of our existing shareholders would be substantially diluted.  As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, only one judicial claim to enforce any of these agreements has been brought against the Company.  The case was settled by the parties and, on August 2013, dismissed by the court with prejudice. Additionally, we have received several inquiries with respect to share acquisition agreements.  Those agreements do not include anti-dilution protections and we do not believe that the amounts of any claims under the agreements with SSS should be multiplied to reflect the 3,000-for-one stock split effected by us on May 1, 2007.  However, we cannot provide assurances that claimants will not successfully seek to increase the size of their claims by reference to the stock split.. We have been advised by our counsel that, on the basis of a reasoned analysis, while the matter is not free from doubt and there are no applicable controlling precedents, we should prevail in any litigation of these claims because, among other defenses, the condition precedent to SSS's obligations under the share acquisition agreements never occurred, and any obligation it may, or we may be deemed to, have had under the share acquisition agreements should be understood to have expired prior to our corporate reorganization, which took effect in 1999, although the share acquisition agreements do not expressly provide for any expiration.. We believe that we should prevail in any litigation with respect to these matters; however, we cannot predict the outcome of any such litigation, including with respect to the magnitude of any claims that may be asserted by any plaintiff, and the interests of our shareholders could be materially diluted to the extent that claims under the share acquisition agreements are successful.. Page 30. Table of Contents. Heirs of certain of our former shareholders may bring materially dilutive claims against us.. For much of our history, we and our predecessor entity have restricted the ownership or transferability of our shares, including by reserving to us or our predecessor a redemption right with respect to share transfers and by limiting ownership of such shares to physicians and dentists.  In addition, we and our predecessor, consistent with the requirements of our and our predecessor's bylaws, have sought to repurchase shares of deceased shareholders at the amount originally paid for such shares by those shareholders.  Nonetheless, former shareholders' heirs who were not eligible to own or be transferred shares because they were not physicians or dentists at the time of their purported inheritance (\"non-medical heirs\"), may claim an entitlement to our shares or to damages with respect to the repurchased shares notwithstanding applicable transfer and ownership restrictions.  Our records indicate that there may be as many as approximately 450 former shareholders whose non-medical heirs may claim to have inherited up to 10,500,000 shares after giving effect to the 3,000-for-one stock split.  As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are defending various judicial claims by non-medical heirs of former shareholders whose shares were repurchased upon their death seeking the return of such shares or compensation.  See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings  -  Claims by Heirs of Former Shareholders.\"  In addition, from time to time, we receive inquiries from non-medical heirs with respect to shares we have redeemed.. We believe that we should prevail in litigation with respect to these matters; however, we cannot predict the outcome of any such litigation regarding these non-medical heirs.  The interests of our existing shareholders could be materially diluted to the extent that any such claims are successful.. The dual class structure may not successfully protect against significant dilution of your shares of Class B common stock.. We designed our dual class structure of capital stock to offset the potential impact on the value of our Class B common stock attributable to any issuance of shares of common stock for less than market value in respect of a successful claim against us under any share acquisition agreement or by a non-medical heir.  We believe that this mechanism will effectively protect investors in our shares of Class B common stock against any potential dilution attributable to the issuance of any shares in respect of such claims at below market prices.  We cannot, however, provide any assurances that this mechanism will be effective under all circumstances.. While we expect to prevail against any such claims brought against us and, to the extent that we do not prevail, would expect to issue Class A common stock in respect of any such claim, there can be no assurance that the claimants in any such lawsuit will not seek to acquire Class B common stock.  The issuance of a significant number of shares of Class B common stock, if followed by a material further issuance of shares of common stock to separate claimants could impair the effectiveness of the anti-dilution protections of the Class B common stock.  In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that the anti-dilution protections afforded our Class B common stock will not be challenged by share acquisition providers and/or non-medical heir claimants to the extent that these protections limit the percentage ownership of us that may be acquired by such claimants. We believe that such a challenge should not prevail, but cannot provide any assurances of the outcome.. In the event that claimants acquire shares of our managed care subsidiary, TSS, at less than fair value, we will not be able to prevent dilution of the value of the Class B shareholders' ownership interest in us to the extent that the net value received by such claimants exceeds the value of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock.  Finally, the anti-dilution protection afforded by the dual class structure may cease to be of further effect at any time because all remaining shares of Class A common stock may, at the sole discretion of our board of directors and after considering relevant factors, including market conditions at the time, be converted into shares of Class B common stock.  On November 12, 2015, the Company converted 1,426,721 shares of Class A common stock to Class B common stock.. Future sales of our Class B common stock, or the perception that such future sales may occur, may have an adverse impact on its market price.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, could cause the market price of our Class B common stock to decline.  Either of these limits our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. As of December 31, 2017 there were 22,627,077 shares of Class B common stock and 950,968 shares of Class A common stock.  Our Class A common stock is no longer subject to contractual lockup; thus, such shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act by persons other than our ''affiliates'' within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, although such shares will continue not to be listed on the NYSE and will not be fungible with our listed shares of Class B common stock.  All or any portion of our shares of Class A common stock may at the sole discretion of our board of directors and after considering relevant factors, including market conditions at the time, be converted to shares of Class B common stock.. Page 31. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Business. Our inability to contain managed care costs may adversely affect our business and profitability.. A substantial portion of our managed care revenue is generated by premiums consisting of monthly payments per member that are established by contracts with our commercial customers, ASES or CMS (for our Medicare Advantage plans), all of which are typically renewable on an annual basis.  If our medical expenses exceed our estimates, except in very limited circumstances or as a result of risk score adjustments for member acuity in the case of the Medicare Advantage products, we will be unable to increase the premiums we receive under these contracts during the then-current terms.  As a result, our profitability in any year depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to adequately predict and effectively manage our medical expenses related to the provision of managed care services through underwriting criteria, medical management, product design and negotiation of favorable provider contracts with hospitals, physicians and other health care providers.  The aging of the population and other demographic characteristics and advances in medical technology continue to contribute to rising health care costs.  Government-imposed limitations on Medicare reimbursement have also caused the private sector to bear a greater share of increasing health care costs.  Also, we have in the past and may in the future enter into new lines of business in which it may be difficult to estimate anticipated costs.  Numerous factors affecting the cost of managed care, including changes in health care practices, inflation, new technologies such as genetic laboratory screening for diseases including breast cancer, electronic recordkeeping, the cost of prescription drugs, clusters of high cost cases, changes in the regulatory environment including the implementation of ACA, may adversely affect our ability to predict and manage managed care costs, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Introduction of new high cost specialty drugs and sudden costs spikes for existing drugs increase the risk that the pharmacy cost assumptions used to develop our rates are not adequate to cover the actual pharmacy costs, which jeopardizes the overall actuarial soundness of our rates. Bearing the high costs of new specialty drugs or the high cost inflation of generic drugs without an appropriate rate adjustment or other reimbursement mechanism adversely impacts our financial conditional and operational results.  In addition, evolving state and federal regulation may impact the ability of our health plans to continue to receive existing price discounts on pharmaceutical products for our members. Other factors affecting our pharmaceutical costs include, but are not limited to, geographic variation in utilization of new and existing pharmaceuticals, and changes in discounts. Although we will continue to work with state agencies in an effort to ensure that we receive appropriate and actuarially sound reimbursement for all new drug therapies and pharmaceuticals trends, there can be no assurance that we will always be successful.. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our current provider agreements and to enter into other appropriate agreements.. Our profitability is dependent upon our ability to contract on favorable terms with hospitals, physicians and other managed care providers. In recent years some groups of providers have been pressing for legislation that would allow them to collectively negotiate certain contract terms through cooperatives.  As a result, Puerto Rico enacted legislation authorizing providers to collectively negotiate the services fees through cooperatives, on a voluntary basis, with health insurance companies and other healthcare-related organizations. This legislation requires that the Public Corporation for the Supervision and Insurance of Cooperatives adopt regulation that may have a material adverse effect in our business. If collective negotiations with providers become mandatory or we are otherwise required to enter into collective negotiations with providers, it could become more difficult to maintain cost-effective managed care provider contracts, which could adversely affect our business.. Page 32. Table of Contents. We are dependent on a small number of government contracts to generate a significant amount of the revenues of our managed care business.. Our managed care business participates in government contracts that generate a significant amount of our consolidated operating revenues, including:. •  Commercial:    One of our managed care subsidiaries is a qualified contractor to provide managed care coverage to federal government employees within Puerto Rico.  Such coverage is provided pursuant to a contract with the OPM that is subject to termination in the event of non-compliance not corrected to the satisfaction of the OPM.  During each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 premiums generated under this contract represented 5.7%, 5.8% and 5.6% of our consolidated premiums earned, net, respectively.. •  Medicare:    We provide services through our Medicare Advantage products pursuant to a limited number of contracts with CMS.  These contracts generally have terms of one year and must be renewed each year.  Each of our contracts with CMS is cancellable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. If we are unable to renew, or to successfully re-bid or compete for any of these contracts, or if the process for bidding materially changes or if any of these contracts are terminated, our business could be materially impaired.  During each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, contracts with CMS represented 36.6%, 35.4% and 39.4% of our consolidated premiums earned, net, respectively.. Under the commercial business, we also provide health coverage to certain employees of the Government of Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities. Earned premium revenue related to such health plans represented 3.4%, 3.1% and 3.3% of our consolidated premiums earned, net, respectively.. •    Medicaid:    We participate in the government of Puerto Rico Health Reform Program (similar to Medicaid) to provide health coverage to medically indigent citizens in Puerto Rico.  Under the current agreement, TSS offers healthcare services on a fully-insured basis to Medicaid subscribers in the Metro North and West regions.  TSS is also responsible for providing medical, mental, pharmacy and dental healthcare services to Medicaid subscribers in these service regions on an at-risk basis. The current agreement ends on June 30, 2018.  The current agreement with ASES contains certain termination rights for both TSS and ASES, including ASES's right to terminate the agreement as a result of insufficient government funds to pay ASES's obligations under the contract and TSS's right to terminate the agreement within 45 days before the end of each fiscal year if TSS and ASES have not agreed to the per member per month rate. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, premiums generated under our current agreement represented 26.6%, 27.1% and 21.8% of our consolidated premiums earned, net, respectively.  In early February 2018, the Government of Puerto Rico issued a Request for Proposal (\"RFP\") for the administration of its Medicaid program that will introduce significant changes to the model, including the elimination of geographical areas and allowing participants to select insurance carriers. The Company is thoroughly evaluating the RFP and all aspects of the new model, including financial, clinical, operational and systems requirements and risks.. If any of these contracts is terminated for any reason, including by reason of any non-compliance by us, or not renewed or replaced by a comparable contract, our consolidated premiums and profitability earned could be materially adversely affected.  See also \"Risks Relating to the Regulation of our Industry - As a Medicare Advantage program participant, we are subject to complex regulations.\". Page 33. Table of Contents. A change in our managed care commercial product mix may impact our profitability.. Our managed care products that involve greater potential risk, such as fully insured arrangements, generally tend to be more profitable than ASO products and those managed care products where employer groups retain the risk, such as self-funded financial arrangements.  There has been a trend in recent years among our Commercial customers of moving from fully-insured plans to ASO, or self-funded arrangements.  As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, 68% and 66% of our managed care commercial customers, respectively, had fully insured arrangements and 32% and 34%, respectively, had ASO arrangements.  Unfavorable changes in the relative profitability or customer participation among our various products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our failure to accurately estimate incurred but not reported claims would affect our reported financial results.. A portion of the claim liabilities recorded by our insurance segments represents an estimate of amounts needed to pay and adjust anticipated claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have not yet been reported to us.  These amounts are based on estimates of the ultimate expected cost of claims and on actuarial estimation techniques.  Judgment is required in actuarial estimation to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under each segment's current facts and circumstances.  Accordingly, the ultimate liability may be in excess of or less than the amount provided.  We regularly compare prior period liabilities to re-estimate claim liabilities based on subsequent claims development; any difference between these amounts is adjusted in the operations of the period determined.  Additional information on how each reportable segment determines its claim liabilities, and the variables considered in the development of this amount, is included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under \"Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates\".  Actual experience will likely differ from assumed experience, and to the extent the actual claims experience is less favorable than estimated based on our underlying assumptions, our incurred losses would increase and future earnings could be adversely affected.. The termination or modification of our license agreements to use the BCBS name and mark could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA that entitle us to the exclusive use of the BCBS name and mark in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, the British Virgin Islands and Anguilla.  These license agreements contain certain standards, requirements and restrictions regarding our operations and our use of the BCBS name and mark which may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA. Changes to the terms of our license agreements may restrict various potential business activities.  Failure to comply with the standards, requirements and restrictions established could result in the termination of a license agreement.  Events that could cause the termination of a license agreement with the BCBSA include failure to comply with minimum capital requirements imposed by the BCBSA, a change of control or violation of the BCBSA ownership limitations on our capital stock, impending financial insolvency and the appointment of a trustee or receiver or the commencement of any action against a licensee seeking its dissolution.  Upon termination of a license agreement, the BCBSA would impose a re-establishment fee upon us, which would allow the BCBSA to entitle another managed care company to use the BCBS name and marks in the service areas we currently serve.  This re-establishment fee is currently $98.33 per licensed enrollee.  If the re-establishment fee were applied to our total BCBS enrollees as of December 31, 2017, we would be assessed approximately $96.2 million by the BCBSA.. We believe that the BCBS name and mark are valuable identifiers of our products and services in the marketplace.  Termination of these license agreements, including modifications to the current term and conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See \"Item 1.   Business - Blue Cross and Blue Shield License\" for more information.. Page 34. Table of Contents. Our ability to manage our exposure to underwriting risks in our life insurance and property and casualty insurance businesses depends on the availability and cost of reinsurance coverage.. Reinsurance is the practice of transferring part of an insurance company's liability and premium under an insurance policy to another insurance company.  We use reinsurance arrangements to limit and manage the amount of risk we retain, to stabilize our underwriting results and to increase our underwriting capacity.  During 2017, 43.3%, or $62.3 million, of the premiums written in the property and casualty insurance segment and 5.3%, or $8.8 million, of the premiums written in the life insurance segment were ceded to reinsurers.  Total premiums ceded, on a consolidated basis, represent 2.5%, or $71.1 million of our premiums.  The premiums ceded and the availability and cost of reinsurance is subject to changing market conditions and may vary significantly over time.  Any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance coverage will increase our risk of loss.  We may be unable to maintain our desired reinsurance coverage or obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts and at favorable rates.  If we are unable to renew our expiring coverage or obtain new coverage, it will be difficult for us to manage our underwriting risks and operate our business profitably.. It is also possible that the losses we experience on insured risks for which we have obtained reinsurance will exceed the coverage limits of the reinsurance.  See \"Risks Related to Our Business-Large scale natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.\"  If the amount of our reinsurance coverage is insufficient, our insurance losses could increase substantially.. If our reinsurers do not pay our claims or do not pay them in a timely manner, we may incur losses.. We are subject to loss and credit risk with respect to the reinsurers with whom we deal.  In accordance with general industry practices, our property and casualty and life insurance subsidiaries annually purchase reinsurance to lessen the impact of large unforeseen losses and mitigate sudden and unpredictable changes in our net income and shareholders' equity.  Reinsurance contracts do not relieve us from our obligations to policyholders.  In the event that all or any of the reinsurance companies are unable to meet their obligations under existing reinsurance agreements or pay on a timely basis, we will continue to be liable to our policyholders notwithstanding such defaults or delays.  If our reinsurers are not capable of fulfilling their financial obligations to us, our insurance losses would increase, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. A downgrade in our A.M. Best rating could affect our ability to write new business or renew our existing business in our property and casualty segment.. Ratings assigned by A.M. Best are an important factor influencing the competitive position of the property and casualty insurance companies in Puerto Rico.  In 2017, A.M. Best classified our property and casualty insurance subsidiary's rating as \"A-\" (the fourth highest of A.M. Best's 16 financial strength ratings).  On October 13, 2017, A.M. Best released the updated Best's Credit Rating Methodology (BCRM).  The BCRM is a reorganization of the core credit rating methodology.  Our property and casualty business was identified as being potentially affected by the implementation of the updated BCRM.  A.M. Best is assessing the effect that the updates to the BCRM have on our current rating and will complete a corresponding rating update in the near term.  Moreover, we expect that due consideration will be placed on the effects of Hurricanes Irma and Maria in the business.. A.M. Best ratings represent independent opinions of financial strength and ability to meet obligations to policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors.  Financial strength ratings are used by brokers and customers as a means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers.  A.M. Best reviews its ratings periodically and we may not be able to maintain our current ratings in the future.  A downgrade of our property and casualty segments rating could limit or prevent us from writing  and renewing certain types of business or accounts that requires insurers with stronger ratings.  Since the lines of business that this segment writes and the market in which it operates are particularly sensitive to changes in A.M. Best financial strength ratings.. Page 35. Table of Contents. We are dependent on the success of our relationships with third parties for various services and functions, including PBM services.. We contract with various third parties to perform certain functions and services and provide us with certain information technology systems. Certain of these third parties provide us with significant portions of our business infrastructure and operating requirements, and we could become overly dependent on key vendors, which could cause us to lose core competencies. A termination of our agreements with, or disruption in the performance of, one or more of these service providers could result in service disruptions or unavailability, reduced service quality and effectiveness, increased or duplicative costs or an inability to meet our obligations to our customers. In addition, we may also have to seek alternative service providers, which may be unavailable or only available on less favorable contract terms. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, reputation, cash flows, financial condition and operating results.. TSS entered into a Master Services Agreement (\"MSA\") with OptumInsight, Inc. (\"Optum\"), pursuant to which Optum will provide healthcare technology and operations services, including information technology, claims processing and application development, to Triple-S and its affiliates. As a result, we are now dependent on Optum for the provision of essential services to our business, and there can be no assurances that the quality of the services will be appropriate or that Optum will be able to continue to provide us with the necessary claims processing and technology services. Potential breakdowns or failures of Optum could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The aforementioned contract is included as Exhibit 10.29 filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Significant competition and market conditions in Puerto Rico could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.. We are subject to strong competition in each line of business in which we operate.  Competition in the insurance industry is based on many factors, including premiums charged, services provided, speed of claim payments and reputation.  This competitive environment has produced and will likely continue to produce significant pressures in our profitability. The industry in which we operate has unique characteristics that, if we are unable to manage adequately, may adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations.  Some of the trends and characteristics related to the competition we face in our different lines of business include the following:. •      The managed care market in Puerto Rico is mature.  According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Puerto Rico's population decreased by 2.2% between 2000 and 2010; however, the national population rate grew 9.7% during the same period.  According to the US Census Bureau, the older population is an important and growing segment of the United States population.  Between 2000 and 2010, the population 65 years and older increased at a faster rate (15.1%) than the total U.S. population.  In Puerto Rico, for the same period, the population 65 years and older increased by 27.5 %. As a result, in order to increase our profitability we believe that we must increase our membership in the Medicare Advantage program, increase market share in the commercial sector, improve our operating profit margins, make acquisitions or expand geographically.. •      Local economy is in a downturn.  A challenging economy and a shrinking population in Puerto Rico continue to produce conditions that are adverse to the generation of new sources of business in this segment.  As a result, insurance companies compete for the same customers through pricing, policy terms and quality of services.  Also, our industry is also subject to aggressive marketing and sales practices that target our current and prospective customers. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining our customers.. •      Our industry is highly regulated.  Future legislation at the federal and local levels may also result in increased competition, especially in the managed care segment.  While we do not anticipate that any of the current legislative proposals of which we are aware would increase the competition we face, future legislative proposals, if enacted, might do so.. •      Market concentration. Concentration in our industry has created an increasingly competitive environment, both for customers and for potential acquisition targets, which may make it difficult for us to grow our business.  The parent companies of some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do.  We may have difficulty competing with larger companies, which can create downward price pressures on premium rates.. Page 36. Table of Contents. We believe these trends will continue.  There can be no assurance that these competitive pressures will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a holding company, we are largely dependent on rental payments, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries, although the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us is subject to the regulations of the Commissioner of Insurance, including maintenance of minimum levels of capital, as well as covenant restrictions in their indebtedness.. We are a holding company whose assets include, among other things, all of the outstanding shares of common stock of our subsidiaries, including our regulated insurance subsidiaries.  We principally rely on rental income and dividends from our subsidiaries to fund our debt service, dividend payments and operating expenses, although our subsidiaries may not declare dividends every year.  We also benefit to a lesser extent from income on our investment portfolio.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to the regulations of the Commissioner of Insurance requiring, among other things, to maintain certain levels of capital, thereby restricting the amount of earnings that can be distributed.  See \"Risks Related to Our Business - Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital requirements.  Our failure to meet these standards could subject us to regulatory actions.\"  Our subsidiaries' ability to make any payments to us will also depend on their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness, if any, and other business and legal restrictions.  Furthermore, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us, and creditors of our subsidiaries have a superior claim to such subsidiaries' assets.  Our subsidiaries may not be able to pay dividends or otherwise contribute or distribute funds to us in an amount sufficient for us to meet our financial obligations.  In addition, from time to time, we may find it necessary to provide financial assistance, either through subordinated loans or capital infusions to our subsidiaries that may adversely affect our financial condition.. Our results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry.. Results of companies in the insurance industry, and particularly the property and casualty insurance industry, historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties.  The industry's profitability can be affected significantly by:. •  rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products;. •  volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made and natural catastrophes;. •  changes in reserves resulting from the general claims and legal environments as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers' liability develop; and. •  fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested capital.. Historically, the financial performance of the insurance industry has fluctuated in cyclical periods of low premium rates and excess underwriting capacity resulting from increased competition, followed by periods of high premium rates and a shortage of underwriting capacity resulting from decreased competition.  Fluctuations in underwriting capacity, demand and competition, and the impact on us of the other factors identified above, could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.  We believe that underwriting capacity and price competition in the current market is increasing.  This additional underwriting capacity may result in increased competition from other insurers seeking to expand the kinds or amounts of business they write or cause some insurers to seek to maintain market share at the expense of underwriting discipline.  We may not be able to retain or attract customers in the future at prices we consider adequate.. Page 37. Table of Contents. Our investment portfolios are subject to varying economic and market conditions.. We have exposure to market risk and credit risk in our investment activities.  The fair values of our investments vary from time to time depending on economic and market conditions.  Fixed maturity securities expose us to interest rate risk as well as credit risk.  Equity securities expose us to equity price risk.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions.  These and other factors also affect the equity securities owned by us.  The outlook of our investment portfolio depends on the future direction of interest rates, fluctuations in the equity markets and the amount of cash flows available for investment.  For additional information, see \"Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" for an analysis of our exposure to interest and equity price risks and the procedures in place to manage these risks.  Our investment portfolios may lose money in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. In addition, our insurance subsidiaries are subject to local laws and regulations that require diversification of our investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain riskier investment categories, such as below-investment-grade fixed income securities, mortgage loans, and real estate and equity investments, among others, which could generate higher returns on our investments.  If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, any investments exceeding regulatory limitations would be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and risk-based capital.. The securities and credit markets could experience extreme volatility and disruption.. Adverse conditions in the U.S. and global capital markets could significantly and adversely affect the value of our investments in debt and equity securities, other investments, our profitability and our financial position.. As an insurer, we have a substantial investment portfolio that is comprised particularly of debt securities of issuers located in the U.S.  As a result, the income we earn from our investment portfolio is largely driven by the level of interest rates in the U.S. financial markets, volatility, uncertainty and/or disruptions in the global capital markets, particularly the U.S. credit markets, and governments' monetary policy.  These factors can significantly and adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, our profitability and/or our financial position by:. •  Significantly reducing the value of the debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and creating net realized capital losses that reduce our operating results and/or net unrealized capital losses that reduce our shareholders' equity.. •  Lowering interest rates on high quality short-term debt securities and thereby materially reducing our net investment income and operating results.. •  Making it more difficult to value certain of our investment securities, for example if trading becomes less frequent, which could lead to significant period-to-period changes in our estimates of the fair values of those securities and cause period-to-period volatility in our operating results and shareholders' equity.. •  Reducing our ability to issue other securities.. We evaluate our investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis.  This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment.  It also requires us to make certain assessments about the potential recovery of the assets we hold.  For the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities is based upon specific identification.. We believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under credit agreement, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements.  However, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions could significantly affect the availability of credit.. For additional information, see \"Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" for an analysis of our exposure to interest and equity price risks and the procedures in place to manage these risks.  Our investment portfolios may lose money in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Page 38. Table of Contents. In addition, our insurance subsidiaries are subject to local laws and regulations that require diversification of our investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain riskier investment categories, such as below-investment-grade fixed income securities, mortgage loans, and real estate and equity investments, among others, which could generate higher returns on our investments. Notwithstanding, the Insurance Code of Puerto Rico requires insurers to invest an amount equal to no less than half of the insurer's required capital in Puerto Rico Securities. Since February 2014, the credit ratings of bonds issued by the Government of Puerto Rico and most of Puerto Rico public corporations have been downgraded to below-investment grade. As a result, on March 2014, the Puerto Rico Legislative Assembly enacted legislation allowing insurance companies to hold investments that were acquired at an investment grade rating but subsequently downgraded below-investment grades for period not exceeding three years from the date of acquisition. This legislation also authorizes the Commissioner of Insurance, upon an insurer's request, to provide a three-year extension of the holding period, or an exemption to dispose of the downgraded investment.  The Insurance Code requirement that insurers invest in Puerto Rico securities may affect our ability to invest in other securities with a higher investment credit rating, the overall value of our investment portfolio and our financial condition. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, any investments exceeding regulatory limitations would be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and risk-based capital and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is geographically concentrated in Puerto Rico and weakness in the economy and the fiscal health of the government has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact us, particularly following Hurricanes Irma and Maria.. Our principal lines of business are concentrated in Puerto Rico, which is currently in the midst of a severe fiscal and economic crisis resulting primarily from a continuing economic recession, significant and recurrent budget deficits, accelerated out-migration, a high debt-to-revenue ratio, unfunded pension liabilities and the loss of access to the capital markets, among other factors. Such fiscal and economic crisis has been recently exacerbated as a result of the impact of hurricanes Irma and María in September 2017. The hurricanes have had an adverse impact on economic activity, have accelerated out-migration trends, and have required the government to incur substantial extraordinary expenditures while experiencing a significant decrease in tax and other revenues.. Even before the hurricanes, Puerto Rico was facing an enduring economic crisis. It's gross national product (\"GNP\") had contracted in real terms since fiscal year 2006. According to the latest Puerto Rico Planning Board estimates, released in April 2017 (before the impact of the hurricanes), GNP was projected to decrease by 1.7% and 1.5% in constant dollars for fiscal years 2017 and 2018, respectively. Following the hurricanes, however, the government projects an 11% contraction in real GNP during fiscal year 2018, followed by five fiscal years of economic growth (due primarily to the positive impact of Federal emergency assistance and significant recovery spending), according to the latest draft of the government's proposed fiscal plan (further discussed below).. The weakness of Puerto Rico's economy has also adversely affected employment.  Total employment in Puerto Rico decreased approximately 20% from fiscal year 2007 to fiscal year 2016.  The reduction in total employment began in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 and continued consistently through the first half of fiscal year 2015 due to the current recession and the fiscal adjustment measures implemented by the government. According to the Household Survey, during fiscal year 2016, total employment increased by 1.8% when compared to the prior fiscal year, and the unemployment rate averaged 11.7%, compared to 13.0% for the prior fiscal year.  For the first five months of fiscal year 2017, total employment decreased by 0.4% with respect the first five months of fiscal year 2016. It is still too early to fully assess the impact of the hurricanes on employment levels. However, total employment may decrease, and total unemployment may increase, at least in the short-term, as a result of the hurricanes. Subsequently, Puerto Rico is expected to see some increased economic activity due to Island's hurricane recovery efforts, reflecting expected funds from insurance payouts and federal aid.. Despite the implementation a number of extraordinary expense reduction, revenue increase and liquidity management measures, the Government's structural deficit, coupled with the continuing recession, decreasing employment, lack of capital market access, and the insolvency of Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico, eventually resulted in the government being unable to make scheduled debt service payments while continuing to provide essential services in 2016. A moratorium on most debt service payments has been in place since then and the Commonwealth and certain of its instrumentalities are currently in the process of restructuring their debts pursuant to the debt restructuring mechanisms established by the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act (\"PROMESA\"), which was enacted by the U.S. Congress in June 2016.. Pursuant to PROMESA, the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico (the \"Oversight Board\"), an oversight board for Puerto Rico created by the statute, certified fiscal plans for the Commonwealth and certain of its instrumentalities between June and August 2017.  In December 2017, however, the Oversight Board requested that the government submit revised fiscal plans, taking into account the impact of the hurricanes. The government has submitted various drafts of such fiscal plans to the Oversight Board, which are currently under its review. The Oversight Board has stated that it expects to certify revised fiscal plans for the Commonwealth, the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (\"PREPA\") and the Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Authority (\"PRASA\") by March 30, 2018. The fiscal plans (the ones certified by the Oversight Board last year and the most recent drafts of the revised fiscal plans) reflect that the government and its instrumentalities will not have sufficient revenues to pay their debts service obligations in full while continuing to provide essential services, implying a need for significant debt relief. Furthermore, the Commonwealth's proposed fiscal plan states that it will need to access financing from the Federal government this fiscal year in order to cover its operating expenses and those of PREPA and PRASA.. Page 39. Table of Contents. The Commonwealth's proposed fiscal plan also includes a number of measures intended to be implemented by the government to address its many fiscal and economic challenges.  As part of such measures, the Puerto Rico government proposes to make significant changes to the Government Health Plan, which the government expects will result in savings of approximately $795 million by fiscal year 2023. The changes being contemplated include the expansion of the current regional system to a single region, allowing members to choose their managed care organizations, and establishing limits to benefits based on the actual needs of the beneficiaries, among others.. We have significant direct exposure to the government through our contract with the Puerto Rico Health Services Administration, which administers the government health plan, and certain other business relationships with the Government of Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities. As a result, we may be adversely affected by the liquidity problems of such entities. Moreover, it is uncertain if any of the proposed reforms to the Government's health insurance system will be implemented and, if implemented, what effect, if any, such reforms will have our business and results of operations. On the other hand, as part of the emergency supplemental legislation passed by Congress, Puerto Rico's Medicaid spending cliff has been addressed for at least the next two years, because of the approval of $4.8 billion in Medicaid Funding.  This action will bring financial stability to Puerto Rico's Medicaid program, and funding conditions related to compliance with program management standards will further promote stability and predictability.. Furthermore, our insureds' financial capacity is affected by, among other things, the general economic conditions in Puerto Rico and other adverse conditions affecting Puerto Rico consumers and businesses.  The effects of the prolonged recession are reflected in a decrease in insured customers in our commercial lines of business and premiums earned, net. The amount of insured customers and premiums earned could also be further adversely impacted following the hurricanes. Moreover, the measures taken to address the fiscal crisis and those that may have to be taken in the near future, coupled with the effects of hurricanes Irma and María, will likely affect many of our insureds, which could result in a lower amount of insureds, insureds moving to lower premium plans, among others.  The foregoing could also result in decreased demand for our insurance products or migration to less profitable products.. If global or local economic conditions worsen or the Government of Puerto Rico is unable to manage its fiscal and economic challenges, including consummating an orderly restructuring of its debt obligations while continuing to provide essential services, the conditions described above could continue or worsen in ways that are unpredictable and outside of our control.  While PROMESA provides the Commonwealth with tools to restructure the debt obligations of the Commonwealth and its instrumentalities, these restructuring tools are new and untested.  Furthermore, the Commonwealth's projections indicate the possibility of significant creditor losses. Both of these factors may make any debt restructuring process a lengthy and highly adversarial process. These factors could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition.. Page 40. Table of Contents. The success of our business depends on developing and maintaining effective information systems.. Our business and operations may be affected if we do not maintain and upgrade our information systems and the integrity of our proprietary information.  We are materially dependent on our information systems, including Internet-enabled products and information, for all aspects of our business operations.  Monitoring utilization and other factors, supporting our managed care management techniques, processing provider claims and providing data to our regulators, and our ability to compete depends on adopting technology on a timely and cost-effective basis.  Malfunctions in our information systems, fraud, error, communication and energy disruptions, security breaches or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, alienate customers, contribute to customer and provider disputes, result in regulatory violations and possible liability, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences.  The use of member data by all of our businesses is regulated at federal and local levels.  These laws and rules change frequently and developments require adjustments or modifications to our technology infrastructure.. Our information systems and applications require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, upgrade and enhance existing systems and develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, compliance with legal requirements (such as a new set of standardized diagnostic codes, known as ICD-10), and changing operational needs. In addition, we may from time to time obtain significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties, which may make our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to perform adequately.  If we are unable to comply with ICD-10 requirements, or to maintain effective and efficient information systems, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  If the information we rely upon to run our business were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain our information systems and data integrity effectively we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing and reserves, loss of members, and difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences.. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks.  Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security system and patient data stored in our information systems.  Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations.  The internet is a public network and data is sent over this network from many sources.  In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet.  Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators.. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches.  Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss.  We are taking all needed security measures to prevent security breaches, and ensure our business operations won't be adversely affected by potential security breaches.. Page 41. Table of Contents. We face risks related to litigation.. We are subject to a variety of legal actions that affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims and intellectual property-related litigation.  In addition, because of the nature of our business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management and offering of our products and services, claims relating to the denial of benefits or coverage, medical malpractice actions, allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities, provider disputes, broker and agent disputes, and claims by regulatory actions by agencies for non-compliance, among others.  Legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable and we cannot ascertain their outcome. We have insurance to cover liabilities relating to litigation; however, insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover any such liability or our insurers could deny or dispute coverage.  Results of regulatory actions could require us to change our business practices and may affect our profitability. Substantial liability relating to legal or regulatory actions could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations, and financial conditions.  See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\". Large-scale natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Puerto Rico has historically been at a relatively high risk of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes.  If Puerto Rico were to experience a large-scale natural disaster, claims incurred by our managed care, property and casualty and life insurance segments would likely increase and our properties may incur substantial damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, unforeseen major public health issues following these catastrophic events, such as pandemics and epidemics, like mosquito-borne epidemics (Dengue, Zika, etc.), conditions for which vaccines may not exist, are not effective, or have not been widely administered, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Claims in our property and casualty business increased in 2017 after the landing of Hurricanes Irma and Maria in Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rico Insurance Code requires the Company to resolve claims within a period of 90 days.  Due to the substantial increase in the volume of claims following a catastrophic event, there is a business risk that not all claims will be resolved within the timeframe stipulated in the Puerto Rico Insurance Code, which may result in penalties imposed by the Commissioner of Insurance of Puerto Rico.. Present and future covenants in our secured term loans and note purchase agreements may restrict our operations and adversely affect our ability to pursue desirable business opportunities.. The secured term loan and the note purchase agreements governing the notes contain financial and non-financial covenants that restrict, among other things, the granting of certain liens, limitations on acquisitions and limitations on changes in control.  These non-financial covenants could restrict our operations.  In addition, if we fail to make any required payment under our secured term loans or note purchase agreements governing the notes or to comply with any of the non-financial covenants included therein, we would be in default and the lenders or holders of our debt, as the case may be, could cause all of our outstanding debt obligations under our secured term loans or note purchase agreements to become immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest and, in the case of the secured term loans, cease to make further extensions of credit.  If the indebtedness under our secured term loans or note purchase agreements is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or re-finance the amounts due and our business may be materially adversely affected.. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future.  Our debt service obligations may require us to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal on debt instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion.  If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to seek extraordinary dividends from our subsidiaries, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt.  However, these measures might be prohibited by applicable regulatory requirements, unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility.. Page 42. Table of Contents. Our breach or failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our secured term loan and note purchase agreements and the acceleration of amounts due thereunder.  Indebtedness could also limit our ability to pursue desirable business opportunities, and may affect our ability to maintain an investment grade rating for our indebtedness.. If we do not effectively manage the growth of our operations and our acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve our profitability targets.. Our growth strategy includes enhancing our market share in Puerto Rico, entering new geographic markets, introducing new insurance products and programs, further developing our relationships with independent agencies or brokers and pursuing acquisition opportunities.  Our growth strategy exposes us to additional risks, including our ability to:. •  identify profitable growth opportunities in current and additional markets;. •  transact successful acquisitions, capital investments and other growth initiatives;. •  determine the correct value of assets and investments;. •  implement adequate pricing and operational structure, including underwriting and claim management processes;. •  design attractive and profitable insurance and health products and services;. •  recruit required personnel for expanded operations, including officers, agents, brokers, medical providers, and other key personnel;. •  obtain regulatory permission required to operate in other jurisdictions or lines of business;. •  comply with regulatory requirements;. •  integrate acquired business to our operations, including integration of information technology, management and personnel, and administrative systems;. •  create the expected return over time; and. •  Implement new, or modify existing internal monitoring and control systems.. Additionally, our management and other key personnel may expend considerable time and effort which may distract them from their core activities. We may face risk associated to unknown or unidentified liabilities resulting from our investments or acquisitions. We may also be subject to changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting our business, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and laws prohibiting corrupt payments. Deterioration of social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region and difficulties in managing foreign operations may also adversely affect our operations or financial results.  Also, fluctuations in foreign currency rates could affect our financial results.. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, it may adversely affect our financial condition and future results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017 we had approximately $25.4 million and $3.6 million of goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet, primarily related to the TSA acquisition, that represent 0.9% of our total consolidated assets and 3.2% of our consolidated stockholders' equity.  If we make additional acquisitions it is likely that we will record additional goodwill and intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet.. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine the recoverability of their carrying values.  Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment at least annually.  Impairment testing requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting units, including goodwill and other intangible assets (with indefinite lives).  Estimated fair values developed based on our assumptions and judgments might be significantly different if other reasonable assumptions and estimates were to be used.  If estimated fair values are less than the carrying values of the equity and other intangible assets with indefinite lives in future impairment tests, or if significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may be required to record significant impairment losses against future income.  Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in the industry.. Page 43. Table of Contents. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations and stockholders' equity in the period in which the impairment occurs.  A material decrease in stockholders' equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants.. In addition, the estimated value of our reporting units may be impacted as a result of the implementation of various Health Care Reform regulations.  Such regulations could have significant effects on our future operations, which in turn could unfavorably affect our ability to support the carrying value of certain goodwill and other intangible assets and result in significant impairment charges in future periods.  See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets\".. The effectiveness of our Company's strategy, talent management and alignment of talent to our business needs and risks to our brand and reputation present overarching risks our Company.. We expect to face significant business challenges and uncertainties in 2018. Effectiveness of our enterprise strategy, talent management and alignment of talent to our business needs and risks to our brand and reputation present overarching risks to our enterprise in 2018. There can be no assurance regarding the effectiveness of our enterprise strategy, our ability to manage and align our talent to our business needs or our ability to avoid harm to our brand and reputation. In addition, there can be no assurance that U.S. government fiscal policy, the implementation of the ACA, repeal or other changes to the ACA or additional changes to the U.S. health care system will not require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business, put us at risk of loss of business or materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial position or operating results.. Risks Relating to Taxation. If we are considered to be a controlled foreign corporation under the related person insurance income rules or a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, U.S. persons that own our shares of Class B common stock could be subject to adverse tax consequences.. We do not expect that we will be considered a controlled foreign corporation under the related person insurance income rules (a \"RPII CFC\") for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  However, because RPII CFC status depends in part upon the correlation between an insurance company's shareholders and such company's insurance customers and the extent of such company's insurance business outside its country of incorporation, there can be no assurance that we will not be a RPII CFC in any taxable year.  We do not intend to monitor whether we generate RPII or becomes a RPII CFC.. Based on our current business assets and operations, we do not expect that we will be considered a ''passive foreign investment company'' (a \"PFIC\") for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  However, because PFIC status depends upon the composition of our income and assets and the market value of our assets (including, among others, less than 25 percent owned equity investments) in each year, which may be uncertain and may vary substantially over time, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year.  Our belief that it is not a PFIC is based, in part, on the fact that the PFIC rules include provisions intended to provide an exception for bona fide insurance companies predominately engaged in an insurance business.  However, the scope of this exception is not entirely clear and there are no administrative pronouncements, judicial decisions or Treasury regulations that provide guidance as to the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies.. Page 44. Table of Contents. If we were a RPII CFC in any taxable year or if the Company was treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, certain adverse consequences could apply to certain U.S. persons that own our shares of Class B common stock.. Legislative and other measures that may be taken by Puerto Rico governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden.. In July 2015, Puerto Rico enacted legislation increasing the aggregate sales and use tax rate from 7% to 11.5% (10.5% payable to the Puerto Rico Department of the Treasury (the \"Central Government SUT\") and 1% payable to the municipality (the \"Municipal SUT\")) and imposing a 4% sales and use tax payable to the Puerto Rico Department of the Treasury on certain services previously covered by the business to business exemption and designated professional services. The increase from 7% to 11.5% became effective in July 1, 2015 and the 4% tax became effective October 1, 2015. Under the approved legislation the sales and use tax does not apply to Medicare and Medicaid services. Moreover, in light of Puerto Rico's current fiscal and economic challenges, it is uncertain whether further tax-related legislation affecting the heath care or insurance industry may be enacted in an effort to increase Puerto Rico's tax revenues.  Any increase in the amount of taxes we pay and the taxation of the customers we serve may have a material adverse effect to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry. Changes in governmental regulations, or the application thereof, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to substantial federal and local regulation and frequent changes to the applicable legislative and regulatory schemes, including general business regulations and laws relating to taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, insurance, Medicare and health care fraud and abuse laws.  Please refer to \"Item 1.   Business  -  Regulation\".  Changes in these laws, enactment of new laws or regulations, changes in interpretation of these laws or changes in enforcement of these laws and regulations may materially impact our business.  Such changes include without limitation:. •  initiatives to provide greater access to coverage for uninsured and under-insured populations without adequate funding to health plan or to be funded through taxes or other negative financial levy on health plans;. •  payments to health plans that are tied to achievement of certain quality performance measures and by health plans that do not satisfy applicable medical loss ratio requirements;. •  other efforts or specific legislative changes to the Medicare or Medicaid programs, including changes in the bidding process or other means of materially reducing premiums;. •  local government regulatory changes;. •  increased government enforcement, or changes in interpretation or application, of fraud and abuse and health information privacy laws; and. •  regulations that increase the operational burden on health plans that increase a health plan's exposure to liabilities, including efforts to expand the tort liability of health plans.. Regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of Insurance, among other things, influence how our insurance subsidiaries conduct business and solicit subscriptions for shares of capital stock, and place limitations on investments and dividends.  Possible penalties for violations of such regulations include fines, orders to cease or change practices or behavior and possible suspension or termination of licenses.  The regulatory powers of the Commissioner of Insurance are designed to protect policyholders, not shareholders.  While we cannot predict the terms of future regulation, the enactment of new legislation could affect the cost or demand of insurance policies, limit our ability to obtain rate increases in those cases where rates are regulated, otherwise restrict our operations, limit the expansion of our business, expose us to expanded liability or impose additional compliance requirements.  In addition, we may incur additional operating expenses in order to comply with new legislation and may be required to revise the ways in which we conduct our business.. Page 45. Table of Contents. Future regulatory actions by the Commissioner of Insurance or other governmental agencies, including federal regulations, could have a material adverse effect on the profitability or marketability of our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could impact the value of our business model and result in potential impairments of our goodwill and other intangible assets.. The health care reform law and the implementation of that law could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.. The ACA provides comprehensive changes to the U.S. health care system.  One key piece of the legislation imposes an annual insurance industry assessment, with increasing annual amounts based on premium growth, set to be $14.3 billion for 2018.  Such assessment may not be deductible for income tax purposes.  If the cost of the federal premium tax is not included in the calculation of our rates, or if we are unable to otherwise adjust our business model to address this new tax, our results of operations, financial position and liquidity may be materially adversely affected.. Also, health plans serving the individual market are subject to the guaranteed issue provisions under which the plans are required to issue coverage to individuals without regard to their health status of pre-existing conditions, which could lead to adverse selection by consumers.  On July 16, 2014, the Department of Health and Human Services sent a letter or the Commissioner of Insurance of Puerto Rico notifying that guarantee issue provisions under ACA are not applicable to U.S. territories. However, on July 22, 2013, similar guarantee issue and other market reforms provisions were enacted in Puerto Rico as part of amendments made to the Health Insurance Code of Puerto Rico. Although the Puerto Rico legislature is considering additional legislation to provide insurance companies more flexibility to comply with the additional requirements enacted in 2013, it is uncertain whether such legislation will in fact be enacted or the effect of any such additional legislation may have on our business. If we are unable to adapt our premium structure to address the guaranteed issue requirement, our results of operations, financial position and liquidity may be materially adversely affected.. In the years since its enactment, there have been, and continue to be, significant developments in, and continued legislative activity around, attempts to repeal or repeal and replace the ACA. For example, on October 12, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order requiring the implementation of regulations that would exempt certain association plans from complying with ACA requirements, easing restrictions on certain short-term health plans and health reimbursement arrangements and limiting hospital and insurance company consolidation while promoting competition and choice. Additionally, on January 22, 2018, President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that suspends the  implementation of the annual insurance industry assessment for tax year 2019. In February 2018 the Administration revealed a notice of proposed rulemaking to support short term, limited duration scope policies, and additional activity related to the individual market is anticipated through state waivers.  While Congress is no longer actively seeking to repeal and replace the ACA, additional changes are expected this year, largely through Administrative Actions.. As part of the emergency supplemental legislation passed by Congress, Puerto Rico's Medicaid spending cliff has been addressed for at least the next two years, because of the approval of $4.8 billion in Medicaid Funding.  This action will bring financial stability to Puerto Rico's Medicaid program, and funding conditions related to compliance with program management standards will further promote stability and predictability. Although we believe this legislation, together with the ACA, may provide us with significant opportunities to grow our business, the  implementation of enacted reforms, such as the continued cuts in the effective Medicare Advantage rates applicable to our plans, as well as future regulations and legislative changes, may in fact have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity.  If we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of health care reform, or do not do so as effectively as our competitors, our business may be materially adversely affected.. Page 46. Table of Contents. As a Medicare Advantage program participant, we are subject to complex regulations.  If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be exposed to criminal sanctions and significant civil penalties, and our Medicare Advantage contracts may be terminated or our operations may be required to change in a manner that has a material impact on our business.. The laws and regulations governing Medicare Advantage program participants are complex, subject to interpretation and frequent change and can expose us to penalties for non-compliance.  If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal fines, civil penalties or other sanctions, including the termination of our Medicare Advantage contracts.  In addition, maintaining compliance with such laws and regulations as they change may, in some cases, entail substantial direct costs.. Under CMS regulations to implement certain ACA requirements that became effective on June 1, 2012, CMS has the authority not to renew our contracts beginning in 2015 based solely on the Star Ratings of our Medicare Advantage plans if their respective ratings do not achieve three or more stars (out of 5.0 stars) for three consecutive contract years.  See the subcaption \"Federal Regulation\" in Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K for detailed information of the Stars Ratings. In the final call letter to Medicare Advantage organizations dated April 6, 2015, CMS stated that it would not delay contract terminations based on a plan's Star Ratings.. Historically, the TSA plans have received annual Star Ratings of three or more stars.  CMS provides a quality bonus to plans with Star Ratings of 3.5 or more. As of December 31, 2017, TSA's HMO plan achieved 4.0 overall on a 5.0 star rating system, and achieved 4.5 stars in Part D and TSA's PPO plan maintained its 3.5 stars and achieved 5.0 stars in Part D.. The Company is subject, and will likely continue to be subject, to audits from CMS in connection with the Medicare Advantage contracts. CMS audit may review the effectiveness of multiple matters, including the performance of the benefit administration, coverage determinations, process of appeals and grievances, dismissals, oversight of agents and brokers, and enrollment process.  CMS may impose civil monetary penalties as a result of their findings or require changes to our business practices that may adversely affect our profitability. CMS may also terminate any of our Medicare Advantage contracts if it determines that any of these plans have failed to substantially carry out the contract or is carrying out the contract in a manner that is inconsistent with the efficient or effective administration of the Medicare Advantage program.  Compliance with CMS requirements may require us to divert resources that may affect the results of our operations and financial condition. Any termination or non-renewal of our Medicare Advantage plans would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We may be subject to government audits, regulatory proceedings or investigative actions, which may find that our policies, procedures, practices or contracts are not compliant with, or are in violation of, applicable healthcare regulations.. Federal, Puerto Rico, and Costa Rica government authorities, including but not limited to the Commissioner of Insurance, ASES, CMS, the OIG, the Office of the Civil Rights of HHS, the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Labor, and the OPM, regularly make inquiries and conduct audits concerning our compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations.  In addition, beginning in Medicare contract year 2016, CMS will have the right to require Medicare Advantage plan sponsors such as us to hire an independent auditor, working in accordance with CMS specifications, to validate if the deficiencies that were found during a CMS full or partial program audit have been corrected and provide CMS with a copy of the audit findings.  If, in the future, we were required by CMS to hire an independent auditor, such audit would entail direct costs to us, in addition to potential penalties in the event of negative audit findings.  We may also become the subject of non-routine regulatory or other investigations or proceedings brought by these or other authorities, and our compliance with and interpretation of applicable laws and regulations may be challenged.  In addition, our regulatory compliance may also be challenged by private citizens under the \"whistleblower provisions\" of applicable laws.  The defense of any such challenge could result in substantial cost, diversion of resources, and a possible material adverse effect on our business.. An adverse action could result in one or more of the following:. •  recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts;. Page 47. Table of Contents. •  mandated changes in our business practices;. •  imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key employees;. •  additional reporting requirements and oversight and mandated corrective action or remediation plans;. •  loss or non-renewal of our government contracts or loss of our ability to participate in Medicare or other federal or local governmental payor programs; damage to our reputation;. •  increased difficulty in marketing our products and services;. •  inability to obtain approval for future services or geographic expansions; and. •  loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurance company, preferred provider or managed care organization or other licensed entity or to otherwise provide a service.. Our failure to maintain an effective corporate compliance program may increase our exposure to civil damages and penalties, criminal sanctions and administrative remedies, such as program exclusion, resulting from an adverse review.  Any adverse review, audit or investigation could reduce our revenue and profitability and otherwise adversely affect our operating results.. Effective prevention, detection and control systems are critical to maintain regulatory compliance and prevent fraud and failure of these systems could adversely affect the Company.. Failure to prevent, detect or control systems related to regulatory compliance or the failure of employees to comply with our internal policies, including data systems security or unethical conduct by managers and employees, could adversely affect our reputation and also expose it to litigation and other proceedings, fines and penalties.  Federal and state governments have made investigating and prosecuting health care and other insurance fraud and abuse a priority.  Fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing for unnecessary medical services, improper marketing, and violations of patient privacy rights.  The regulations and contractual requirements applicable to the Company are complex and subject to change.  In addition, ongoing vigorous law enforcement, a highly technical regulatory scheme and the Dodd-Frank legislation and related regulations being adopted that enhance regulators' enforcement powers and whistleblower incentives and protections, mean that its compliance efforts in this area will continue to require significant resources.. In addition, provider or member fraud that is not prevented or detected could impact our medical costs or those of our self-insured customers.  Further, during an economic downturn, our segments, including our Life Insurance and Property and Casualty segments may see increased fraudulent claims volume which may lead to additional costs because of an increase in disputed claims and litigation.. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, or if we fail to address emerging security threats or detect and prevent privacy and security incidents, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. The collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers.  HIPAA regulations also provide access rights and other rights for health plan beneficiaries with respect to their health information.  These regulations include standards for certain electronic transactions, including encounter and claims information, health plan eligibility and payment information.  Health plans are also subject to beneficiary notification and remediation obligations in the event of an authorized use or disclosure of personal health information.  HIPAA also requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements.  Even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we still have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices.. Our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to privacy and security incidents; security attacks and breaches; acts of vandalism or theft; computer viruses; coordinated attacks by activist entities; emerging cybersecurity risks; misplaced or lost data; programming and/or human errors; or other similar events. Emerging and advanced security threats, including coordinated attacks, require additional layers of security which may disrupt or impact efficiency of operations.. Page 48. Table of Contents. Compliance with new privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain our ability to manage our business model. In addition, HHS has expanded its HIPAA audit program to assess compliance efforts not only by covered entities, but also business associates.  Although we are not aware of HHS plans to audit any of our covered entities or business associates, an audit resulting in findings or allegations of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  We are also subject to Puerto Rico Act No. 194 of August 25, 2000, also known as the Patient's Rights and Responsibilities Act, including provisions more stringent than HIPAA.  There is uncertainty regarding many aspects of such state requirements which make compliance with applicable health information laws more difficult.  For these reasons, our total compliance costs may increase in the future.. We are subject, and will likely continue to be subject, to regulatory audits and investigations relating to our compliance with HIPAA and other related privacy requirements. On November 20, 2015, we entered into a resolution agreement with the HHS Office of Civil Rights (\"OCR\"), (the \"Resolution Agreement\") to settle all incidents being investigated by OCR up to the date of execution of the Resolution Agreement.  As part of the Resolution Agreement, the Company agreed to pay $3.5 million, without admitting liability, implement a three year corrective action plan, and comply with other terms and conditions.  The foregoing summary of the terms and conditions of the Settlement Agreement is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Settlement Agreement included as Exhibit 10.24 filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Also, on November 20, 2015, we entered into a settlement agreement with ASES (the \"ASES Settlement Agreement\") in connection with privacy incidents relating to beneficiaries of the government health plan up to the execution of the ASES Settlement Agreement. As part of the ASES Settlement Agreement, the Company did not admit any liability and agreed to pay ASES $1.5 million in full accord and satisfaction and settlement of any and all reported incidents. The foregoing summary of the terms and conditions of the ASES Settlement Agreement is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by the full text of the ASES Settlement Agreement included as Exhibit 10.23 filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Non-compliance or findings of non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business, including mandatory disclosure to the media, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents and material fines, penalties and litigation awards, among other consequences, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. The revised rate calculation system for Medicare Advantage, the payment system for the Medicare Part D and changes in the methodology and payment policies used by CMS to establish rates could reduce our profitability and the benefits we offer our beneficiaries.. Medicare Advantage managed care plans are paid based off a CMS-calculated \"benchmark\" amount, and plans submit competitive bids that reflect the costs they expect to incur in providing the base Medicare benefits.  A Medicare Advantage plan's actual payment rate is based on a complex statutory formula that takes into account a number of factors, including the relationship between the plan's bid and the benchmark.  In addition, under the ACA, Medicare Advantage plan payment rates were subject to transitionally phased in reductions intended to bring Medicare Advantage rates more in line with Medicare fee-for-service rates, which was fully phased in 2017.  Medicare generally will rebate a portion of the amount by which the benchmark amount exceeded the accepted bid for certain plans. For plans achieving star rating of at least 3.5 stars, the portion of the savings retained by the plan is higher.  For plans achieving star ratings of at least 4 stars, the starting benchmark amount from which the savings is computed is also higher (a \"quality bonus\").  If the bid is greater than the benchmark, the plan will be required to charge a premium to enrollees equal to the difference between the bid and the benchmark, which could affect our ability to attract enrollees.  CMS reviews the methodology and assumptions used in bidding with respect to medical and administrative costs, profitability and other factors.  CMS could challenge such methodology or assumptions or seek to cap or limit plan profitability.  CMS also could administratively seek to implement certain methodological changes to the Medicare Advantage rate calculations that could result in functionally lower payment rates, and may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial position, results of operations or cash flow.. Page 49. Table of Contents. We also face the risk of reduced or insufficient government funding and we may need to terminate our Medicare Advantage contracts with respect to unprofitable markets, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  In addition, as a result of the competitive bidding process, our ability to participate in the Medicare Advantage program is affected by the pricing and design of our competitors' bids.  Moreover, we may in the future be required to reduce benefits or charge our members an additional premium in order to maintain our current level of profitability, either of which could make our health plans less attractive to members and adversely affect our membership.. In February 2018, CMS released its draft Advance Notice and Call Letter for Medicare Advantage reimbursement in 2019.  This draft notice contains a number of provisions that will have a significant effect on the operations of Puerto Rico's MA program.  These proposals include provisions that may increase certain payments made to plans in Puerto Rico, but is also silent in key critical issues that if no action is taken could result in lower payments for Puerto Rico Medicare Advantage Organizations (MAO).  The draft call letter does not adequately address problems with the benchmark and payment disparity for Puerto Rico counties.  In addition, the draft letter does not commit to including the zero claims adjustment, embedded in the past two years, creating more uncertainty over actual payment rate changes for 2019.  The call letter will be finalized in early April.  Until then, it is uncertain whether any of CMS's proposals will be implemented or, if implemented, the effect in our Medicare Advantage business.. CMS's risk adjustment payment system and other Medicare Advantage funding pressures make our revenue and profitability difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments to our results of operations.. CMS has implemented a risk adjustment payment system for Medicare Advantage plans to improve the accuracy of payments and establish incentives for such plans to enroll and treat less healthy Medicare beneficiaries.  The risk adjusted premiums we receive are based on claims and encounter data that we submit to CMS within prescribed deadlines.  We develop our estimates for risk-adjusted premiums utilizing historical experience, or other data, and predictive models as sufficient member risk score data becomes available over the course of each CMS plan year. We recognize periodic changes to risk-adjusted premiums as revenue when the amounts are determinable and collection is reasonably assured, which are possible as additional diagnosis code information is reported to CMS, when the ultimate adjustment settlements are received from CMS, or we receive notification of such settlement amounts. CMS adjusts premiums on two separate occasions on a retrospective basis. The first retrospective adjustment for a given plan year generally occurs during the third quarter of that year. This initial settlement represents the update of risk scores for the current plan year based on the severity of claims incurred in the prior plan year. CMS then issues a final retrospective risk adjusted premium settlement for that plan year in the following year.  The data provided to CMS to determine members' risk scores is subject to audit by CMS even after the annual settlements occur, which may result in the refund of premiums to CMS.  The result of these audits could materially reduce premium revenue in the year in which CMS determines a refund is required and could be material to our result of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Page 50. Table of Contents. CMS is making significant changes to the manner in which it determines risk adjustment payments, including introducing a new model for 2019 and continue to shift towards encounter based risk scores (ESD).  As a result of the risk adjustment process and CMS's ability to modify the manner in which it applies such risk adjustments, it is difficult to predict with certainty our future revenue or profitability.  In addition, our own risk scores for any period may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustment to payment from CMS and our Medicare payment revenue.. Finally, we generally rely on providers, including certain network providers who are our employees, to appropriately document all medical data, including the diagnosis codes submitted with claims, as the basis for our risk scores under the program.  Thus, our ability to meet our premium revenue estimates depends largely on the success of third party efforts to collect and properly reflect medical data, including diagnosis codes that must be submitted with claims.  There is no assurance that our providers will be successful in accurately collecting such medical data and diagnosis codes and, to the extent their efforts are not successful, such failure may have a material adverse effect on our premium revenues.. If during the open enrollment season our Medicare Advantage members enroll in another Medicare Advantage plan, they will be automatically disenrolled from our plan, possibly without our immediate knowledge.. Pursuant to the MMA, members enrolled in one insurer's Medicare Advantage program will be automatically disenrolled from that program if they enroll in another insurer's Medicare Advantage program.  If our members enroll in another insurer's Medicare Advantage program we may not discover that such member has been disenrolled from our program until such time as we fail to receive reimbursement from CMS in respect of such member, which may occur sometime after the disenrollment.  As a result, we may discover that a member has disenrolled from our program after we have already provided services to such individual.  Our profitability would be reduced as a result of such failure to receive payment from CMS if we had made related payments to providers and were unable to recoup such payments from them.. Medicare and Medicaid spending by the federal government could be decreased as part of the spending cuts associated with the debt ceiling.. The Sequestration Transparency Act of 2012 (P.L. 112-155) requires the President of the United States to submit to Congress a report on the potential sequestration triggered by the failure of the Joint Selective Committee on Deficit Reduction to propose, and Congress to enact, a plan to reduce the deficit by $1.2 trillion, as required by the Budget Control Act of 2011. Under the sequestration, automatic spending cuts became effective beginning April 1, 2013, and, following passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, these cuts have been extended through at least 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken.  This resulted in cuts of 2% to Medicare funding.  Medicaid programs are not subject to automatic spending cuts. In addition, in January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several categories of healthcare providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years.. Page 51. Table of Contents. We cannot predict whether Congress will take any action to change the automatic spending cuts.  Further, we cannot predict how states will react to any changes that occur at the federal level.. If we are deemed to have violated the insurance company change of control statutes in Puerto Rico, we may suffer adverse consequences.. We are subject to change of control statutes applicable to insurance companies.  These statutes regulate, among other things, the acquisition of control of an insurance company or a holding company of an insurance company.  Under these statutes, no person may make an offer to acquire or to sell the issued and outstanding voting stock of an insurance company, which constitutes 10% or more of the issued and outstanding stock of an insurance company, or of the total stock issued and outstanding of a holding company of an insurance company, or solicit or receive funds in exchange for the issuance of new shares of the holding company's or its insurance subsidiaries' capital stock, without the prior approval of the Commissioner of Insurance.  Our amended and restated articles of incorporation (the articles) prohibit any institutional investor from owning 10% or more of our voting power and any person that is not an institutional investor from owning 5% or more of our voting power.  We cannot, however, assure you that ownership of our securities will remain below these thresholds.  To the extent that a person, including an institutional investor, acquires shares in excess of these limits, our articles provide for the Company to take certain actions, including refusing to give effect to a transfer or instituting proceedings to enjoin or rescind a transfer, in order to avoid a violation of the ownership limitation in the articles.  If the Commissioner of Insurance determines that a change of control has occurred, we could be subject to fines and penalties, and in some instances the Commissioner of Insurance would have the discretion to revoke our operating licenses.. We are also subject to change of control limitations pursuant to our BCBSA license agreements.  The BCBSA ownership limits restrict beneficial ownership of our voting capital stock to less than 10% for an institutional investor and less than 5% for a non-institutional investor, both as defined in our articles.  In addition, no person may beneficially own shares of our common stock or other equity securities, or a combination thereof, representing a 20% or more ownership interest, whether voting or non-voting, in our company.  This provision in our articles cannot be changed without the prior approval of the BCBSA and the vote of holders of at least 75% of our common stock.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital requirements.  Our failure to meet these standards could subject us to regulatory actions.. Puerto Rico insurance laws and the regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of Insurance, among other things, require insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital, thereby restricting the amount of earnings that can be distributed by our insurance subsidiaries to us.  Although we are currently in compliance with these requirements, there can be no assurance that we will continue to comply in the future.  Failure to maintain required levels of capital or to otherwise comply with the reporting requirements of the Commissioner of Insurance could subject our insurance subsidiaries to corrective action, including government supervision or liquidation, or require us to provide financial assistance, either through subordinated loans or capital infusions, to our subsidiaries to ensure they maintain their minimum statutory capital requirements.. We are also subject to minimum capital requirements pursuant to our BCBSA license agreements.  See \"Risks Related to Our Business - The termination or modification of our license agreements to use the BCBS name and mark could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.\". Page 52. Table of Contents. Puerto Rico insurance laws and regulations and provisions of our articles and bylaws could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may make it more difficult to replace members of our board of directors and have the effect of entrenching management.. Puerto Rico insurance laws and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and our articles and bylaws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests.  For instance, they may prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context.  Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. Our license agreements with the BCBSA require that our articles contain certain provisions, including ownership limitations. See \"Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry - If we are deemed to have violated the insurance company change of control statutes in Puerto Rico, we may suffer adverse consequences.\". Our articles and bylaws have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests.  In particular, our articles and bylaws:. •  permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock;. •  divide our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms;. •  limit the ability of shareholders to remove directors;. •  impose restrictions on shareholders' ability to fill vacancies on our board of directors;. •  impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at meetings of shareholders; and. •  impose restrictions on shareholders' ability to amend our articles and bylaws.. See also \"Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry - If we are deemed to have violated the insurance company change of control statutes in Puerto Rico, we may suffer adverse consequences.\". Puerto Rico insurance laws and the regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of Insurance may also delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests.  For instance, the Commissioner of Insurance must review any merger, consolidation or new issue of shares of capital stock of an insurer or its parent company and make a determination as to the fairness of the transaction.  Also, a director of an insurer must meet certain requirements imposed by Puerto Rico insurance laws.. These voting and other restrictions may operate to make it more difficult to replace members of our board of directors and may have the effect of entrenching management regardless of their performance.. Page 53. Table of Contents"
