[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk.  There are risks, many beyond our control, that could cause our financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from management's expectations.  Some of the risks that may affect us are described below.  If any of the following risks, by itself or together with one or more other factors, actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.  These risks are not the only risks that we may face.  Our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could also be affected by additional risks that apply to all companies operating in the United States, as well as other risks that are not currently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.  Further, to the extent that any of the information contained herein constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements.  See \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" on page 48.. Risks Relating to our Business. Developments in the business, economic, and geopolitical environment could negatively impact our business.. Our business can be adversely affected by the general environment  -  economic, corporate, securities market, regulatory, and geopolitical developments all play a role in our lending and investment management activity, interest rates and overall investor engagement, and are outside of our control.  Among other things, deterioration in the credit markets and decreases in securities valuation or in property valuations nationally or in our primary markets could negatively impact our results of operations and capital resources.. We may not be able to adequately measure and limit our credit risk associated with our loan portfolio, which could lead to unexpected losses.. The business of lending is inherently risky, including risks that the principal or interest on any loan will not be repaid timely or at all or that the value of any collateral supporting the loan will be insufficient to cover our outstanding exposure.  These risks may be affected by the strength of the borrower's business sector and local, regional and national market, and economic conditions.  Our risk management practices, such as monitoring the concentration of our loans within specific industries and our credit approval practices, may not adequately reduce credit risk, and our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures may not adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting customers and the quality of the loan portfolio.  Many of our loans are made to middle-market businesses that may be less able to withstand competitive, economic and financial pressures than larger borrowers.  A failure to effectively measure and limit the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that represents management's judgment of probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio.  The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of historical default and loss experience in our portfolio, general economic conditions, diversification and seasoning of the loan portfolio, identified credit problems, delinquency levels and adequacy of collateral.  The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective and requires us to make significant estimates of and assumptions regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes.  Inaccurate management assumptions, deterioration of economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses.  In addition, our regulators, as an integral part of their periodic examination, review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and may direct us to make additions to the allowance based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination.  Further, if actual charge-offs in future periods exceed the amounts allocated to the allowance for loan losses we may need additional provision for loan losses to restore the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses.  If we are required to materially increase our level of allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. A material portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial loans secured by equipment or other business assets, the deterioration in value of which could increase our exposure to future probable losses.. Historically, a material portion of our loans held-for-investment have been comprised of commercial loans to businesses collateralized by general business assets including, among other things, accounts receivable, inventory and equipment.  These commercial and industrial loans are typically larger in amount than loans to individuals and, therefore, have the potential for larger losses on a single loan basis.  Historically, losses in our commercial and industrial credits have been higher than losses in other segments of our loan portfolio.  Significant adverse changes in various industries could cause rapid declines in values and collectability associated with those business. 23. Table of Contents. assets resulting in inadequate collateral coverage that may expose us to future losses.  An increase in specific reserves and charge-offs related to our commercial and industrial loan portfolio could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.  As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding commercial and industrial loans of $667.7 million, or 16.0% of our loans held-for-investment.. Because many of our customers are commercial enterprises, they may be adversely affected by any decline in general economic conditions in the United States which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our business.. Many of our customers are commercial enterprises whose business and financial condition are sensitive to changes in the general economy of the U.S.  Our businesses and operations are, in turn, sensitive to these same general economic conditions.  If the U.S. experiences a deterioration of economic conditions, or other significant volatility in economic conditions, our growth and profitability could be constrained.  In addition, economic conditions in foreign countries, including uncertainty over the stability of the euro currency and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and concerns regarding potential hostilities with North Korea, could affect the stability of global financial markets, which could negatively affect U.S. economic conditions.  Weak economic conditions are characterized by deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, lack of liquidity and depressed prices in the secondary market for loans, increased delinquencies on loans, real estate price declines, and lower commercial activity.  All of these factors are detrimental to the business and/or financial position of our customers as well as the value of the collateral supporting our loans and could adversely impact demand for our credit products as well as our credit quality.  Our business is also sensitive to monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies.  Changes in any of these policies are influenced by macroeconomic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control and difficult to predict.  Adverse economic conditions and government policy responses to such conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Our non-owner-occupied commercial real estate loan portfolio exposes us to credit risks that may be greater than the risks related to other types of loans.. Our loan portfolio includes non-owner-occupied commercial real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties, as well as real estate construction and development loans.  As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding loans secured by non-owner-occupied commercial properties of $1.11 billion, or 26.4%, of our loans held-for-investment.  These loans typically involve repayment dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service.  The availability of such income for repayment may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions.  These loans expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by other types of collateral because the collateral securing these loans are typically more difficult to liquidate.  Additionally, non-owner-occupied commercial real estate loans generally involve relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers.  Unexpected deterioration in the credit quality of our non-owner-occupied commercial real estate loan portfolio could require us to increase our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Our private banking business could be negatively impacted by a prolonged downturn in the securities markets.. Marketable-securities-backed private banking loans represent a material portion of our business and are the fastest growing part of our loan portfolio.  We expect to continue to increase the percentage of our loan portfolio represented by marketable-securities-backed private banking loans in the future.  A sharp or prolonged decline in the value of the collateral that secures these loans could materially adversely affect the growth prospects or loan performance in this segment of our loan portfolio and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our business.  As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding marketable-securities-backed private banking loans of $2.14 billion, or 51.2% of our loans held-for-investment.. A prolonged downturn in the real estate market, especially in our primary markets, could result in losses and adversely affect our profitability.. A material portion of our loans are secured by real estate as a primary component of collateral.  The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended.  A general decline in real estate values, particularly in our primary market areas, could impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon any foreclosure, which would likely require us to increase our provision for loan losses.  In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, the amount we receive upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover the outstanding principal and interest on the loan.  If we are required to re-value the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values or to increase our allowance for loan losses, our profitability could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. 24. Table of Contents. Our commercial banking business is concentrated in, and largely dependent upon, the continued growth and welfare of the general geographic markets in which we operate.. Our commercial banking operations are concentrated in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, and Ohio.  As a result, our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows are affected by changes in the economic conditions of any of those states or the regions of which they are a part.  Our success depends to a significant extent upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets.  Among other things, shale gas exploration and production is a significant force in driving the economies of Western Pennsylvania and Northeastern Ohio, two of our significant commercial banking markets, and low energy prices have adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact shale gas exploration and production, negatively impacting those economies.  Although we do not make loans to companies directly engaged in oil and gas exploration and production, adverse conditions that affect these market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans, affect the value of collateral underlying loans, impact our ability to attract deposits and generally affect our financial conditions and results of operations.  Because of our geographic concentration, we may be less able than other regional or national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets.. A material portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of participation transaction interests, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to monitor and/or manage the lending relationships and lead to an increased risk of loss.. We achieved a significant portion of our loan growth and diversity in our loan portfolio in our initial years of operation by participating in loans originated by other institutions, including shared national credits (\"SNCs\") in which other lenders serve as the agent bank.  This SNC structure may reduce our control over the monitoring and management of these relationships, particularly participations with large bank groups, which could lead to increased risk of loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.  As a result, we have reduced this component of our loan portfolio and we intend to continue to further diversify our portfolio through growth in loans from our private banking channel and direct commercial loans.  However, there can be no guaranty we will be successful in our efforts to further diversify the portfolio.  As of December 31, 2017, $314.4 million, or 7.5% of our loans held-for-investment, consisted of SNC loans in which we were not the lead bank.  Effective January 1, 2018, the bank regulatory agencies revised the SNC definition to increase the loan size to $100 million or more and that are still shared by three or more financial institutions.  Under this new definition we expect our SNC portfolio to be reduced by approximately one-third.. Our loan portfolio contains large loans, and deterioration in the financial condition of the borrowers could have a material adverse impact on our asset quality and profitability.. If only a few of our largest borrowers become unable to repay their loan obligations as a result of economic or market conditions or personal circumstances, our non-performing loans and our provision for loan losses could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Our lending limit may restrict our growth and prevent us from effectively implementing our business strategy.. We are limited in the amount we can loan to a single borrower by the amount of our capital.  Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15.0% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower.  We have established a preferred lending limit that is significantly lower than our legal lending limit.  Based upon our current capital levels, the amount we may lend is significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our lending limit from doing business with us.  We accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy may not always be available.  If we are unable to compete effectively for loans from our target customers, we may not be able to effectively implement our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. We must maintain and follow high loan underwriting standards to grow safely.. Our ability to grow our assets safely depends on maintaining disciplined and prudent underwriting standards and ensuring that our relationship managers and lending personnel follow those standards.  The weakening of these standards for any reason, such as to seek higher yielding loans, or a lack of discipline or diligence by our employees in underwriting and monitoring loans, may result in loan defaults, foreclosures and additional charge-offs and may necessitate that we significantly increase our allowance for loan losses, any of which could adversely affect our net income.  Relatedly, as we attempt to uphold those standards in an increasingly competitive lending environment, we may experience increased refinancing of existing loans and reduced new loan growth.  As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition or future prospects could be adversely affected.. 25. Table of Contents. We rely heavily on our executive management team and other key employees, and we could be adversely affected by the unexpected loss of their services.. Our success depends in large part on the performance of our key personnel, as well as on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified senior and middle management and other skilled employees.  Competition for employees is intense, and the process of locating key personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to execute our business plan may be lengthy.  We currently do not have any employment or non-compete agreements with any of our executive officers or key employees other than certain non-solicitation and restrictive agreements that we received from certain key employees in connection with our investment management business.  We may not be successful in retaining our key employees, and the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our primary markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.  If the services of any of our key personnel should become unavailable for any reason, we may not be able to identify and hire qualified persons on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Our business has grown rapidly, and we may not be able to maintain our historical rate of growth, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully implement our business strategy.. Our business has grown rapidly.  Although rapid business growth can be a favorable business condition, financial institutions that grow rapidly can experience significant difficulties as a result of rapid growth.  We seek to grow safely and consistently.  This requires us to manage several different elements simultaneously.  Successful growth in our banking business requires that we follow adequate loan underwriting standards, balance loan and deposit growth without increasing interest rate risk or compressing our net interest margin, maintain adequate capital at all times, produce investment performance results competitive with our peers and benchmarks, further diversify our revenue sources, meet the expectations of our clients, and hire and retain qualified employees.  If we do not manage our growth successfully, then our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected.. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or continue to grow our business at all.  Because of factors such as the uncertainty in the general economy and the recent government intervention in the credit markets, it may be difficult for us to repeat our historic earnings growth as we continue to expand.  Failure to grow or failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy.. Our utilization of brokered deposits could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.. Since our inception, we have utilized both brokered and non-brokered deposits as a source of funds to support our growing loan demand and other liquidity needs.  As a bank regulatory supervisory matter, reliance upon brokered deposits as a significant source of funding is discouraged.  Brokered deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits and, in the future, those depositors may not renew their deposits when they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to keep those deposits or may have to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources.  Additionally, if TriState Capital Bank ceases to be categorized as \"well capitalized\" for bank regulatory purposes, it will not be able to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits without a waiver from the FDIC.  Our inability to maintain or replace these brokered deposits as they mature could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.  Further, paying higher interest rates to maintain or replace these deposits could adversely affect our net interest margin and our results of operations or financial condition.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and meet our obligations as they become due.. Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our liquidity and ability to obtain funding for loan originations, working capital and other general purposes.  Our preferred source of funds for our banking business consists of customer deposits; however, we rely on other sources such as brokered deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank (\"FHLB\") advances.  In addition to our competition with other banks for deposits, such account and deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments as providing a better risk/return trade off.  If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we may increase our utilization of brokered deposits, FHLB advances and other wholesale funding sources necessary to fund desired growth levels.. We rely on our ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of our loans and investment securities and other sources of liquidity, respectively, to ensure that we have adequate liquidity to fund our banking operations.  Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to fund new loan balances, invest in securities, meet our expenses or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. 26. Table of Contents. Any future reductions in our credit ratings may increase our funding costs or impair our ability to effectively compete for business and clients.. We have used and may in the future use debt as a funding source.  One or more rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally.  In general, rating agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix and level and quality of earnings, and we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings.  Our ratings remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that any rating agency will take action to downgrade us in the future.. Any future decrease in our credit ratings by one or more rating agencies could impact our access to the capital markets or short-term funding or increase our financing costs, and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity.  Our clients and counterparties may also be sensitive to the risks posed by a ratings downgrade and may terminate their relationships with us, may be less likely to engage in transactions with us, or may only engage in transactions with us at a substantially higher cost.  We cannot predict whether client relationships or opportunities for future relationships could be adversely affected by clients who choose to do business with a higher-rated institution.  The inability to retain clients or to effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Additionally, rating agencies have themselves been subject to scrutiny arising from the financial crisis such that the rating agencies may make or may be required to make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices.  Such changes may, among other things, adversely affect the ratings of our securities or other securities in which we have an economic interest.. We are subject to interest rate risk that could negatively impact the profitability of our banking business.. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends to a significant extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between our interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.  One of the ways in which we currently attempt to manage interest rate risk is by maintaining an asset sensitive balance sheet combined with some level of longer-term deposits, but conditions could prevent us from successfully implementing this strategy in the future.. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve.  Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and the average duration of our assets.  If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore net income, could be adversely affected.. Our loans are predominantly variable rate loans, with the majority being based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\").  A decline in interest rates could cause the spread between our loan yields and our deposit rates paid to compress our net interest margin and our net income could be adversely affected.  Further, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. In addition, an increase in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations.  These circumstances could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and charge-offs, but also necessitate increases to our allowance for loan losses, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects.. The phasing out and ultimate replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate and changes in the manner of calculating other reference rates may adversely impact the value of loans and other financial instruments we hold that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates in ways that are difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations.. Because of concerns raised about the accuracy of the calculation of LIBOR, it is contemplated that LIBOR will be replaced with an alternative reference rate by the end of 2021 that will be calculated in a different manner than LIBOR.  Similar changes have occurred or may occur with respect to other reference rates.  It is not currently possible to determine whether, or to what extent, any such changes would impact the value of any loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit we hold or that are due to us, that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates, or whether, or to what extent, such changes would impact our financial condition or results of operations.. 27. Table of Contents. Our investment management business may be negatively impacted by competition, changes in economic and market conditions, changes in interest rates and investment performance.. Our investment management business may be negatively impacted by competition, changes in economic and market conditions, changes in interest rates and investment performance.  A material portion of our earnings is derived from Chartwell, our investment management business.  The investment management business is intensely competitive.  In the markets where we compete, there are over 1,000 firms which we consider to be primary competitors.  In addition to competition from other institutional investment management firms, Chartwell, along with the active-management industry in general, compete with passive index funds, ETFs and investment alternatives such as hedge funds.  Our ability to successfully attract and retain investment management clients will depend on, among other things, our ability to compete with our competitors' investment products, level of investment performance, fees, client services, marketing and distribution capabilities.  Our ability to retain investment management clients may be impaired by the fact that investment management contracts are typically terminable in nature.  Most of our clients may withdraw funds from under our management at their discretion at any time for any reason, including the performance of the investment advice, a change in the client's investment strategy or other factors.  If we cannot effectively compete to attract and retain customers, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected.. Additionally, it is possible our management fees could be reduced for a variety of reasons, including among other things, pressure on them resulting from competition in the investment management sector or regulatory changes, and that we may from time to time reduce or waive investment management fees, or limit total expenses, on certain products or services offered as part of the our investment management business for particular time periods to manage fund expenses, or for other reasons, and to help retain or increase managed assets.  If our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income from our investment management business would be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Our investment management business may be negatively impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions.  The financial markets and businesses operating in the securities industry are highly volatile (meaning that performance results can vary greatly within short periods of time) and are directly affected by, among other factors, domestic and foreign economic conditions and general trends in business and finance, all of which are beyond our control.  We cannot guaranty that broad market performance will be favorable in the future.  Declines in the financial markets or a lack of sustained growth may result in declines in the performance of the investment management business and the level of assets under management.  Because the revenues of our investment management business are, to a large extent, fees based on assets under management, such declines could have a material adverse effect on that business.. Further, changes in interest rates could also adversely affect our investment management business, which will comprise a material part of our earnings, by decreasing the net asset values of our assets under management and potentially causing investors to shift assets in ways that negatively impact the fees generated by that business.. The termination or failure to renew fund agreements could have adverse effects on our investment management business.. A material portion of our earnings is derived from investment management agreements and sub-advisor investment management agreements related to multiple sponsored funds.  Investment management agreements are, as required by law, terminable upon 60 days' notice.  In addition, investment management agreements of this nature must be approved and renewed annually by each fund's board of directors or trustees, including independent members of the board, or its shareholders, as required by law.  Failure to renew, changes resulting in lower fees, or termination of a significant number of these agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our investment management business may be negatively impacted by our investment performance.. Success in the investment management business is largely dependent on investment performance relative to market conditions and the performance of competing products.  Good performance generally assists retention and growth of managed assets, resulting in additional revenues.  Conversely, poor performance tends to result in decreased sales and increased redemptions with corresponding decreases in revenues to the investment management business.  It also could adversely impact any performance-based fees for which we are eligible.  Poor performance could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or business prospects.  A significant and prolonged decline in the assets under management of our investment management business could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, to a lesser extent, net income due to related reductions to distribution expenses associated with these funds.. The failure or negative performance of products offered by other investment management companies may adversely impact our investment management business regardless of that business' performance.. Many competitors offer similar products to those offered by Chartwell and the failure or negative performance of competitors' products could lead to a loss of confidence in similar Chartwell products, regardless of the performance of such products.  Any loss of confidence in a product type could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products, which may cause the assets under management, revenue and earnings of our investment management business to decline.. 28. Table of Contents. We face significant competitive pressures that could impair our growth, decrease our profitability or reduce our market share.. We operate in the highly competitive financial services industry and face significant competition for customers from bank and non-bank competitors, particularly regional and nationwide institutions, in originating loans, attracting deposits, providing financial management products and services, and providing other financial services.  Our competitors are generally larger and may have significantly more resources, greater name recognition, and more extensive and established branch networks or geographic footprints than we do.  Because of their scale, many of these competitors can be more aggressive than we can on loan, deposit and financial services pricing.  In addition, many of our non-bank and non-institutional financial management competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures.  We expect competition to continue to intensify due to financial institution consolidation; legislative, regulatory and technological changes; and the emergence of alternative banking sources and investment management products and services.  Additionally, technology has lowered barriers to entry.. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, including, among other things:. • our ability to build and maintain long-term customer relationships while ensuring high ethical standards and safe and sound business practices;. • the scope, relevance, performance and pricing of products and services that we offer;. • customer satisfaction with our products and services;. • industry and general economic trends; and. • our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology.. Increased competition could require us to increase the rates we pay on deposits or lower the rates we offer on loans or fees we charge on banking or investment management products and services, which could reduce our profitability.  Our failure to compete effectively in our primary markets could cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business.. Our business plan emphasizes building and maintaining strong relationships with our clients.  We have benefited from strong relationships with and among our customers, and also from our relationships with financial intermediaries.  As a result, our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business.. Our growth over the past several years has depended on attracting new customers from competing financial institutions and increasing our market share, primarily by the involvement in our primary markets and word-of-mouth advertising, rather than on growth in the market for financial services in our primary markets.  As such, we strive to enhance our reputation by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities and markets that we serve and delivering superior service to our customers.  If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees or otherwise, our existing relationships may be damaged.  We could lose some of our existing customers, including groups of large customers who have relationships with each other, and we may not be successful in attracting new customers.  Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Deterioration in the fiscal position of the U.S. federal government and downgrades in U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities could adversely affect us and our banking operations.. The business environment in the markets in which we operate and in the United States as a whole have a significant effect on our financial performance, the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay the principal of outstanding loans, the value of collateral securing those loans, and demand for loans and other products and services we offer and whose success we rely on to drive our future growth.  Some elements of the business environment that affect our financial performance include short-term and long-term interest rates, the prevailing yield curve, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in the debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the domestic economy and the local economies in the markets in which we operate.  Unfavorable market conditions can result in a deterioration of the credit quality of borrowers, an increase in the number of loan delinquencies, defaults and charge-offs, additional provisions for loan losses, adverse asset values and a reduction in assets under management.  Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability of or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation, changes in interest rates, high unemployment, natural disasters, state or local government. 29. Table of Contents. insolvency, or a combination of these or other factors.  Any unfavorable change in the general business environment in which we operate, in the United States as a whole or abroad could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future prospects.. During the past decade there has at times been concern about the fiscal position of the U.S. federal government, as illustrated by a 2011 downgrade by certain rating agencies of the credit rating of the government.  In addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, any future downgrade of the credit rating of the United States, failures to raise the U.S. statutory debt limit, or deterioration in the fiscal outlook of the U.S. federal government, could, among other things, materially adversely affect the market value of the U.S. and other government and governmental agency securities that we may hold, the availability of those securities as collateral for borrowing, and our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms.  It also could increase interest rates and disrupt payment systems, money markets, and long-term or short-term fixed income markets, adversely affecting the cost and availability of funding, which could negatively affect our profitability.  The adverse consequences of any downgrade could also extend to those to whom we extend credit and could adversely affect their ability to repay their loans.  In addition, any resulting decline in the financial markets could affect the value of marketable securities that serve as collateral for our loans, which would, in turn, adversely affect our credit quality and could impede the growth that we expect to achieve within this segment of our loan portfolio.  Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to factors outside of our control.. We hold an investment securities portfolio.  Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities.  These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect to the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the capital markets.  Any of these factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized or unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects.  The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary often requires complex, subjective judgments about whether there has been a significant deterioration in the financial condition of the issuer, whether management has the intent or ability to hold a security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value, the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security, and other relevant factors.. Our financial results depend on management's selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates.. Our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP and with general practices within the financial services industry.  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of certain assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amount of related revenues and expenses.  Certain accounting policies inherently are based to a greater extent on estimates, assumptions and judgments of management and, as such, have a greater possibility of producing results that could be materially different than originally reported.  They require management to make subjective or complex judgments, estimates or assumptions, and changes in those estimates or assumptions could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.  These critical accounting policies include:  the allowance for loan losses, accounting for investment securities, evaluation of goodwill and other intangible assets, accounting for income taxes and the determination of fair value for financial instruments.  Due to the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, if circumstances differ substantially from the assumptions used in determining the policies, we may be required to adjust them, which could lead for example to loan losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided, an increase in our accrued tax liability, or we may incur charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. By engaging in derivative transactions, we are exposed to additional credit and market risk in our banking business.. We use interest rate swaps to help manage our interest rate risk in our banking business from recorded financial assets and liabilities when they can be demonstrated to effectively hedge a designated asset or liability and the asset or liability exposes us to interest rate risk or risks inherent in customer related derivatives.  We use other derivative financial instruments to help manage other economic risks, such as liquidity and credit risk, including exposures that arise from business activities that result in the receipt or payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the value of which are determined by interest rates.  Our derivative financial instruments are used to manage differences in the amount, timing, and duration of our known or expected cash receipts principally related to certain of our fixed-rate loan assets or certain of our variable-rate borrowings.  We also have derivatives that result from a service we provide to certain qualifying customers approved through our credit process, and therefore, are not used to manage interest rate risk in our assets or liabilities.  Hedging interest rate risk is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and routine monitoring, and is not a perfect science.  As a result of interest rate fluctuations, hedged assets and liabilities will appreciate or depreciate in market value.  The effect of this unrealized appreciation or depreciation will generally be offset by income or loss on the derivative instruments that are linked to the hedged assets and liabilities.  By engaging in derivative transactions, we are exposed to credit and market risk.  If the counterparty fails to perform, credit risk exists to the extent of the fair value gain in the derivative.  Market risk exists to the extent that interest rates change in ways that are significantly different from what we expected when we entered into the derivative transaction.  The existence of credit and. 30. Table of Contents. market risk associated with our derivative instruments could adversely affect our net interest income and, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. We may be adversely affected by a decrease in the soundness of other financial institutions.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions.  Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships.  We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and through transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including broker/dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other financial intermediaries.  In addition, we participate in loans originated by other financial institutions (including shared national credits) in which other lenders serve as the lead bank.  Further, our private banking channel relies on relationships with a number of other financial institutions for referrals.  As a result, declines in the financial condition of, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, financial service companies or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market-wide liquidity, asset quality or other problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions.  These problems, losses or defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. We rely on third parties to provide key components of our business infrastructure, and a failure of these parties to perform for any reason could disrupt our operations.. Third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as loan and account servicing, data processing, internet connections, network access, core application processing, statement production and account analysis.  Our business depends on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers.  The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations.  Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions.  Replacing vendors or addressing other issues with our third-party service providers could entail significant delay and expense.  If we are unable to efficiently replace ineffective service providers, or if we experience a significant, sustained or repeated, system failure or service denial, it could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business or financial damages from customer businesses, and subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. We utilize the information systems of third parties to monitor the value of and control marketable securities that collateralize our loans, and a failure of those systems or third parties could adversely affect our ability to assess and manage the risk in our loan portfolio.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by marketable securities that are held by third-party custodians or other financial services or wealth management firms.  We utilize the systems of these third parties to provide information to us so that we can quickly and accurately monitor changes in the value of the securities that serve as collateral.  We also rely on these parties to provide control over marketable securities for purposes of perfecting our security interests and retaining the collateral in the applicable accounts.  While we have been careful in selecting the third-parties with which we do business, we do not control their actions, their systems or the information that they provide to us.  Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their failure to provide services or information to us for any reason, or their performing services poorly or providing us with incorrect information, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or could adversely affect our ability to manage, appropriately assess and react to risk in our loan portfolio, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. We could be subject to losses, regulatory action or reputational harm due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, our borrowers, our clients, our employees and vendors.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements, property appraisals, title information, employment and income documentation, account information and other financial information.  We may also rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of such information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors.  Any such misrepresentation or incorrect or incomplete information may not be detected prior to funding a loan or during our ongoing monitoring of outstanding loans.  In addition, one or more of our employees or vendors could cause a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our loan documentation, operations or systems.  Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. 31. Table of Contents. Our growth and expansion strategy may involve strategic investments or acquisitions, and we may not be able to overcome risks associated with such transactions.. Although we plan to continue to grow our business organically, we may seek opportunities to invest in or acquire investment management businesses or other businesses that we believe would complement our existing business model.  Any potential future investment or acquisition activities could be material to our business and involve a number of risks, including the following:. • incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential investments or acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in our attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;. • the limited experience of our management team in working together on certain acquisitions and related integration activities  that could be undertaken;. • the time, expense and difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel and standards, procedures and policies of the combined businesses;. • an inability to realize expected synergies or returns on investment;. • potential disruption of our ongoing banking business; and. • a loss of key employees or key customers following an investment or acquisition.. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with pending or potential investments or acquisitions.  Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and enhance shareholder value, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.. From time to time, we may develop, grow and/or acquire new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business.  There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed.  In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services we may invest significant time and resources.  Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible.  External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service.  Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls.  Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  All service offerings, including current offerings and those which may be provided in the future may become more risky due to changes in economic, competitive and market conditions beyond our control.. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.. In connection with our acquisitions we have generally recognized intangible assets including customer relationship intangible assets and goodwill in our consolidated statement of financial condition.  We may not realize the value of these assets.  Management performs an annual review of the carrying values of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and periodic reviews of the carrying values of all other intangible assets to determine whether events and circumstances indicate that an impairment in value may have occurred.  A variety of factors could cause the carrying value of an asset to become impaired.  Should a review indicate impairment, a write-down of the carrying value of the asset would occur, resulting in a non-cash charge which would adversely affect our results of operations for the period.. Unauthorized access, cyber-crime and other threats to data security may require significant resources, harm our reputation, and adversely affect our business.. We necessarily collect, use and hold personal and financial information concerning individuals and businesses with which we have a relationship.  In addition, we provide our clients with the ability to bank remotely, including online over the Internet.  The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of remote banking.  Threats to data security, including unauthorized access and cyber-attacks, rapidly emerge and change, exposing us to additional costs for protection or remediation and competing time constraints to secure our data in accordance with customer expectations, statutory and regulatory privacy, and other requirements.  It is difficult or impossible to defend against every risk being posed by changing technologies, criminals', terrorists' or. 32. Table of Contents. foreign governments or their agents' intent on committing cyber-crime and who are constantly developing new threats that despite our best efforts could result in a data breach. For example, the use of schemes such as \"phishing\" to gain access to non-public personal information, often from customer themselves or ransomware attacks that seek to deny access to data and possibly shut down systems.  In a ransomware attack, system data is encrypted or access is otherwise denied, accompanied by a demand for ransom to restore access to the data. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our Internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications.. We could also experience a breach due to intentional or negligent conduct on the part of employees or other internal sources (for example, the inadvertent release of confidential or non-public personal information), software bugs or other technical malfunctions, or other causes.  As a result of any of these threats, our customer accounts and the personal and financial information of our customers may become vulnerable to account takeover schemes, identity theft or cyber-fraud.  In addition, our customers use their own devices, such as computer and tablets, to do business with us and may provide their information (including passwords) to a third party in connection with obtaining services from the third party.  Our ability to assure safety and security is limited in these instances. Our systems and those of our third-party vendors may also become vulnerable to damage or disruption due to circumstances beyond our or their control, such as from catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, network failures, and viruses and malware.. A breach of our security or the security of our third party vendors that results in unauthorized access to our data, including personal and financial information of our customers, could expose us to a disruption or challenges relating to our daily operations as well as to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, significant increases in compliance costs and regulatory scrutiny, and reputational damage.  Maintaining our security measures to seek to protect against the latest types of threats may also create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones.  In addition, our investment management business could be harmed by cyber incidents affecting issuers in which its customers' assets are invested and our private banking business could be harmed by such incidents affecting the issuers of marketable securities that secure its loans.  Any such breaches of security or cyber incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects.. Beyond breaches of our security or the security of our third party vendors, as a result of financial entities and technology systems becoming more interdependent and complex, a cyber incident, information breach or loss, or technology failure that compromises the systems or data of one or more financial entities could have a material impact on counterparties or other market participants, including us.  For example, security breaches such as the Equifax incident made public in September 2017 may result in our customers requesting to freeze their credit accounts, which may impact the speed at which we can open or our ability to open new accounts or generate new loans.  We have taken measures to implement backup systems and other safeguards to support our operations, but our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant disruptions to us or to third parties with whom we interact.  We also may incur costs as a result of data or security breaches of third parties with whom we do not have a significant direct relationship.  For example, various retailers and companies processing payments on their behalf have reported that they were victims of cyberattacks in which large amounts of their customers' data, including debit and credit card information, was obtained.  In these situations we may incur costs to replace compromised cards and address fraudulent transaction activity affecting our customers.. We are subject to laws regarding the privacy, information security and protection of personal information and any violation of these laws or another incident involving personal, confidential or proprietary information of individuals could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals (including customers, employees, suppliers and other third parties).  For example, our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which, among other things: (i) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share nonpublic personal information about our customers with non-affiliated third parties; (ii) requires that we provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and afford customers the right to \"opt out\" of any information sharing by us with non-affiliated third parties (with certain exceptions); and (iii) requires that we develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing appropriate safeguards based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches.  Various state and federal banking regulators and states have also enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach.  Ensuring that our collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information comply with all applicable laws and regulations can increase our costs.  Furthermore, we may not be able to ensure that all of our clients, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information that they exchange with us, particularly where such information is transmitted by electronic means.  If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or others were to be mishandled or misused (in situations where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties), we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory sanctions under personal information laws and regulations.  Concerns regarding the effectiveness of our measures to safeguard personal information, or even the perception that such measures are inadequate, could cause us to lose customers or potential customers for our products and services and thereby reduce our revenues.  Accordingly, any failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject us. 33. Table of Contents. to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices or in significant liabilities, fines or penalties, and could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. We continually encounter technological change.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs.  Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations.  Although we are committed to keeping pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology, our competitors may, through the use of new technologies that we have not implemented, be able to offer additional or superior products to those that we will be able to provide, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage.  We also may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers or replace technologies that are obsolete or out of date with new technologies.  In addition, the implementation of technological changes and upgrades to maintain current systems and integrate new ones may cause service interruptions, transaction processing errors and system conversion delays, may cause us to fail to comply with applicable laws, and may cause us to incur additional expenses, which may be substantial.  Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry and avoid interruptions, errors and delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Problems with systems and technologies of third party vendors.. We utilize software and related technologies throughout our business including proprietary systems and those provided by outside service providers.  Our service providers and customers, and third parties, on whom such service providers and customers rely, also utilize software and related technologies in their businesses.  Unanticipated issues could occur and it is not possible to predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from our failure or the failure of a third party to address computer system or software problems.  Data or model imprecision, software or other technology malfunctions, programming inaccuracies and similar or other circumstances or events may impair the performance of systems and technology.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that potential system interruptions, other technology-related issues or the cost necessary to rectify the problems would not have a material adverse effect on our business including, but not limited to, business prospects, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects.. We may take filing positions or follow tax strategies that may be subject to challenge.. The amount of income taxes that we are required to pay on our earnings is based on federal and state legislation and regulations.  We provide for current and deferred taxes in our financial statements based on our results of operations, business activity, legal structure and interpretation of tax statutes.  We may take filing positions or follow tax strategies that are subject to audit and may be subject to challenge.  Our net income may be reduced if a federal, state or local authority assessed charges for taxes that have not been provided for in our consolidated financial statements.  Taxing authorities could change applicable tax laws, challenge filing positions or assess taxes and interest charges.  If taxing authorities take any of these actions, our business, results of operations, financial condition, could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.. The markets in which we operate are susceptible to storms and other natural disasters and adverse weather which could result in a disruption of our operations and increases in loan losses.. A significant portion of our business is generated from markets that have been, and may continue to be, damaged by major storms and other natural disasters and adverse weather.  Natural disasters can disrupt our operations, cause widespread property damage, and severely depress the local economies in which we operate.  If the economies in our primary markets experience an overall decline as a result of a natural disaster, adverse weather, or other disaster, demand for loans and our other products and services could be reduced.  In addition, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses on loan portfolios may increase substantially, as uninsured property losses or sustained job interruption or loss may materially impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans.  Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures the loans could be materially and adversely affected by a disaster.  A disaster could, therefore, result in decreased revenue and loan losses that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Our operations and clients are concentrated in large metropolitan areas in the United States, which could be the target of terrorist attacks.. A significant portion of our operations and our clients, as well as the properties securing our loans outstanding are located in large metropolitan areas in the United States.  These areas have been and may continue to be the target of terrorist attacks.  A successful, major terrorist attack in one of our primary markets could severely disrupt our operations and the ability of our clients to do business with us,. 34. Table of Contents. and cause losses to loans secured by properties in these areas.  Such an attack could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities.. In the course of our business, we may purchase real estate, or we may foreclose on and take title to real estate.  As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties.  We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property.  The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial.  In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property.  Any significant environmental liabilities could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Our risk management measures may not be successful.. The management of risk is an integral part of all our activities.  Managing risk effectively is fundamental to the delivery of our strategic priorities.  While we are subject to a number of legal and regulatory actions and investigations, our risk management framework has been designed to provide robust controls and ongoing monitoring of our principal risks.  Risks have the potential to affect the results of our operations or financial condition.  Specifically, risk equates to the adverse effect on profitability or financial condition arising from different sources of uncertainty including retail and wholesale credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk including legal, financial crime compliance, regulatory compliance, accounting, tax, fiduciary, information security, security fraud, people, systems, political contingency, projects, and operations risks, liquidity and funding risk, reputational risk, strategic risk, model risk, sustainability risk, and pension obligation risk.  To manage risk, we employ a risk management framework at all levels and across all risk types.  The framework fosters the continuous monitoring of the risk environment and an integrated evaluation of risks and their interactions.  It also strives to ensure that we have a robust and consistent approach to risk management across all of our activities.  While our risk management framework employs a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, such techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every unfavorable event or the specifics and timing of every outcome.  Failure to manage risks appropriately could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Relating to Regulations. We operate in a highly regulated environment, which could have a material and adverse impact on our operations and activities, financial condition, results of operations, growth plans and future prospects.. Banking is highly regulated under federal and state law.  We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that governs almost all aspects of our operations.  As a registered bank holding company, we are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve.  As a commercial bank chartered under the laws of Pennsylvania, TriState Capital Bank is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities and the FDIC.  Our investment management business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States.  Chartwell and Chartwell TSC are subject to Federal securities laws, principally the Securities Act of 1933, the Investment Company Act, the Advisers Act, state laws regarding securities fraud and regulations promulgated by various regulatory authorities, including the SEC, FINRA, applicable state laws and stock exchanges.  Our investment management business also may be subject to regulation by the CFTC and NFA.  The investment management business also is affected by the regulations governing banks and other financial institutions.. The primary goals of the bank regulatory scheme are to maintain a safe and sound banking system and to facilitate the conduct of sound monetary policy.  This system is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC's Deposit Insurance Fund and bank depositors, rather than our shareholders and creditors.  The banking agencies have broad enforcement power over bank holding companies and banks, including the authority, among other things, to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, require affirmative action to correct any violation or practice, issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced, direct increases in capital, direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets, limit dividends and distributions, restrict growth, assess civil monetary penalties, remove officers and directors and, with respect to banks, terminate our charter, terminate our deposit insurance or place the Bank into conservatorship or receivership.  In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations or unsafe or unsound practices.. In addition, to the safety and soundness focus, though, there are significant banking regulations relating to other aspects of our business, including borrower protection and community development.  With respect to our community development obligations under the CRA, we have an approved CRA strategic plan for the years 2015 through 2017.  In January 2018, the FDIC approved our updated strategic plan to cover the years 2018 through 2020.  While we currently believe we will succeed in obtaining approval for our strategic plan commencing in 2021, we cannot guaranty that we will obtain such an approval, in which case we would be subject to the CRA for. 35. Table of Contents. traditional large banks, which could have material adverse effects on our business, financial of operation, financial condition and future prospects.  For additional information, see \"Supervision and Regulation-Community Reinvestment Act.\". The securities industry, including the investment management segment of it, has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, FINRA and state attorneys general.  Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years.  We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations.. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including, but not limited to, the authority to fine us and to grant, cancel, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on the right to carry on particular businesses.  We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. governmental regulatory authorities, FINRA or other self-regulatory organizations that supervise the banks and financial markets.. Compliance with the myriad laws and regulations applicable to our organization can be difficult and costly.  In addition, these laws, regulations and policies are subject to continual review by governmental authorities, and changes to these laws, regulations and policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of these laws, regulations and policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and often impose additional compliance costs.  Further, any new laws, rules and regulations, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, could make compliance more difficult or expensive.  All of these laws and regulations, and the supervisory framework applicable to our industry, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and activities, financial condition, results of operations, growth plans and future prospects.  In addition, substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have adverse financial effects on us or cause reputational harm to us, which could harm our business prospects.. The Dodd-Frank Act comprehensively reformed the regulation of financial institutions, products and services.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress.  While a significant number of regulations have already been promulgated to implement the Dodd-Frank Act, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for lengthy periods, which could have a material adverse effect on the financial services industry, generally and our company in particular.  Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that affect deposit insurance assessments, the payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees could increase the costs associated with TriState Capital Bank's deposit-generating activities, as well as place limitations on the revenues that those deposits may generate.  In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB.  The CFPB has the authority to prescribe rules for all depository institutions governing the provision of consumer financial products and services, which may result in rules and regulations that reduce the profitability of such products and services or impose greater costs on us and our subsidiaries.. On June 8, 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Financial Choice Act of 2017.  The Act scales back or eliminates post-financial crisis banking rules, including restructuring and renaming the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, eliminating the Department of Labor's fiduciary rule and exempting some financial institutions that meet capital and liquidity requirements from many of Dodd-Frank's restrictions. The next step is for the bill to be taken up by the Senate.  It is not clear what the impact from any such changes would be on our business or the markets and industries in which we compete. There is no guaranty that any changes from this Act, if passed, would be positive for us, and any such changes could have a material adverse impact on our business and our prospects.. Federal and state bank regulators periodically examine our business and we may be required to remediate adverse examination findings.. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities periodically examine our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations.  If, as a result of an examination, a bank regulatory agency were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we were in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate.  These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate TriState Capital Bank's charter or deposit insurance and place the Bank into receivership or conservatorship.  Any regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects.. The Bank's FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments may increase.. The deposits of TriState Capital Bank are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, subject it to the payment of FDIC deposit insurance assessments.  The Bank's regular assessments are determined by its risk category, which is based on a combination of its financial ratios and supervisory ratings, which, among other things, generally demonstrates its regulatory capital levels and level of supervisory concern.  High levels of bank failures since 2007 and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased costs. 36. Table of Contents. to the FDIC in resolving bank failures and have put significant pressure on the Deposit Insurance Fund.  In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC increased deposit insurance assessment rates and charged a special assessment to all FDIC-insured financial institutions.  In the third quarter of 2016, the FDIC published the final rule to modify the FDIC deposit insurance premium assessment methodology for banks under $10 billion.  Further increases in assessment rates or special assessments may occur in the future, especially if there are significant additional financial institution failures.. We are subject to regulatory capital rules.. In December 2010, the Basel Committee released a final framework for a strengthened set of capital requirements, known as Basel III.  In July 2013, final rules implementing the Basel III capital accord were adopted by the federal banking agencies.  Basel III, which began phasing in on January 1, 2015, has replaced the existing regulatory capital rules for the Company and the Bank.  The Basel III final rules required new minimum capital ratio standards, established a new common equity tier 1 to total risk-weighted assets ratio, subjected banking organizations to certain limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments, and established a new standardized approach for risk weightings.  Basel III will be fully phased in by 2019.  The overall net impact of applying Basel III regulatory rules to the Company and TriState Capital Bank was beneficial and resulted in an increase to the risk-based capital ratios effective January 1, 2015, which primarily resulted from reduced risk-weighted capital treatment for certain of the Bank's private banking non-purpose margin loans, which are collateralized by liquid and marketable securities that are monitored daily.. We expect that the Company and the Bank will meet all minimum capital requirements and that the Company and the Bank would also meet all capital requirements as if fully phased in without material adverse effects on our business.  However, if the capital rules continue to evolve over time or if our application of the capital rules is challenged or reversed, our business, operating performance or financial prospects may be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to liquidity requirements.. Historically, the regulation and monitoring of bank holding company and bank liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, without required formulaic measures.  The Basel III liquidity framework requires bank holding companies and banks to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management or supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation.  One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio (\"LCR\"), is designed to ensure that a banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity's expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon under a liquidity stress scenario.  The other test, referred to as the net stable funding ratio, is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon.  These requirements will likely encourage banking entities to increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and may increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source.  The liquidity rules released by applicable regulators do not apply to us because we are below $50 billion in assets and because we are not internationally active.  However, it is possible that the federal banking agencies could apply an LCR requirement directly to banks such as our bank in the future, or that the FDIC could apply an LCR requirement to us as a supervisory matter.. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations.  A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion, and restrictions on entering new business lines.  Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation.  Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports when appropriate.  In addition to other bank regulatory agencies, the federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the Department of the Treasury is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the state and federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service.  We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury regarding, among other. 37. Table of Contents. things, the prohibition of transacting business with, and the need to freeze assets of, certain persons and organizations identified as a threat to the national security, foreign policy or economy of the United States.  If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including any acquisition plans.  Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us.  Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. We are a holding company and we depend upon our subsidiaries for liquidity.  Applicable laws and regulations, including capital and liquidity requirements, may restrict our ability to transfer funds from our subsidiaries to us or other subsidiaries.. TriState Capital Holdings, Inc., as the parent company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbank subsidiaries.  We evaluate and manage liquidity on a legal entity basis.  Legal entity liquidity is an important consideration as there are legal and other limitations on our ability to utilize liquidity from one legal entity to satisfy the liquidity requirements of another, including the parent company.  For instance, the parent company depends on distributions and other payments from our banking and nonbank subsidiaries to fund all payments on our other obligations, including debt obligations.  Our bank and investment management subsidiaries are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries.  In addition, our bank and investment management subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in bank or brokerage accounts to fund their businesses.  These limitations may hinder our ability to implement our business strategy and enhance shareholder value which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Common Stock. Shares of our common stock are not an insured deposit.. Shares of our common stock are not bank deposits and are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency.  An investment in our common stock has risks, and you may lose your entire investment.. An active, liquid market for our common stock may not be sustained.. Our common stock is listed on Nasdaq, but we may be unable to meet continued listing standards.  In addition, an active, liquid trading market for our common stock may not be sustained.  A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace and independent decisions of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock, over which we have no control.  Without an active, liquid trading market for our common stock, shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volume, prices and times desired.  Moreover, the lack of an established market could materially and adversely affect the value of our common stock.. Future sales of our common stock may adversely affect our stock price.. The market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the sale of a significant quantity of our outstanding common stock (including any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for common stock), or the perception that such a sale could occur.  These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. The market price of our common stock may be subject to substantial fluctuations, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired.. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, which may make it difficult to resell shares of our common stock at the volume, prices and times desired.  There are many factors that may impact the market price and trading volume of our common stock, including, without limitation:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, financial condition or asset quality;. • changes in economic or business conditions;. • the effects of, and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve;. 38. Table of Contents. • publication of research reports about us, our competitors, or the financial services industry generally, or changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts' estimates of our financial and operating performance, or lack of research reports by industry analysts or ceasing of coverage;. • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deemed comparable to us;. • additional or anticipated sales of our common stock or other securities by us or our existing shareholders;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • perceptions in the marketplace regarding our competitors and/or us;. • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving our competitors or us;. • other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technological factors affecting our operations, pricing, products and services; and. • other news, announcements or disclosures (whether by us or others) related to us, our competitors, our core market or the financial services industry.. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks have experienced substantial fluctuations in recent years, which in many cases have been unrelated to the operating performance and prospects of particular companies.  In addition, significant fluctuations in the trading volume in our common stock may cause significant price variations to occur.  Increased market volatility may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, which could make it difficult to sell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired.. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly due to actual or anticipated issuances or sales of our common stock in the future.. Actual or anticipated issuances or sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly and make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and on terms that we deem appropriate.  The issuance of any shares of our common stock in the future also would, and equity-related securities could, dilute the percentage ownership interest held by shareholders prior to such issuance.  We may issue additional equity securities, or debt securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for equity securities, from time to time to raise additional capital, support growth or to make acquisitions.  Further, we expect to issue stock options or other stock awards to retain and motivate our employees, executives and directors.  These issuances of securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders.. Securities analysts may not continue coverage on our common stock.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business.  We do not have any control over these securities analysts, and they may not cover our common stock.  If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect its market price.  To the extent that we are covered by securities analysts, and our common stock is the subject of an unfavorable report, the price of our common stock may decline.  If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price or trading volume of our common stock to decline.. Our current management and board of directors have significant control over our business.. Our directors, as well as their related parties, and executive officers beneficially own a material portion of our outstanding common stock (~24%).  Consequently, our directors and executive officers, acting together, may be able to significantly affect the outcome of the election of directors and the potential outcome of other matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, such as mergers, the sale of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary corporate matters.  The interests of these insiders could conflict with the interest of our shareholders, including you.. The rights of holders of our common stock will be subordinate to the rights of holders of any debt securities that we may issue and may be subordinate to the rights of holders of any class of preferred stock that we may issue in the future.. Our board of directors has the authority to issue debt securities or an aggregate of up to 150,000 shares of preferred stock on the terms it determines without shareholder approval.  We also have issued subordinated debt which as of December 31, 2017, had an outstanding. 39. Table of Contents. balance of $35.0 million.  Any debt or shares of preferred stock that we may issue in the future could be senior to our common stock.  Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities or incur other borrowings in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, the amount, timing, nature or success of our future capital raising efforts is uncertain.  Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or our incurrence of other borrowings may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced regulatory and reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (\"JOBS Act\").  We will cease to be an emerging growth company as of December 31, 2018.  As an emerging growth company we have been permitted to take advantage of reduced regulatory and reporting requirements that are otherwise generally applicable to public companies.  These include, without limitation, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation, and exemptions from the requirements of holding non-binding advisory votes on executive compensation and golden parachute payments.  We have generally elected to take advantage of these reduced requirements.  The JOBS Act also permits an \"emerging growth company\" such as us to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies.  However, we have irrevocably \"opted out\" of this provision, and we will comply with new or revised accounting standards to the same extent that compliance is required for non-emerging growth companies.  Investors may find our common stock less attractive to the extent that we rely on the exemptions, which may result in a less active trading market and increased volatility in our stock price.. Fulfilling our public company financial reporting and other regulatory obligations is expensive and time consuming.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and are required to implement specific corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC as well as Nasdaq Stock Market Rules.  In particular, we are required to file with the SEC annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition.  Compliance with these requirements places significant demands on our legal, accounting and finance staff and on our accounting, financial and information systems and requires us to incur significant legal and accounting compliance costs as well as compensation expense for additional accounting, finance, legal and internal audit staff to comply with these reporting requirements.  Our compliance efforts and these expenses are anticipated to increase in the future, particularly as we cease as of the end of 2018 to be an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act.  These efforts may divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. We have not paid dividends and are subject to regulatory restrictions on our ability to pay dividends in the foreseeable future.. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since inception.  Instead, we have utilized our earnings for working capital to support our operations and to finance the growth and development of our business.  In addition, we are subject to certain restrictions on the payment of cash dividends as a result of banking laws, regulations and policies.  Finally, because TriState Capital Bank is our most significant asset, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders depends in large part on our receipt of dividends from the Bank, which is also subject to restrictions on dividends as a result of banking laws, regulations and policies.  Even if we decide to pay dividends in the future (and we have not made such a decision), we would also have to comply with these regulatory restrictions.. Our corporate governance documents, and certain corporate and banking laws applicable to us, could make a takeover more difficult.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our bylaws, as amended, and corporate and federal banking laws, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our organization or conduct a proxy contest, even if those events were perceived by many of our shareholders as beneficial to their interests.  These provisions, and the corporate and banking laws and regulations applicable to us:. • empower our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to issue our preferred stock, the terms of which, including voting power, are set by our board of directors;. • divide our board of directors into four classes serving staggered four-year terms;. • eliminate cumulative voting in elections of directors;. • require the request of holders of at least 10% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote at a meeting to call a special shareholders' meeting;. 40. Table of Contents. • require at least 60 days' advance notice of nominations by shareholders for the election of directors and the presentation of shareholder proposals at meetings of shareholders; and. • require prior regulatory application and approval of any transaction involving control of our organization.. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, including circumstances in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of our shares.. There are substantial regulatory limitations on changes of control of bank holding companies.. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be \"acting in concert\" from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of our directors or otherwise direct the management or policies of our company without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Federal Reserve.  Accordingly, prospective investors need to be aware of and comply with these requirements, if applicable, in connection with any purchase of shares of our common stock.  These provisions effectively inhibit certain mergers or other business combinations, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 41. Table of Contents"
