[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Trustmark and its subsidiaries could be adversely impacted by various risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict.  As a financial institution, Trustmark has significant exposure to market risks, including interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.  This section includes a description of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified by Management that could, individually or in combination, materially affect Trustmark's financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of Trustmark's financial instruments in general, and Trustmark common stock, in particular.  Additional risks and uncertainties that Management currently deems immaterial or is unaware of may also impair Trustmark's financial condition and results of operations.  This report is qualified in its entirety by the risk factors that are identified below.. Trustmark's largest source of revenue (net interest income) is subject to interest rate risk.. Trustmark's profitability depends to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.  Trustmark is exposed to interest rate risk in its core banking activities of lending and deposit taking, since assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change.  Trustmark is unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond Trustmark's control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets.  During June 2017, the FRB increased the target range for the federal funds rate for the third consecutive quarter.  In December 2017, the FRB further increased rates and commenced reducing the size of its balance sheet.  In December 2017, the FRB also predicted an additional three interest rate hikes in 2018.  It is not possible to predict the impact, if any, on market interest rates of efforts by the FRB to reduce the size of its balance sheet.. Financial simulation models are the primary tools used by Trustmark to measure interest rate exposure.  Using a wide range of scenarios, Management is provided with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates.  Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Trustmark's balance sheet.  Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve and the changing composition of Trustmark's balance sheet, resulting from both strategic plans and customer behavior.  In addition, the model incorporates Management's assumptions and expectations regarding such factors as loan and deposit growth, pricing, prepayment speeds and spreads between. 17. interest rates.  Trustmark's simulation model using static balances at December 31, 2017, estimated that in the event of a hypothetical 200 basis point increase in interest rates, net interest income may decrease 2.1%, while a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates, may decrease net interest income 1.0%.  In the event of a hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates using static balances at December 31, 2017, it is estimated net interest income may decrease by 4.2%.. Net interest income is Trustmark's largest revenue source, and it is important to discuss how Trustmark's interest rate risk may be influenced by the various factors shown below:. •  In general, for a given change in interest rates, the amount of the change in value (positive or negative) is larger for assets and liabilities with longer remaining maturities.  The shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields, funding costs and investment income differently.. •  The remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as payment behavior changes in response to changes in interest rates.  For example, if interest rates decline sharply, fixed-rate loans may pre-pay, or pay down, faster than anticipated, thus reducing future cash flows and interest income.  Conversely, if interest rates increase, depositors may cash in their certificates of deposit prior to term (notwithstanding any applicable early withdrawal penalties) or otherwise reduce their deposits to pursue higher yielding investment alternatives.  Repricing frequencies and maturity profiles for assets and liabilities may occur at different times.  For example, in a falling rate environment, if assets reprice faster than liabilities, there will be an initial decline in earnings.  Moreover, if assets and liabilities reprice at the same time, they may not be by the same increment.  For instance, if the federal funds rate increased 50 basis points, rates on demand deposits may rise by 10 basis points, whereas rates on prime-based loans will instantly rise 50 basis points.. Financial instruments do not respond in a parallel fashion to rising or falling interest rates.  This causes asymmetry in the magnitude of changes in net interest income, net economic value and investment income resulting from the hypothetical increases and decreases in interest rates.  Therefore, Management monitors interest rate risk and adjusts Trustmark's investment, funding and hedging strategies to mitigate adverse effects of interest rate shifts on Trustmark's balance sheet.. Trustmark utilizes derivative contracts to hedge the mortgage servicing rights (MSR) in order to offset changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rate environments.  In spite of Trustmark's due diligence in regard to these hedging strategies, significant risks are involved that, if realized, may prove such strategies to be ineffective, which could adversely affect Trustmark's financial condition or results of operations.  Risks associated with these strategies include the risk that counterparties in any such derivative and other hedging transactions may not perform; the risk that these hedging strategies rely on Management's assumptions and projections regarding these assets and general market factors, including prepayment risk, basis risk, market volatility and changes in the shape of the yield curve, and that these assumptions and projections may prove to be incorrect; the risk that these hedging strategies do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other forecasted inputs to the hedging model; and the risk that the models used to forecast the effectiveness of hedging instruments may project expectations that differ from actual results.  In addition, increased regulation of the derivative markets may increase the cost to Trustmark to implement and maintain an effective hedging strategy.. Trustmark closely monitors the sensitivity of net interest income and investment income to changes in interest rates and attempts to limit the variability of net interest income as interest rates change.  Trustmark makes use of both on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk.. Trustmark's business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions in general.. The economy continued to show moderate signs of improvement in 2017; however, economic concerns remain as a result of the cumulative weight of volatility in crude oil prices and uncertain growth prospects in Russia and other emerging markets, combined with uncertainty regarding the impact of further tightening of the monetary policy by the FRB, the consequences of the decision of the United Kingdom to exit the European Union, and the potential impact on the economy of the current presidential administration's policies.  Doubts surrounding the near-term direction of global markets, and the potential impact of these trends on the United States economy, are expected to persist for the near term.  While Trustmark's customer base is wholly domestic, international economic conditions affect domestic conditions, and thus may have an impact upon Trustmark's financial condition or results of operations. While domestic demand for loans has improved, particularly for commercial loans, further meaningful gains will depend on sustained economic growth.  Strategic risk, including threats to business models from rising rates and modest economic growth, remains high.  Management's ability to plan, prioritize and allocate resources in this new environment will be critical to Trustmark's ability to sustain earnings that will attract capital.  Because of the complexities presented by current economic conditions, Management will continue to be challenged in identifying alternative sources of revenue, prudently diversifying assets, liabilities and revenue and effectively managing the costs of compliance.. 18. During June 2017, the FRB increased the target range for the federal funds rate for the third consecutive quarter.  In December 2017, the FRB further increased rates and commenced reducing the size of its balance sheet.  In December 2017, the FRB predicted an additional three interest rate hikes in 2018.  It is not possible to predict the impact, if any, on market interest rates of efforts by the FRB to reduce the size of its balance sheet.  The extended period of low interest rates continues to place pressure on net interest margins for Trustmark (as well as its competitors); however, interest rates have increased during 2017 and the FRB has indicated that it intends to continue to raise rates in 2018.  Any increases in interest rates will place competitive pressures on the deposit cost of funds.  It is not possible to predict the pace and magnitude of rising interest rates, or the impact rising rates will have on Trustmark's results of operations.. Despite recent optimism resulting from stabilization in the housing sector, improvement of unemployment data and credit quality improvement, Trustmark does not assume that current uncertain conditions in the economy will improve significantly in the near future.  A further weakened economy could affect Trustmark in a variety of substantial and unpredictable ways.  In particular, Trustmark may face the following risks in connection with these events:. •  Market developments and the resulting economic pressure on consumers may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause increases in delinquencies and default rates, which, among other effects, could further affect Trustmark's charge-offs and provision for loan losses.. •  Loan performance could experience a significantly extended deterioration or loan default levels could accelerate, foreclosure activity could significantly increase, or Trustmark's assets (including loans and investment securities) could materially decline in value, any one of which, or any combination of more than one of which, could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark's financial condition or results of operations.. •  Management's ability to measure the fair value of Trustmark's assets could be adversely affected by market disruptions that could make valuation of assets more difficult and subjective.  If Management determines that a significant portion of its assets have values that are significantly below their recorded carrying value, Trustmark could recognize a material charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination was made, Trustmark's capital ratios would be adversely affected by any such charge, and a rating agency might downgrade Trustmark's credit rating or put Trustmark on credit watch.. •  The price per barrel of crude oil remained volatile during 2017.  As of December 31, 2017, energy-related LHFI represented approximately 2.6% of Trustmark's total LHFI portfolio, and consisted principally of loans within the oilfield services and midstream segments.  Additionally, as of December 31, 2017, approximately 9.7% of Trustmark's energy-related LHFI, or 0.3% of Trustmark's total LHFI portfolio, were classified as nonperforming or nonaccrual.  Trustmark has no loan exposure where the source of repayment, or the underlying security of such exposure, is tied to the realization of value from energy reserves.  Nonetheless, if oil prices remain at current levels or below for an extended period of time, Trustmark could experience weakening or increased losses within its energy-related LHFI portfolio.. It is difficult to predict the extent to which these challenging economic conditions will persist or whether recent progress in the economic recovery will instead shift to the potential for further decline.  If the economy does weaken in the future, it is uncertain how Trustmark's business would be affected and whether Trustmark would be able successfully to mitigate any such effects on its business.  Accordingly, these factors in the United States (and, indirectly, global) economy could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark's financial condition and results of operations.. Trustmark is subject to lending risk, which could impact the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and results of operations.. There are inherent risks associated with Trustmark's lending activities.  While the housing and real estate markets have shown continued improvement, they remain at depressed levels in certain regions.  If trends in the housing and real estate markets were to revert or further decline below recession levels, Trustmark may experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses.  Moreover, if the United States economy returns to a recessionary state, Management expects that it could severely affect economic conditions in Trustmark's market areas and that Trustmark could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses.  In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review Trustmark's allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of Management.  As a result, Trustmark may elect, or be required to, to make further increases in its provision for loan losses in the future, particularly if economic conditions deteriorate.. Additionally, Trustmark may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions.  This information could include financial statements, credit reports, business plans, and other information.  Trustmark may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information.  Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial. 19. statements, credit reports, or other information could have a material adverse impact on Trustmark's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Trustmark is subject to liquidity risk, which could disrupt its ability to meet its financial obligations.. Liquidity refers to Trustmark's ability to ensure that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demand for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs and other corporate purposes.  Liquidity risk arises whenever the maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities differ or when assets cannot be liquidated at fair market value as needed.  Trustmark obtains funding through deposits and various short-term and long-term wholesale borrowings, including federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, the Federal Reserve Discount Window (Discount Window) and Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances.  Any significant restriction or disruption of Trustmark's ability to obtain funding from these or other sources could have a negative effect on Trustmark's ability to satisfy its current and future financial obligations, which could materially affect Trustmark's financial condition or results of operations.. In addition to the risk that one or more of the funding sources may become constrained due to market conditions unrelated to Trustmark, there is the risk that Trustmark's credit profile may decline such that one or more of these funding sources becomes partially or wholly unavailable to Trustmark.. Trustmark attempts to quantify such credit event risk by modeling bank specific and systemic scenarios that estimate the liquidity impact.  Trustmark estimates such impact by attempting to measure the effect on available unsecured lines of credit, available capacity from secured borrowing sources and securitizable assets.  To mitigate such risk, Trustmark maintains available lines of credit with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and the FHLB of Dallas that are secured by loans and investment securities.  Management continuously monitors Trustmark's liquidity position for compliance with internal policies.. Trustmark is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision and possible enforcement and other legal actions.. Trustmark, primarily through TNB and certain nonbank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which vests a significant amount of discretion in the various regulatory authorities.  Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders.  These regulations and supervisory guidance affect Trustmark's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things.  Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes.  Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or supervisory guidance, including changes in interpretation or implementation or statutes, regulations, policies and supervisory guidance, could affect Trustmark in substantial and unpredictable ways.  Such changes could subject Trustmark to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products Trustmark may offer and/or increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things.  Failure to comply with laws, regulations, policies or supervisory guidance could result in enforcement and other legal actions by Federal or state authorities, including criminal and civil penalties, the loss of FDIC insurance, the revocation of a banking charter, civil money penalties, other sanctions by regulatory agencies and/or reputational damage.  In this regard, government authorities, including bank regulatory agencies, continue to pursue enforcement agendas with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures.  Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark's financial condition or results of operations.. Trustmark is subject to stringent capital requirements.. On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, announced agreement on the calibration and phase-in arrangements for a strengthened set of capital requirements, known as Basel III.  The FRB, OCC, and FDIC issued final rules establishing regulatory capital requirements consistent with Basel III and implementing the capital requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act in July 2013.  These capital rules require, among other things, a minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%, net of regulatory deductions, and establish a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5% of common equity to risk-weighted assets above the regulatory minimum capital requirement, effectively establishing a minimum common equity Tier 1 ratio of 7%.  In addition, the capital rules increased the minimum Tier 1 capital requirement from 4% to 6% of risk-weighted assets.  The capital rules also specify that a banking organization with a capital conservation buffer that does not exceed 2.5% shall face limitations on capital distributions and bonus payments to executives.. The capital rules also include stringent criteria for capital instruments to qualify as Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital.  For instance, the rules effectively disallow newly-issued trust preferred securities to be a component of a holding company's Tier 1 capital.  Trustmark will continue to count $60.0 million in outstanding trust preferred securities issued by the Trust as Tier 1 capital up to the regulatory limit, as permitted by a grandfather provision in the capital rules.. 20. Trustmark and TNB were required to comply with the revised capital rules beginning January 1, 2015.  Certain of the requirements of the revised capital rules, such as the capital conservation buffer, will be phased in until January 1, 2019.  Once the revised capital requirements are fully phased in, Trustmark and TNB will be required to hold a greater amount of capital and a greater amount of common equity than they were previously required to hold.  Management does not expect the capital rules to have a significant impact on Trustmark or TNB.. Unfavorable results from ongoing stress test analyses conducted on Trustmark and TNB may adversely affect Trustmark's ability to approve, declare and pay dividends to shareholders or compete for new business opportunities.. The FRB and OCC require Trustmark and TNB to perform periodic stress tests and analysis to evaluate their ability to absorb losses in various economic and financial scenarios.  This stress test analysis uses three economic and financial scenarios generated by the FRB and OCC, including baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios.  Trustmark and TNB are required to make certain assumptions in modeling future performance and must support these assumptions through statistical analysis and observed market behavior where applicable.  Results of the stress tests and analysis performed by Trustmark and TNB must be submitted to the FRB and the OCC annually to be used in the regulators' analysis.. The outcome of the FRB's analysis of Trustmark's projected performance (including capital, earnings and balance sheet changes) could hinder Trustmark's ability to pay cash dividends to shareholders at levels consistent with prior practice, or at all.  The results of the stress tests could also impact decision making regarding future acquisitions by Trustmark as well as Trustmark's ability to effectively compete for new business opportunities.. Additionally, the FRB and OCC may require Trustmark and TNB to raise additional capital or take other actions, or may impose restrictions on its business, based on the results of the stress tests, including requiring revisions or changes to capital plans.  Trustmark and TNB may not be able to raise additional capital if required to do so, or may not be able to do so on favorable terms.  Any such capital raises, if required, may also be dilutive to existing shareholders.. There may be risks resulting from the extensive use of models in Trustmark's business.. Trustmark relies on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values.  Models may be used in such processes as determining the pricing of various products, assessing potential acquisition opportunities, developing presentations made to market analysts and others, creating loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting losses, assessing capital adequacy, conducting capital stress testing, calculating regulatory capital levels and estimating the fair value of financial instruments and balance sheet items.  These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances.  Even if these assumptions are adequate, the models may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation.  If models for determining interest rate risk and asset-liability management are inadequate, Trustmark may incur increased or unexpected losses upon changes in market interest rates or other market measures.  If models for determining probable loan losses are inadequate, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to support future charge-offs.  If models to measure the fair value of financial instruments are inadequate, the fair value of such financial instruments may fluctuate unexpectedly or may not accurately reflect what Trustmark could realize upon sale or settlement of such financial instruments.  Any such failure in the analytical or forecasting models could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark's financial condition or results of operations.. Also, information Trustmark provides to its regulators based on poorly designed or implemented models could be inaccurate or misleading.  Certain decisions that the regulators make, including those related to capital distributions and dividends to Trustmark's shareholders, could be adversely affected due to the regulator's perception that the quality of Trustmark's models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient.. Trustmark could be required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets.. When Trustmark consummates an acquisition, a portion of the purchase price is generally allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets.  The amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired.  At December 31, 2017, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were $396.0 million.  Under current accounting standards, if Trustmark determines goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, Trustmark would be required to write down the carrying value of these assets.  Trustmark's annual goodwill impairment evaluation performed during the fourth quarter of 2017 indicated no impairment of goodwill for any reporting segment.  Management cannot provide assurance, however, that Trustmark will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future.  Any impairment charge would have an adverse effect on Trustmark's shareholders' equity and financial condition and could cause a decline in Trustmark's stock price.. 21. Trustmark holds a significant amount of other real estate and may acquire and hold significant additional amounts, which could lead to increased operating expenses and vulnerability to additional declines in real property values.. As business necessitates, Trustmark forecloses on and takes title to real estate serving as collateral for loans.  At December 31, 2017, Trustmark held $43.2 million of other real estate, compared to $62.1 million at December 31, 2016.  The amount of other real estate held by Trustmark may increase in the future as a result of, among other things, business combinations, increased uncertainties in the housing market or increased levels of credit stress in residential real estate loan portfolios.  Increased other real estate balances could lead to greater expenses as Trustmark incurs costs to manage, maintain and dispose of real properties as well as to remediate any environmental cleanup costs incurred in connection with any contamination discovered on real property on which Trustmark has foreclosed and to which Trustmark has taken title.  As a result, Trustmark's earnings could be negatively affected by various expenses associated with other real estate owned, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, valuation adjustments and other expenses associated with real property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with other real estate assets.  The expenses associated with holding a significant amount of other real estate could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark's financial condition or results of operations.. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely affect the value of Trustmark's investments.. Trustmark maintains an investment portfolio that includes, among other asset classes, obligations of states and municipalities, agency debt securities and agency mortgage-related securities.  The market value of investments in Trustmark's investment portfolio may be affected by factors other than interest rates or the underlying performance of the issuer of the securities, such as ratings downgrades, adverse changes in the business climate and a lack of pricing information or liquidity in the secondary market for certain investment securities.  In addition, government involvement or intervention in the financial markets or the lack thereof or market perceptions regarding the existence or absence of such activities could affect the market and the market prices for these securities.. On a quarterly basis, Trustmark evaluates investments and other assets for impairment indicators.  As of December 31, 2017, gross unrealized losses on temporarily impaired securities totaled $42.1 million.  Trustmark may be required to record impairment charges if these investments suffer a decline in value that is other-than-temporary.  If it is determined that a significant impairment has occurred, Trustmark would be required to charge against earnings the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations in the period in which a write-off, if any, occurs.. If Trustmark is required to repurchase a significant number of mortgage loans that it had previously sold, such repurchases could negatively affect earnings.. One of Trustmark's primary business operations is mortgage banking under which residential mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market under agreements that contain representations and warranties related to, among other things, the origination and characteristics of the mortgage loans.  Trustmark may be required to either repurchase the outstanding principal balance of a loan or make the purchaser whole for the anticipated economic benefits of a loan if it is determined that the loan sold was in violation of representations or warranties made by Trustmark at the time of the sale, herein referred to as mortgage loan servicing putback expenses.  Such representations and warranties typically include those made regarding loans that had missing or insufficient file documentation, loans that do not meet investor guidelines, loans in which the appraisal does not support the value and/or loans obtained through fraud by the borrowers or other third parties.  Generally, putback requests may be made until the loan is paid in full.  However, mortgage loans delivered to the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) on or after January 1, 2013 are subject to the Lending and Selling Representations and Warranties Framework updated in May 2014, which provides certain instances in which FNMA and FHLMC will not exercise their remedies, including a putback request, for breaches of certain selling representations and warranties, such as payment history and quality control review.. Trustmark operates in a highly competitive financial services industry.. Trustmark faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have greater financial resources.  Such competitors primarily include national and regional banks, as well as community banks within the various markets in which Trustmark operates.  At this time, major international banks do not materially compete directly with Trustmark in its markets, although they may do so in the future.  Trustmark also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries.  Additionally, fintech developments, such as blockchain and other distributed ledger technologies, have the potential to disrupt the financial industry and change the way banks do business.  The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation.. 22. Some of Trustmark's competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures.  Additionally, due to their size, many of Trustmark's larger competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than Trustmark.. Trustmark's ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; the ability to continue to expand Trustmark's market position through organic growth and acquisitions; the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; the rate at which Trustmark introduces new products and services relative to its competitors; and industry and general economic trends.  Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken Trustmark's competitive position, which could adversely affect Trustmark's financial condition or results of operations.. Potential acquisitions by Trustmark may disrupt Trustmark's business and dilute shareholder value.. Trustmark seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services, and Trustmark will likely continue to seek to acquire such businesses in the future.  Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company, exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company, difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company, potential disruption to Trustmark's business, potential diversion of Trustmark's Management's time and attention, the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company, difficulty in estimating the value of the target company and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company.  Acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of Trustmark's tangible book value and net income per share of common stock may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue projections, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark's financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, the acquisition of an insured depository institution that subsequently fails could significantly adversely affect an affiliated insured depository institution.  Under cross-guarantee provisions of the FDI Act, the FDIC may recoup losses to the DIF by assessing a claim against insured depository institutions under common control for losses caused by the failure of an affiliated insured depository institution.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect Trustmark.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships.  As a result, defaults by, or questions or rumors about, one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems, which could, in turn, lead to defaults or losses by Trustmark and by other institutions.  Trustmark has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, mutual funds, and other institutional clients.  Many of these transactions expose Trustmark to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client.  In addition, Trustmark's credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral it holds cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure owed to Trustmark.  Losses related to these credit risks could materially and adversely affect Trustmark's results of operations.. Trustmark may experience disruptions of its operating systems or breaches in its information system security.. Trustmark is dependent upon communications and information systems to conduct business as such systems are used to manage virtually all aspects of Trustmark's business.  Trustmark's operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information within its computer systems and networks.  Trustmark has taken protective measures, which are continuously monitored and modified as warranted; however, Trustmark's computer systems, software and networks may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond Trustmark's control.  There could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical, telecommunications or other major physical infrastructure outages; natural disasters; and events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts.  Further, Trustmark's operational and security systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious codes and cyber-attacks that could affect their information system security.  If one or more of these events were to occur, Trustmark's or its customers' confidential and other information would be jeopardized, or such an event could cause interruptions or malfunctions in Trustmark's or its customers' or counterparties' operations.  Trustmark may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures in its computer systems and networks, and Trustmark may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by Trustmark.  Any such losses, which. 23. may be difficult to detect, could adversely affect Trustmark's financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, the occurrence of such a loss could expose Trustmark to reputational risk, the loss of customer business and additional regulatory scrutiny.. Security breaches in Trustmark's internet and mobile banking activities (myTrustmarkSM) could further expose Trustmark to possible liability and reputational risk.  Any compromise in security could deter customers from using Trustmark's internet and mobile banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information.  Trustmark relies on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data.  However, these precautions may not protect Trustmark's systems from compromise or breaches of security, which could result in significant legal liability and significant damage to Trustmark's reputation and business.. Trustmark relies upon certain third-party vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain day-to-day operations.  Accordingly, Trustmark's operations are exposed to the risk that these vendors might not perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements or that the security of the third-party vendors' computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to compromises that could impact information system security.  Trustmark maintains a system of policies and procedures designed to monitor vendor risks.  While Trustmark believes these policies and procedures effectively mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements or any compromise in the security of an external vendor's information systems could be disruptive to Trustmark's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.. Trustmark must utilize new technologies to deliver its products and services, which could require significant resources and expose Trustmark to additional risks, including cyber-security risks.. In order to deliver new products and services and to improve the productivity of existing products and services, the banking industry relies on rapidly evolving technologies.  Trustmark's ability to effectively utilize new technologies to address customer needs and create operating efficiencies could materially affect future prospects.  Management cannot provide any assurances that Trustmark will be successful in utilizing such new technologies.  Incorporation of new products and services, such as internet and mobile banking services, may require significant resources and expose Trustmark to additional risks, including cyber-security risks.. Trustmark's use of third-party service providers and Trustmark's other ongoing third-party business relationships are subject to increasing regulatory requirements and attention.. Trustmark regularly uses third-party service providers and subcontractors as part of its business.  Trustmark also has substantial ongoing business relationships with partners and other third-parties, and relies on certain third-parties to provide products and services necessary to maintain day-to-day operations.  These types of third-party relationships are subject to increasingly demanding regulatory requirements and attention by regulators, including the FRB, OCC, CFPB and FDIC.  Under regulatory guidance, Trustmark is required to apply stringent due diligence, conduct ongoing monitoring and maintain effective control over third-party service providers and subcontractors and other ongoing third-party business relationships.  Trustmark expects that the regulators will hold Trustmark responsible for deficiencies in its oversight and control of its third-party relationships and in the performance of the parties with which Trustmark has these relationships.  Trustmark maintains a system of policies and procedures designed to ensure adequate due diligence is performed and to monitor vendor risks.  While Trustmark believes these policies and procedures effectively mitigate risk, if the regulators conclude that Trustmark has not exercised adequate oversight and control over third-party service providers and subcontractors or other ongoing third-party business relationships or that such third-parties have not performed appropriately, Trustmark could be subject to enforcement actions, including civil monetary penalties or other administrative or judicial penalties or fines as well as requirements for customer remediation.. Trustmark's controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. Trustmark's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures are based in part on assumptions, and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met.  Any failure or circumvention of Trustmark's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark's business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. The stock price of financial institutions, like Trustmark, can be volatile.. The volatility in the stock prices of companies in the financial services industry, such as Trustmark, may make it more difficult for shareholders to resell Trustmark common stock at attractive prices in a timely manner.  Trustmark's stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including factors affecting the financial industry as a whole.  The factors affecting financial stocks generally and Trustmark's stock price in particular include:. •  actual or anticipated variations in earnings;. •  changes in analysts' recommendations or projections;. •  operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers;. •  perception in the marketplace regarding Trustmark, its competitors and/or the industry as a whole;. •  significant acquisitions or business combinations involving Trustmark or its competitors;. •  provisions in Trustmark's by-laws and articles of incorporation that may discourage takeover attempts, which may make Trustmark less attractive to a potential purchaser;. •  changes in government regulation;. •  failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; and. •  volatility affecting the financial markets in general.. General market fluctuations, the potential for breakdowns on electronic trading or other platforms for executing securities transactions, industry factors and general economic and political conditions could also cause Trustmark's stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.. Changes in accounting standards may affect how Trustmark reports its financial condition and results of operations.. Trustmark's accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how Trustmark records and reports its financial condition and results of operations.  From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Trustmark's financial statements.  The most recent economic recession resulted in increased scrutiny of accounting standards by regulators and legislators, particularly as they relate to fair value accounting principles.  In addition, ongoing efforts to achieve convergence between U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards may result in changes to GAAP.  Any such changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how Trustmark records and reports its financial condition or results of operations.  For example, in June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-13, \"Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,\" which replaces the current incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects all current expected credit losses (CECL) and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to determine credit loss estimates.  Trustmark intends to adopt ASU 2016-13 during the first quarter of 2020, and adoption of this ASU could materially affect its allowance for loan losses methodology, financial condition, capital levels and results of operations, including expenses Trustmark may incur in implementing this ASU.  For additional details regarding recently adopted and pending accounting pronouncements, see Note 1  -  Significant Accounting Policies included in Part II. Item 8. - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report.. Trustmark may not be able to attract or retain key employees.. Trustmark's success depends substantially on its ability to attract and retain skilled, experienced personnel.  Competition for qualified candidates in the activities and markets that Trustmark serves is intense.  While Trustmark invests significantly in the training and developments of its employees, it is possible that Trustmark may not be able to retain key employees.  If Trustmark were unable to retain its most qualified employees, its performance and competitive positioning could be materially adversely affected.. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, could have a significant negative impact on Trustmark's business.. Many of Trustmark's loans are secured by property or are made to businesses in or near the Gulf Coast regions of Alabama, Florida, Mississippi and Texas, which are often in the path of seasonal hurricanes.  Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, could have a significant negative impact on the stability of Trustmark's deposit base, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing loans, and could cause Trustmark to incur material additional expenses.  Although Management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of a natural disaster, especially if any applicable insurance coverage is not adequate to enable Trustmark's borrowers to recover from the effects of the event, could have a material adverse effect on Trustmark's financial condition or results of operations.. 25. Trustmark may be subject to increased claims and litigation, which could result in legal liability and reputational damage.. Trustmark has been named from time to time as a defendant in litigation relating to its businesses and activities.  Litigation may include claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages.. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed \"lender liability.\"  Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders.. Substantial legal liability against Trustmark, including its subsidiaries, could materially adversely affect Trustmark's business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause significant harm to our reputation.. Damage to Trustmark's reputation could have a significant negative impact on Trustmark's business.. Trustmark's ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors, and highly-skilled management and employees is affected by its reputation.  Public perception of the financial services industry declined as a result of the economic downturn and related government response.  Trustmark faces increased public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and economic downturn.  Significant harm to Trustmark's reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, actual or perceived unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, compliance failures, disclosure of confidential information, significant or numerous failures, interruptions or breaches of its information systems and the activities of its clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors.  Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry may have a significant adverse effect on Trustmark's reputation.  Trustmark could also suffer significant reputational harm if it fails to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest.  Management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly complex as Trustmark expands its business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among its clients.  The actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with Trustmark, which could adversely affect Trustmark's businesses."
