[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this section when evaluating our business. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations (including revenue, profitability and cash flows) could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our stock may decline.. Our markets are highly competitive and we might not be able to compete effectively. The markets where we offer our services are highly competitive. Our future performance is largely dependent on our ability to compete successfully in markets we currently serve, while expanding into new, profitable markets. We compete with large multinational service providers; offshore service providers from lower-cost jurisdictions that offer similar services, often at highly competitive prices and more aggressive contract terms; niche solution providers that compete with us in specific geographic markets, industry segments or service areas; companies that rely on new disruptive technologies or delivery models, including artificial intelligence powered solutions; and in-house functions of large companies that use their own resources, rather than outsourcing customer care and customer experience services we provide. Some of our competitors have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and, therefore, may be better able to compete.. Further, the continuing trend of consolidation in the technology sector and among business process outsourcing competitors in various geographies where we have operations may result in new competitors with greater scale, a broader footprint, better technologies, and price efficiencies attractive to our clients. If we are unable to compete successfully and provide our clients with superior service and solutions at competitive prices, we could lose market share and clients to competitors, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If we are unsuccessful in implementing our business strategy, our long-term financial prospects could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy is based on continuous diversification of our business beyond contact center customer care outsourcing to an integrated customer experience platform that unites innovative and disruptive technologies, strategic consulting, data analytics, client growth solutions, and customer experience focused system design and integration. These investments in technologies and integrated solution development, however, may not lead to increased revenue and profitability as we may not be successful in deploying our new products and services. If we are not successful in creating value from these investments, the investments could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition.. 7. Table of Contents. Cyber-attacks, cyber-fraud, and unauthorized information disclosure could harm our reputation, cause liability, result in service outages and losses, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business involves the use, storage, and transmission of information about our clients, customers of our clients, and our employees. While we take reasonable measures to protect the security of and unauthorized access to our systems and the privacy of personal and proprietary information that we access and store, our security controls over our systems may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of this information. Such unauthorized access or disclosure could subject us to liability under relevant law and our contracts and could harm our reputation resulting in loss of revenue and loss of business opportunities.. In recent years, there have been an increasing number of high profile security breaches at companies and government agencies, and security experts have warned about the growing risks of hackers and cyber criminals launching a broad range of attacks targeting information technology systems. Our business is dependent on information technology systems. Information security breaches, computer viruses, interruption or loss of business data, DDoS (distributed denial of service) attacks, and other cyber-attacks on any of these systems could disrupt the normal operations of our contact centers, our cloud platform offerings, and our enterprise services, impeding our ability to provide critical services to our clients.. We are experiencing an increase in frequency of cyber-fraud attempts, such as so-called \"social engineering\" attacks and phishing scams, which typically seek unauthorized money transfers or information disclosure. We actively train our employees to recognize these attacks and have implemented proactive risk mitigation measures to curb them. There are no assurances, however, that these attacks, which are also growing in sophistication, may deceive our employees, resulting in a material loss.. While we have taken reasonable measures to protect our systems and processes from intrusion and cyber-fraud, we cannot be certain that advances in cyber-criminal capabilities, discovery of new system vulnerabilities, and attempts to exploit such vulnerabilities will not compromise or breach the technology protecting our systems and the information that we manage and control, which could result in damage to our systems, our reputation and our profitability.. Our need for consistent improvements in cybersecurity may force us to expend significant additional resources to respond to system disruptions and security breaches, including additional investments in repairing systems damaged by such attacks, reconfiguring and rerouting systems to reduce vulnerabilities, and resolution of legal claims that may arise from data breaches. A significant cyber security breach could materially harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.. The recently enacted General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") in Europe goes into effect in the second quarter of 2018. We are currently working to develop our compliance solutions for GDPR and, once fully implemented these solutions may impose significant incremental costs on our operations in Europe, thus impacting our results of operations.. Our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected if we cannot adapt our service offerings to changes in technology. Our success depends on our ability to develop and implement technology, consulting and outsourcing services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuous changes in technology. Areas of significant change include artificial intelligence, digital offerings, voice recognition and self-help software solutions, automation, chatbots, and 'as-a-service' cloud solutions. Our growth and profitability will depend on our ability to develop and adopt new disruptive technologies that expand our existing offerings to leverage new technological trends and cost efficiencies in our operations.. 8. Table of Contents. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to new technology developments and our integration of these technologies may not achieve their intended service enhancements or cost reductions. Services and technologies offered by our competitors may make our service offerings obsolete and may reduce or replace some of our offerings. As technology continues to evolve, more tasks currently performed by our agents may be replaced by automation, robotics, artificial intelligence, chatbots and other technological advances, which pose risks our lower-skill, tier one, customer care offerings. These technology innovations could potentially reduce our business volumes and related revenues, unless we are successful in adoption and deployment of technological alternatives that replace our tier one service offerings. Our failure to innovate, maintain technological advantage, or respond effectively and timely to transformational changes in technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If we are unable to attract and retain talented and experienced executives for key positions in our business, our business and our strategy execution can be adversely impacted. Our business success depends on contributions of senior management and key personnel. Our ability to attract, motivate and retain key senior management staff is conditioned on our ability to pay adequate compensation and incentives. We compete for top senior management candidates with other, often larger, companies that at times have access to greater resources. Our ability to attract qualified individuals for our senior management team is also impacted by our requirement that members of senior management sign non-compete agreements as a condition to joining TTEC. If we are not able to attract and retain talented and experienced executives, we would be unable to compete effectively and our growth may be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and prospects.. A large portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of clients and the loss of one or more of our clients could adversely affect our business. We rely on strategic, long-term relationships with large, global companies in targeted industries. As a result, we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from relatively few clients. Our five and ten largest clients collectively represented 35% and 49% of our revenue in 2017 while the largest client represented 9.0% of our revenue in 2017.. Although we have multiple engagements with all of our largest clients and all contracts are unlikely to terminate at the same time, the contracts with our five largest clients expire between 2018 and 2023 and there can be no assurance that these contracts will continue to be renewed at all or be renewed on favorable terms. The loss of all or part of a major client's business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, if the loss of revenue was not replaced with profitable business from other clients.. We serve clients in industries that have historically experienced a significant level of consolidation. If one of our clients is acquired (including by another of our clients) our business volume and revenue may materially decrease due to the termination or phase out of an existing client contract, volume discounts or other contract concessions which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our delivery model involves geographic concentration exposing us to significant operational risks. Our business model is dependent on our service customer engagement centers and enterprise support functions being located in low cost jurisdictions around the globe. We have on the ground presence in 24 countries, but our customer care and experience management delivery capacity and our back office functions are concentrated in the Philippines, Mexico, India, and Bulgaria and our technology solutions customer engagement centers are concentrated in a few locations in the United States. Natural disasters (floods, winds, and earthquakes), terrorist attacks, pandemics, large-scale utilities outages, telecommunication and transportation disruptions, labor or political unrest, and restriction on repatriation of funds at some of these locations may interrupt or limit our ability to operate or may increase our costs. Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans, while extensive, may not be effective, particularly if catastrophic events occur.. 9. Table of Contents. Our dependence on our customer engagement centers and enterprise services support functions in the Philippines, which is subject to frequent severe weather, natural disasters, and occasional security threats, represents a particular risk. For these and other reasons, our geographic concentration could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we procure business interruption insurance to cover some of these exposures, adequate insurance may not be available on an ongoing basis for a reasonable price.. Our growth of operations could strain our resources and cause our business to suffer. We plan to continue growing our business organically through expansion, sales efforts, and strategic acquisitions, while maintaining tight controls on our expenses and overhead. Lean overhead functions combined with focused growth may place a strain on our management systems, infrastructure and resources, resulting in internal control failures, missed opportunities, and staff attrition which could impact our business and results of operations.. Our profitability could suffer if our cost-management strategies are unsuccessful. Our ability to improve or maintain our profitability is dependent on our ability to engage in continuous management of our costs. Our cost management strategies include optimizing the alignment between the demand for our services and our resource capacity, including contact center utilization; the costs of service delivery; the cost of sales and general and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues, and the use of process automation for standard operating tasks. If we are not effective in managing our operating and administrative costs in response to changes in demand and pricing for our services, or if we are unable to absorb or pass on to our clients the increases in our costs of operations, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our financial results depend on our capacity utilization and our ability to forecast demand and make timely decisions about staffing levels, investments, and operating expenses. Our ability to meet our strategic growth and profitability objectives depends on how effectively we manage our contact center capacity against the fluctuating and seasonal client demands. Predicting customer demand and making timely staffing level decisions, investments, and other operating expenditure commitments in each of our delivery center locations is key to our successful execution and profitability maximization. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be able to achieve or maintain desired delivery center capacity utilization, because quarterly variations in client volumes, many of which are outside our control, can have a material adverse effect on our utilization rates. If our utilization rates are below expectations, because of our high fixed costs of operation, our financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected.. If we cannot recruit, hire, train, and retain qualified employees to respond to client demands, our business will be adversely affected. Our business is labor intensive and our ability to recruit and train employees with the right skills, at the right price point, and in the time frame required by our client commitments is critical to achieving our growth objective. Demand for qualified personnel with multiple language capabilities and fluency in English may exceed supply. Employees with specific backgrounds and skills may also be required to keep pace with evolving technologies and client demands. While we invest in employee retention, we continue to experience high employee turnover and are continuously recruiting and training replacement staff. Some of our facilities are located in geographies with low unemployment, which makes it costly to hire personnel, and in several jurisdictions, jurisdiction-specific wage regulations are changing rapidly making it difficult to recruit new employees at price points acceptable for our business model. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel at costs acceptable under our contracts, our costs associated with attracting, training, and retaining employees, and the challenge of managing the continuously changing and seasonal client demands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. Uncertainty related to cost of labor across various jurisdictions in the United States could adversely affect our results of operating. As a labor intensive business, we sign multi-year client contracts that are priced based on prevailing labor costs in jurisdictions where we deliver services. Yet, our business is confronted with a patchwork of ever changing minimum wage, mandatory time off, and rest and meal break laws at the state and local levels.  As these jurisdiction-specific laws change with little notice or grace period for transition, we often have no opportunity to adjust and change how we do business and pass cost increases to our clients.  The frequent changes in the law and inconsistencies in laws across different jurisdictions in the United States, may result in higher costs, lower contract profitability, higher turnover, and reduced operational efficiencies, which could in the aggregate have material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Turnover in senior sales staff and the length of time required for newly-hired sales staff to become productive could adversely impact our growth and our results of operations. It can take several months before newly-hired sales staff are productive in selling our service offerings, technology and consulting solutions to prospective clients. The long ramp period impacts the speed at which they can be effective in contributing to our growth. The cost of sales staff recruiting and their base compensation, therefore, cannot be immediately offset by the revenue such staff produce. Further, given the length of the ramp period, sometimes we cannot determine if new sales representatives would succeed until they have been employed for a period of time. If we cannot reliably limit turnover in our sales staff and speed up development of newly-hired sales staff to a productive level, or if we lose productive sales representatives in whom we have heavily invested, our future growth rates and revenue will suffer.. Our sales cycles for new client relationships and new lines of business with existing clients can be long, which results in a long lead time before we receive certain revenues. We often face a long selling cycle to secure contracts with new clients or contracts for new lines of business with existing clients. When we are successful in securing a new engagement, it is generally followed by a long implementation period when clients must give notice to incumbent service providers or transfer in-house operations to us. There may also be a long ramp up period before we commence our services, and for certain contracts we receive no revenue until we start performing the work. If we are not successful in obtaining contractual commitments after the initial prolonged sales cycle or in maintaining the contractual relationship for a period of time necessary to offset new project investment costs and appropriate return on that investment, the investments may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Contract terms typical in our industry can lead to volatility in our revenue and our margins. Many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. Although many of our contracts can be terminated for convenience, our relationships with our top five clients have ranged from 10 to 21 years with the majority of these clients having completed multiple contract renewals with us. Yet, our contracts do not guarantee a minimum revenue level or profitability, and clients may terminate them or materially reduce customer interaction volumes, which would reduce our earning potential. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and makes it harder to make projections.. Many of our contracts utilize performance pricing that link some of our fees to the attainment of performance criteria, which could increase the variability of our revenue and operating margin. These performance criteria can be complex, and at times they are not entirely within our control. If we fail to satisfy our contract performance metrics, our revenue under the contracts and our operating margin are reduced.. 11. Table of Contents. We may not always offset increased costs with increased fees under long-term contracts. The pricing and other terms of our client contracts, particularly our long-term contact center agreements, are based on estimates and assumptions we make at the time we enter into these contracts. These estimates reflect our best judgments regarding the nature of the engagement and our expected costs to provide the contracted services and could differ from actual results. Not all our larger long-term contracts allow for escalation of fees as our cost of operations increase and those that allow for such escalations do not always allow increases at rates comparable to increases that we experience due to rising minimum wage costs and related payroll cost increases. If we cannot negotiate long-term contract terms that provide for fee adjustments to reflect increases in our cost of service delivery, our business, financial conditions, and results of operation would be materially impacted.. Our contracts seldom address the impacts of currency fluctuation on our costs of delivery. As we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses may be incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for services. An increase in the value of certain currencies, such as U.S. or Australian dollar against the Philippine peso and India rupee, could increase costs for our delivery at offshore sites by increasing our labor and other costs that are denominated in local currencies. Our contractual provisions, cost management efforts, and currency hedging activities may not be able to offset the currency fluctuation impact, resulting in the decrease of the profitability of our contracts.. Our pricing depends on effectiveness of our forecasting of the level of effort. Pricing for our services in our technology and strategic consulting businesses is highly contingent on our ability to accurately forecast the level of effort and cost necessary to deliver our services, which is data dependent and could turn out to be materially inaccurate. The inaccurate level of effort in project estimates could yield lower profit margins or cause projects to become unprofitable, resulting in adverse impacts on our results of operations.. The new U.S. tax reform legislation and uncertainties of related interpretations may adversely affect our results of operations. The United States recently enacted  comprehensive tax reform legislation known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\") that, among other things, reduces the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and implements a territorial tax system, but imposes an alternative \"base erosion and anti-abuse tax\" (\"BEAT\"), an incremental tax on global intangible low taxed foreign income (\"GILTI\") as well as a one-time mandatory repatriation tax on accumulated foreign earnings on domestic corporations. The comprehensive impact of the BEAT and GILTI on TTEC is not yet clear and will depend on future tax regulatory guidance and actions the Company may take, as a result of the 2017 Tax Act.. There are a number of uncertainties and ambiguities as to the interpretation and application of many of the provisions in the 2017 Tax Act, such as for example, the impact of the BEAT on the deductibility of payments we routinely make to our foreign affiliates for cost of services delivered outside of the United States and sold to clients based in the United States. In the absence of guidance on these issues, we will use what we believe to be reasonable interpretations and assumptions in applying the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act for purposes of determining our income tax liability and results of operations.  Future guidance on the interpretations of the 2017 Tax Act that will be provided by the U.S. Department of Treasury or audit positions that may be taken by the Internal Revenue Service that differ from the interpretations and assumptions that we will reasonably make could have a material adverse effect on our overall effective tax rate, results of operations and financial condition.. Uncertainty of tax regulations in countries where we do business may affect our costs of operation. We operate in multiple countries through legal entity structures that optimize our operations and tax positions globally. We make our business decisions regarding entity capitalization and repatriation of capital based on the needs of the business and costs and tax impacts of such decisions. Corporate tax reform, base-erosion efforts and tax transparency continue to be high priorities in many tax jurisdictions where we have business operations. As a result, policies regarding corporate income and other taxes in numerous jurisdictions are under heightened scrutiny. Changes in the tax regulations in the countries where we currently operate could lead to higher taxation levels, higher costs of doing business, and labor uncertainties when employees' take-home pay is impacted by unexpected tax changes.. 12. Table of Contents. We face special risks associated with our business outside of the United States. An important component of our business strategy is service delivery outside of the United States and our continuing international expansion. In 2017 we derived approximately 44% of our revenue from operations outside of the United States. Conducting business abroad is subject to a variety of risks, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcurrency exchange rate fluctuations, restrictions on currency movement, and impact of international tax laws could adversely affect our results of operations, if we are forced to maintain assets in currencies other than the U.S. dollars, while our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlonger payment cycles and/or difficulties in accounts receivable collections particular to operations outside of the United States could impact our cash flows and results of operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpolitical and economic instability and unexpected changes in regulatory regimes could adversely affect our ability to deliver services overseas and our ability to repatriate cash;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinconsistent regulations, licensing and legal requirements may increase our cost of operations as we endeavor to comply with multiple, complex laws that differ from one country to another;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tterrorist attacks and civil unrests in some of the regions where we do business (e.g. tension in the Middle East, Latin America, and the Philippines, and terror attacks in Europe), and the resulting need for enhanced security measures may impact our ability to deliver services, threaten the safety of our employees, and increase our costs of operations; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tspecial challenges in managing risks inherent in international operations, such as unique and prescriptive labor rules, corrupt business environments, restrictive immigration and export control laws may cause an inadvertent violation of laws that we may not be able to immediately detect or correct.. While we monitor and endeavor to mitigate timely the relevant regulatory, geopolitical, and other risks related to our operations outside of the United States, we cannot assess with certainty what impact such risks are likely to have over time on our business, and we can provide no assurance that we will always be able to mitigate these risks successfully and avoid material impact to our business and results of operations.. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to expand and maintain our contact centers in countries with stable wage rates and find new \"near shore\" locations required by our clients.. Our business is labor-intensive and therefore cost of wages, benefits and related taxes constitute a large component of our operating expenses. As a result, expansion of our business is dependent upon our ability to maintain and expand our operations in cost-effective locations, in and outside of the United States. Most of our contact centers are located in jurisdictions subject to minimum wage regulations, which may result in increased wages in the future, thus impacting our profitability.. Our clients often dictate where they wish for us to locate the contact centers that serve their customers and 'near shore' jurisdictions located in close proximity to the United States have grown in popularity recently. There is no assurance that we will be able to find and secure locations suitable for contact center operations in 'near shore' jurisdictions which meet our cost-effectiveness and security standards. Our inability to expand our operations to such 'near shore' locations, however, may impact our ability to secure new and additional business from clients, and may impact our growth and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Restrictions on mobility of people across borders may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients. Our business depends on the ability of some of our employees to obtain the necessary visas and entry permits to do business in the countries where our clients and contact centers are located. In recent years, in response to terrorist attacks and global unrest, immigration authorities generally, and those in the United States in particular, have increased the level of scrutiny in granting such visas, and even imposed bans on immigration and commercial travel for citizens of certain countries. If further terrorist attacks occur or global unrest intensifies, we anticipate that these restrictions will further increase. Immigration and business entry rules outside of the United States may also require us to meet certain additional legal requirements as a condition to obtaining or maintaining visas. Furthermore, immigration laws in most countries where we do business are subject to legislative change and varying standards of application and enforcement due to political forces, economic conditions or other events unrelated to our operations. If we are unable to obtain the necessary visas for our personnel with need to travel to the United States or for our United States based employees who may need to travel to countries with newly restricted access; if the issuance of such visas is delayed or if the length of such visas is shortened, we may not be able to continue to provide services on a timely and cost-effective basis, receive revenues as early as expected or manage our customer engagement centers efficiently. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If the transfer pricing arrangements we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate, our tax liability may increase. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, marketing, sales, and delivery functions. U.S., Australian, Philippines and other transfer pricing regulations in other countries where we operate, require that cross-border transactions between affiliates be on arm's-length terms. We carefully consider the pricing among our subsidiaries to assure that they are at arm's-length. If tax authorities were to determine that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, we may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause material increase in our tax liability, thereby impacting our profitability and cash flows, and potentially resulting in a material adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition.. The recently enacted 2017 Tax Act in the U.S. may impact the transfer pricing arrangements we have with our cross-border affiliates, because of potential impact BEAT (base erosion and anti-abuse tax) may have on such payments. The comprehensive impact of the BEAT on TTEC is not yet clear and will depend on future tax regulatory guidance and actions the Company may take, as a result of the 2017 Tax Act. If the requirements of 2017 Tax Act and requirements of tax regulations in countries where we have subsidiaries do not reconcile, our overall tax liability and penalties resulting from transfer pricing arrangements may impact our profitability, effective tax rate and financial condition.. Our strategy of growing through acquisitions may impact our business in unexpected ways. Our growth strategy involves acquisitions that help us expand our service offerings and diversify our geographic footprint. We continuously evaluate acquisition opportunities, but there are no assurances that we will be able to identify acquisition targets that complement our strategy and are available at valuation levels accretive to our business.. Even if we are successful in acquiring, our acquisitions may subject our business to risks that may impact our results of operation:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to integrate acquired companies effectively and realize anticipated synergies and benefits from the acquisitions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiversion of management's attention to the integration of the acquired businesses at the expense of delivering results for the legacy business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to appropriately scale critical resources to support the business of the expanded enterprise and other unforeseen challenges of operating the acquired business as part of TTEC's operations;. 14. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to retain key employees of the acquired businesses and/or inability of such key employees to be effective as part of TTEC operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpact of liabilities of the acquired businesses undiscovered or underestimated as part of the acquisition due diligence;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to realize anticipated growth opportunities from a combined business, because existing and potential clients may be unwilling to consolidate business with a single supplier or to stay with the acquirer post acquisition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpacts of cash on hand and debt incurred to finance acquisitions, thus reducing liquidity for other significant strategic objectives; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinternal controls, disclosure controls, corruption prevention policies, human resources and other key policies and practices of the acquired companies may be inadequate or ineffective.. We have incurred and may in the future incur impairments to goodwill, long-lived assets or strategic investments. As a result of past acquisitions, as of December 31, 2017, we have approximately $206.7 million of goodwill and $92.1 million of intangible assets included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least once annually, and more often when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We perform an assessment of qualitative and quantitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the goodwill or intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. In the event that the book value of goodwill or intangible asset is impaired, such impairment would be charged to earnings in the period when such impairment is determined. We have recorded goodwill and intangible impairments in the past, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur impairment charges in the future that could have material adverse effects on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and we are not able to prevent or timely detect errors or fraud. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. As previously disclosed, in prior periods, our management had identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and has taken remedial actions that we believe remediate such material weaknesses. Although we improved our control environment in response to the previously identified material weaknesses, there can be no assurances that we will be able to prevent future control deficiencies, including material weaknesses, from occurring.. Any internal and disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Inherent limitations within a control system include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, any controls can be circumvented by individuals acting alone or in collusion with others to override controls. If additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements. These misstatements could result in restatements of our consolidated financial statements and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price.. Intellectual property infringement by us and by others may adversely impact our ability to innovate and compete. Our solutions could infringe intellectual property of others impacting our ability to deploy them with clients. From time to time, we and members of our supply chain receive assertions that our service offerings or technologies infringe on the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. While to date we have been successful in defending such claims and many of these claims are without basis, the claims could require us to cease activities, incur expensive licensing costs, or engage in costly litigation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operation.. 15. Table of Contents. Our intellectual property may not always receive favorable treatment from the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the European Patent Office or similar foreign intellectual property adjudication and registration agencies; and our \"patent pending\" intellectual property may not receive a patent or may be subject to prior art limitations.. The lack of legal system sophistication in certain countries where we do business or lack of commitment to protection of intellectual property rights, may prevent us from being able to defend our intellectual property and related technology against infringement by others, leading to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Increases in the cost of communication and data services or significant interruptions in such services could adversely affect our business. Our business is significantly dependent on telephone, internet and data service provided by various domestic and foreign communication companies. Any disruption of these services could adversely affect our business. We have taken steps to mitigate our exposure to service disruptions by investing in complex and multi-layered redundancies, and we can transition services among our different contact centers around the world. Despite these efforts, there can be no assurance, however, that the redundancies we have in place would be sufficient to maintain operations without disruption.. Our inability to obtain communication and data services at favorable rates could negatively affect our results of operations. Where possible, we have entered into long-term contracts with various providers to mitigate short term rate increases and fluctuations. There is no obligation, however, for the vendors to renew their contracts with us, or to offer the same or lower rates in the future, and such contracts are subject to termination or modification for various reasons outside of our control. A significant increase in the cost of communication services that is not recoverable through an increase in the price of our services could adversely affect our business.. Defects or errors within software could adversely affect our business.. The third-party software and systems that we use to conduct our business and serve our clients is highly complex and may, from time to time, contain design defects, coding errors or other software errors that may be difficult to detect or correct, and which are outside of our control. Although our commercial agreements may contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims and liabilities, these provisions may not effectively protect us against claims in all cases and in all jurisdictions. As a result, problems with the software and systems that we use may result in damages to our clients for which we are held responsible, or cause damage to our reputation, adversely affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by foreign currency exchange rate risk. Many contracts that we service from customer care contact centers based outside of the United States are typically priced, invoiced, and paid in U.S. and Australian dollars or Euros, while the costs incurred to deliver the services and operate contact centers are incurred in the functional currencies of the applicable operating subsidiary. The fluctuations between the currencies of the contract and operating currencies present foreign currency exchange risks. Furthermore, because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, but approximately 24% of our revenue is derived from contracts denominated in other currencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens significantly against foreign currencies.. While we hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully manage this foreign currency exchange risk and avoid adverse impacts on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Compliance with laws, including unexpected changes to such laws, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and foreign national, state and provincial authorities relating to confidential client and customer data,  customer communications, telemarketing practices, and licensed healthcare and financial services activities, among other areas. Costs and complexity of compliance with existing and future regulations could adversely affect our profitability. If we fail to comply with regulations relevant to our business, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, monetary damages and fines. Private lawsuits and enforcement actions by regulatory agencies may materially increase our costs of operations and impact our ability to serve our clients.. As we provide services to clients' customers residing in countries across the world, we are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as import/export controls, communication content requirements, trade restrictions and sanctions, tariffs, taxation, data privacy, labor relations, wages and severance, health care requirements, internal and disclosure control obligations, and immigration. Violations of these regulations could impact our reputation and result in financial liability, criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and breach of our contractual commitments.. Adverse changes in laws or regulations that impact our business may negatively affect the sale of our services, slow the growth of our operations, or mandate changes to how we deliver our services, including our ability to use offshore resources. These changes could threaten our ability to continue to serve certain markets.. The current trend to outsource customer care may not continue and the prices that clients are willing to pay for the services may diminish, adversely affecting our business. Our growth depends, in large part, on the willingness of our clients and potential clients to outsource customer care and management services to companies like TTEC. There can be no assurance that the customer care outsourcing trend will continue; and our clients and potential clients may elect to perform in-house customer care and management services that they currently outsource. Reduction in demand for our services and increased competition from other providers and in-house service alternatives would create pricing pressures and excess capacity that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Legislation discouraging offshoring of service by U.S. companies or making such offshoring difficult could significantly affect our business. A perceived association between offshore service providers and the loss of jobs in the United States has been a focus of political debate in recent years. As a result, current and prospective clients may be reluctant to hire offshore service providers like TTEC to avoid negative perceptions and regulatory scrutiny. If they seek customer care and management capacity onshore that was previously available to them through outsourcers outside of the United States, they may elect to perform these services in-house as a less expensive alternative to outsourcing the services onshore. Possible tax incentives for U.S. businesses to return offshored, including outsourced and offshored, services to the U.S. could also impact our clients' continuing interest in using our services.. Legislation aimed to expand protections for U.S. based customers from having their personal data accessible outside of the United States could also impact offshore outsourcing opportunities by requiring notice and consent as a condition for sharing personal identifiable information with service providers based outside of the United States. Any material changes in current trends among U.S. based clients to use services outsourced and delivered offshore would materially impact our business and results of operations.. Health epidemics could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results. Our contact centers typically seat hundreds of employees in one location. Accordingly, an outbreak of a contagious infection in one or more of the markets in which we do business may result in significant worker absenteeism, lower capacity utilization rates, voluntary or mandatory closure of our customer engagement centers, travel restrictions on our employees, and other disruptions to our business. Any prolonged or widespread health epidemic could severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, its financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. The volatility of our stock price may result in loss of investment. Our share price has been and may continue to be subject to substantial fluctuation. We believe that market prices of outsourced customer care management services stock in general have experienced volatility and such volatility will affect our stock price. As we continue to diversify our service offerings to include growth, technology and strategic consulting, our stock price volatility may stabilize or it may be further impacted by stock price fluctuations in these new industries. In addition to fluctuations specific to our industry and service offerings, we believe that various other factors such as general economic conditions, changes or volatility in the financial markets, and changing market condition for our clients could impact the valuation of our stock. The quarterly variations in our financial results, acquisition and divestiture announcements by us or our competitors, strategic partnerships and new service offering, our failure to meet our growth objectives or exceed our targets, and securities analysts' perception about our performance could cause the market price of our shares to fluctuate substantially in the future.. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer controls a  majority of our stock and has control over all matters requiring action by our stockholders. Kenneth D. Tuchman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, directly and beneficially owns approximately 69% of TTEC's common stock. As a result, Mr. Tuchman could and does exercise significant influence and control over our business practices and strategy, including the direction of our business and our dividend policy, and all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including the election of our entire Board of Directors and our capital structure. Further, a change in control of our company or significant capital transactions could not be effected without Mr. Tuchman's approval, even if such a change in control or other capital transactions could benefit our other stockholders."                                                                                                                                                          
