[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with the Company's business that could adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. Set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that the Company currently believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that could adversely affect the Company. Other events that the Company does not currently anticipate or that the Company currently deems immaterial also may affect results of operations and financial condition. Before making an investment in the Company's securities, investors should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below, together with the other information in this Report, including the section entitled \"Forward-Looking Statements,\" \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the other reports and materials filed by the Company with the SEC.. Sales Force Factors. The Company's products are primarily marketed and sold through the \"direct-to-consumer\" method of distribution, in which products are marketed and sold to consumers, without the use of retail establishments, by a sales force made up of independent contractors. This distribution system depends upon the successful addition, activation and retention of a large force of sales personnel to grow and compensate for a high turnover rate. The addition and retention of sales force members is dependent upon the competitive environment among direct-to-consumer companies and upon the general labor market, unemployment levels, general economic conditions, demographic and cultural changes in the workforce and the level of penetration of the Company's sales force in the geographies in which it operates. The activation of the sales force is dependent, in part, upon the effectiveness of compensation and promotional programs of the Company, the competitiveness of the same compared with other direct-to-consumer companies, the introduction of new products and the ability to advance through the sales force structure.. The Company's sales are directly tied to the activity levels of its sales force, which is in large part a temporary working activity for many sales force members. Activity levels may be affected by the degree to which a market is penetrated by the presence of the Company's sales force, the amount of average sales per order, the amount of sales per sales force member, the mix of high-margin and low-margin products sold at group demonstrations and elsewhere, and the activities and actions of the Company's product line and channel competitors. In addition, the Company's sales force members may be affected by initiatives undertaken by the Company to grow its revenue base or change its cost base that may lead to the inaccurate perception that the independent sales force system is at risk of being phased out or that the Company intends to exit markets.. International Operations. A significant portion of the Company's sales and profit come from its international operations. Although these operations are geographically dispersed, which partially mitigates the risks associated with operating in particular countries, the Company is subject to the usual risks associated with international operations. Amongst others, these risks include local political and economic environments, adverse new tax regulations, potentially burdensome privacy protocols, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation, and relations between the U.S. and foreign governments.. 7. The Company has derived for a number of years over 90 percent of its net sales from operations outside the United States. As a result, movement in exchange rates has had and may continue to have a significant impact on the Company's earnings, cash flows and financial position. The Company's most significant exposures are to the Brazilian real, Chinese renminbi, euro, Indonesian rupiah and Mexican peso. Business units in which the Company generated at least $100 million of sales in 2017 included Brazil, China, Fuller Mexico, Germany, Indonesia, Tupperware Mexico and Tupperware United States and Canada. Of these units, sales by China and Tupperware United States and Canada exceeded $200 million, while sales in Brazil exceeded $300 million. Although the Company's currency risk is partially mitigated by the natural hedge arising from its local product sourcing in many markets, a strengthening U.S. dollar generally has a negative impact on the Company. In response to this fact, the Company continues to implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce the exposure to fluctuations in earnings associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company generally does not seek to hedge the impact of currency fluctuations on the translated value of the sales, profit or cash flow generated by its operations. Some of the hedging strategies implemented have a positive or negative impact on cash flows as foreign currencies fluctuate versus the U.S. dollar. There can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations and related hedging activities will not have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition.. Another risk associated with the Company's international operations is restrictions foreign governments may impose on currency remittances. Due to the possibility of government restrictions on transfers of cash out of countries and control of exchange rates and currency convertibility, the Company may not be able to immediately access its cash at the exchange rate used to translate its financial statements. As of the end of 2017, this was a particular issue in China and Korea. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion regarding this risk.. Legal and Regulatory Issues. The Company's business may also be affected by actions of domestic and foreign governments to restrict the activities of direct-to-consumer companies for various reasons, including a limitation on the ability of direct-to-consumer companies to operate without the involvement of a traditional retail channel. Foreign governments may also introduce other forms of protectionist legislation, such as limitations on the products which can be produced locally or requirements that non-domestic companies doing or seeking to do business place a certain percentage of ownership of legal entities in the hands of local nationals to protect the commercial interests of its citizens. Customs laws, tariffs, import duties, export and import quotas and restrictions on repatriation of foreign earnings and/or other methods of accessing cash generated internationally, may negatively affect the Company's local or corporate operations. Governments may seek either to impose taxes on independent sales force members, to classify independent sales force members as employees of direct-to-consumer companies with whom they may be associated, triggering employment-related taxes on the part of the direct-to-consumer companies, or to impose registration requirements that could impact prospects' willingness to join the sales force. Additionally, some governments prohibit or impose limitations on the requirement to purchase demonstration products upon joining a direct-to-consumer business and/or the types of activities for which a direct-to-consumer sales force can be compensated. Additionally, the U.S. government may impose restrictions on the Company's ability to engage in business in other countries in connection with the foreign policy of the United States.. Product Safety. Certain of the materials used in the Company's product lines may give rise to concerns of consumers based upon scientific theories which are espoused from time to time, including the risk of certain materials leaching out of plastic containers used for their intended purposes or the ingredients used in cosmetics, personal care or nutritional products causing harm to human health. This includes polycarbonate, which contains the chemical Bisphenol A, and polyethersulfone, which contains the chemical Bisphenol S. It is the Company's policy to market products in each of its business units containing only those materials or ingredients that are approved by relevant regulatory authorities for contact with food or skin or for ingestion by consumers, as applicable.. 8. Senior Leadership Team; Management Succession. The Company's success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of qualified personnel at all levels, including its senior management team and other key employees.  Their motivation, skills, experience, contacts and industry knowledge significantly benefit the Company's operations and administration.  The failure to attract, motivate and retain members of the senior management team could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  In February 2018, the Company announced that, effective May 9, 2018, Patricia A. Stitzel, its current President and Chief Operating Officer, will become the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and E.V. Goings, its current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will retire as Chief Executive Officer and serve as Executive Chairman of the Company, consistent with a succession strategy plan previously approved by the Company's Board of Directors.  Any significant leadership change or senior management transition involves inherent risk and any failure to ensure a smooth transition could hinder the Company's strategic planning, execution and future performance.  A change in the senior management team may create uncertainty among investors, employees and others concerning the Company's future direction and performance.  Any disruption in the Company's operations or uncertainty could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations.. Technology and Cyber-Security. The Company relies extensively on information technology systems to conduct its business, some of which are managed by third-party service providers. These systems include, but are not limited to, programs and processes relating to internal communications and communications with other parties, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, receiving orders and shipping product to customers, billing customers and receiving and applying payments, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, collecting and storing certain customer, employee, investor, and other stakeholder information and personal data, and other processes necessary to manage the Company's business.  Increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of the information technology systems, networks, and services of the Company, its customers and other business partners, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the data of the Company, its customers and other business partners. As a result, the Company's information technology systems, networks or service providers could be damaged or cease to function properly or the Company could suffer a loss or disclosure of business, personal or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, including catastrophic events, power outages and security breaches. Although the Company has business continuity plans in place, if these plans do not provide effective alternative processes on a timely basis, the Company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage or conduct its operations, which may adversely affect its business.  The Company may need to expend additional resources in the future to continue to protect against, or to address problems caused by, any business interruptions or data security breaches.  Any business interruptions or data security breaches, including cyber-security breaches resulting in private data disclosure, could result in lawsuits or regulatory proceedings, damage the Company's reputation or adversely impact the Company's results of operations and cash flows. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that could cover some of these types of issues, the coverage has limitations and includes deductibles such that it may not be adequate to offset losses incurred.. General Business Factors. The Company's business can be affected by a wide range of factors that affect other businesses. Weather, natural disasters, strikes, epidemics/pandemics, political instability, terrorist activity and public scrutiny of the direct-to-consumer channel, may have a significant impact on the willingness or ability of consumers to attend parties or otherwise purchase the Company's products. The supply and cost of raw materials, particularly petroleum and natural gas-based resins, may have an impact on the availability or cost of the Company's plastic products. The Company is also subject to frequent product counterfeiting and other intellectual property infringement, which may be difficult to police and prevent, depending upon the ability to identify infringers and the availability and/or enforceability of intellectual property rights. Other risks, as discussed under the sub-heading \"Forward-Looking Statements\" contained in Part II, Item 7A of this Report, may be relevant to performance as well."
