[1] "Item 1A - Risk Factors. Set forth below is a summary of certain material risks related to an investment in our securities, which should be considered carefully in evaluating such an investment. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause the Company's actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, results of operations and financial condition. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and common stock price. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations.. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company's financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Please also see \"Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosures\" in the section immediately preceding Item 1 of this Report.. Risks Related to Liquidity. We depend upon the availability of capital under our revolving credit facility and term loan to finance our operations. Any additional financing that we may need may not be available on favorable terms or at all.. In addition to cash flow generated from operations, we finance our operations with a revolving credit facility (the \"Credit Facility\") provided by Bank of America, as Agent, Sole Lead Arranger and Sole Bookrunner  and our term loan (the \"Term Loan Due 2019\") provided by Crystal Financial LLC (\"Crystal\"), as Agent, Sole Lead Arranger and Sole Bookrunner. If we are unable to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the Credit Facility or the Term Loan Due 2019 (collectively, the \"Loan Documents\") and are unable to obtain a waiver under the applicable Loan Documents, Bank of America or Crystal, as applicable, may declare the outstanding borrowings under the applicable Loan Documents immediately due and payable. Such an event would have an immediate and material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We would be required to obtain additional financing from other sources, and we cannot predict whether or on what terms, if any, additional financing might be available. If we are required to seek additional financing and are unable to obtain it, we may have to change our business and capital expenditure plans, which may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the debt under the Loan Documents could make it more difficult to obtain other debt financing in the future, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt.. The Loan Documents contain financial and other covenants that we are obligated to maintain. If we violate any of these covenants, we will be in default under the applicable Loan Documents.  These covenants include restrictions that prohibit or otherwise limit our ability to pay dividends, incur additional indebtedness, acquire assets or engage in certain other types of transactions, and also require that we maintain certain financial ratios and EBITDA levels during specified periods.  If a default occurs and is not timely cured or waived, Bank of America or Crystal, as applicable, could seek remedies against us, including termination or suspension of obligations to make loans and issue letters of credit and acceleration of amounts due under the applicable Loan Documents. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future. The Credit Facility is asset based and can only be drawn down in an amount to which eligible collateral exists and can be negatively impacted by extended collection of accounts receivable, unexpectedly high product returns and slow moving inventory, among other factors. As of the date of this Report, we were in compliance with our covenants under the Loan Documents.. The Credit Facility and Term Loans provide our lenders with a first-priority lien against substantially all of our working capital assets, including trade accounts receivable, inventories, and intellectual property and contains certain restrictions on our ability to take certain actions.. The Credit Facility and Term Loan Due 2019 contain certain financial covenants and other restrictions that limit our ability, among other things, to incur certain additional indebtedness; pay dividends and repurchase stock; make certain investments and other payments; enter into certain mergers or consolidations; engage in sale and leaseback transactions and transactions with affiliates; and encumber and dispose of assets.. In addition, we have granted the lenders a first-priority lien against substantially all of our assets, including trade accounts receivable, inventories and our intellectual property. Failure to comply with the operating restrictions or financial covenants could result in a default which could cause the lenders to accelerate the timing of payments and exercise their lien on substantially all of our assets.. 8. If suppliers, customers, landlords, employees or other stakeholders lose confidence in our business, it may be more difficult for us to operate and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If suppliers, customers, landlords, employees or other stakeholders have doubts regarding our ability to continue as a going concern, this could result in further loss of confidence, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our ability to operate. Concerns about our financial condition may cause our suppliers and other counterparties to tighten credit terms or cease doing business with us altogether, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Operations. We depend upon the success and availability of third-party gaming platforms and software to drive sales of our headset products.. The performance of our headset business is affected by the continued success of third-party gaming platforms, such as Microsoft's Xbox consoles and Sony's PlayStation® consoles, as well as video games developed by such manufacturers and other third-party publishers. Our business could suffer if any of these parties fail to continue to drive the success of these platforms, develop new or enhanced videogame platforms, develop popular game and entertainment titles for current or future generation platforms or produce and timely release sufficient quantities of such consoles. For example, DFC Intelligence forecasts' estimates of future cumulative new generation console has declined since the debut of the new-gen consoles in 2013, which, if such estimates are accurate, may negatively impact our future headset sales or otherwise negatively impact our business.  Further, if a platform is withdrawn from the market or fails to sell, we may be forced to liquidate inventories relating to that platform or accept returns resulting in significant losses.. In order for certain of our headsets to connect to the Xbox One advanced features and controls, a proprietary computer chip or wireless module is required. As a result, with respect to our products designed for the Xbox One, we are currently reliant on Microsoft or their designated supplier to provide us with sufficient quantities. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of these headset adapters or chips, sales of such Xbox One headsets and consequently our revenues would be adversely affected.. In addition, we are licensed and approved by Microsoft to develop and sell Xbox One compatible audio products pursuant to a license agreement under which we have the right to manufacture (including through third party manufacturers), market and sell audio products for the Xbox One video game console (the \"Xbox One Agreement\"). Our Xbox One headsets are dependent on this license. Microsoft has the right to terminate the Xbox One Agreement under certain circumstances set forth in the agreement. Should the Xbox One Agreement be terminated, our headset offerings may be limited, thereby significantly reducing our revenues.. Accordingly, Microsoft, Sony and other third-party gaming platform manufacturers may control our ability to manufacture headsets compatible with their platforms, and could cause unanticipated delays in the release of our products as well as increases to projected development, manufacturing, licensing, marketing or distribution costs, any of which could negatively impact our business.. Our Turtle Beach brand faces significant competition from other consumer electronics companies and this competition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We compete with other producers of personal computers and video game console headsets, including the video game console manufacturers. Our competitors may spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay higher fees to licensors for motion picture, television, sports, music and character properties, or develop more commercially successful products for the personal computer or video game platforms than we do. In addition, competitors with large product lines and popular products, in particular the video game console manufacturers, typically have greater leverage with retailers, distributors and other customers, who may be willing to promote products with less consumer appeal in return for access to those competitors' more popular products.. In the event that a competitor reduces prices, we could be forced to respond by lowering our prices to remain competitive. If we are forced to lower prices, we may be required to \"price protect\" products that remain unsold in our customers' inventories at the time of the price reduction. Price protection results in our issuing a credit to our customers in the amount of the price reduction for each unsold unit in that customer's inventory. Our price protection policies, which are customary in the industry, can have a major impact on our sales and profitability.. In addition, if console manufacturers implement new technologies, through hardware or software, which would cause our headsets to become incompatible with that hardware manufacturer's console, there could be unanticipated delays in the release of our products as well as increases to projected development, manufacturing, marketing or distribution costs, any of which could harm our business and financial results.. 9. Further, new and emerging technologies and alternate platforms for gaming, such as mobile devices and virtual reality devices, could make the consoles for which our headsets are designed less attractive or, in time, obsolete, which could require us to transition our business model such as develop products for other gaming platforms.. The industries in which we operate are subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change, and if we do not adapt to, and appropriately allocate our resources among, emerging technologies, our revenues could be negatively affected.. We must make substantial product development and other investments to align our product portfolio and development efforts in response to market changes in the gaming industry. We must anticipate and adapt our products to emerging technologies in order to keep those products competitive. When we choose to incorporate a new technology into our products or to develop a product for a new platform or operating system, we are often required to make a substantial investment prior to the introduction of the product. If we invest in the development of a new technology or for a new platform that does not achieve significant commercial success, our revenues from those products likely will be lower than anticipated and may not cover our costs.. Further, our competitors may adapt to an emerging technology more quickly or effectively than we do, creating products that are technologically superior to ours, more appealing to consumers, or both. If, on the other hand, we elect not to pursue the development of products incorporating a new technology or for new platforms that achieve significant commercial success, our revenues could also be adversely affected. It may take significant time and resources to shift product development resources to that technology or platform and it may be more difficult to compete against existing products incorporating that technology or for that platform. Any failure to successfully adapt to, and appropriately allocate resources among, emerging technologies could harm our competitive position, reduce our share and significantly increase the time it takes us to bring popular products to market.. There are numerous steps required to develop a product from conception to commercial introduction and to ensure timely shipment to retail customers, including designing, sourcing and testing the electronic components, receiving approval of hardware and other third-party licensors, factory availability and manufacturing and designing the graphics and packaging. Any difficulties or delays in the product development process will likely result in delays in the contemplated product introduction schedule. It is common in new product introductions or product updates to encounter technical and other difficulties affecting manufacturing efficiency and, at times, the ability to manufacture the product at all. Although these difficulties can be corrected or improved over time with continued manufacturing experience and engineering efforts, if one or more aspects necessary for the introduction of products are not completed as scheduled, or if technical difficulties take longer than anticipated to overcome, the product introductions will be delayed, or in some cases may be terminated. No assurances can be given that our products will be introduced in a timely fashion, and if new products are delayed, our sales and revenue growth may be limited or impaired.. Our business could be adversely affected by significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates.. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency transaction exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro and British Pound. Any significant change in the value of currencies of the countries in which we do business relative to the value of the U.S. dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure. Additionally, we are subject to foreign exchange translation risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. The translation risk is primarily concentrated in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British Pound. As the U.S. dollar fluctuates against other currencies in which we transact business, revenue and income can be impacted.. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a few large customers, and the loss of any such customer, or a significant reduction in purchases by such customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. During 2017, our three largest individual customers accounted for approximately 43% of our gross sales in the aggregate. The loss of, or financial difficulties experienced by, any of these or any of our other significant customers, including as a result of the bankruptcy of a customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We do not have long-term agreements with these or other significant customers and our agreements with these customers do not require them to purchase any specific amount of products. All of our customers generally purchase from us on a purchase order basis. As a result, agreements with respect to pricing, returns, cooperative advertising or special promotions, among other things, are subject to periodic negotiation with each customer. No assurance can be given that these or other customers will continue to do business with us or that they will maintain their historical levels of business. In addition, the uncertainty of product orders can make it difficult to forecast our sales and allocate our resources in a manner consistent with actual sales, and our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future sales. If our expectations regarding future. 10. sales are inaccurate, we may be unable to reduce costs in a timely manner to adjust for sales shortfalls. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by a significant customer could increase our exposure to uncollectible receivables and the risk that losses from uncollected receivables exceed the reserves we have set aside in anticipation of this risk.. The manufacture, supply and shipment of our products are dependent upon a limited number of third parties, and our success is dependent upon the ability of these parties to manufacture, supply and ship sufficient quantities of their product components to us in a timely fashion, as well as the continued viability and financial stability of these third-parties.. Because we rely on a limited number of manufacturers and suppliers for our products, we may be materially and adversely affected by the failure of any of those manufacturers and suppliers to perform as expected or supply us with sufficient quantities of their product components to ensure consumer availability of our own products. Our suppliers' ability to supply products to us is also subject to a number of risks, including the availability of raw materials, their financial instability, the destruction of their facilities, or work stoppages. Any shortage of raw materials or components or an inability to control costs associated with manufacturing could increase our costs or impair our ability to ship orders in a timely and cost-efficient manner. As a result, we could experience cancellations of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in our prices and margins, any of which could harm our financial performance and results of operations.. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such manufacturers and suppliers will not refuse to supply us at prices we deem acceptable, independently market their own competing products in the future, or otherwise discontinue their relationships with or support of us. Our failure to maintain these existing manufacturing and supplier relationships, or to establish new relationships on similar terms in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. In particular, certain of our products have a number of components and subassemblies produced by outside suppliers. In addition, for certain of these items, we qualify only a single source of supply with long lead times, which can magnify the risk of shortages or result in excess supply and also decreases our ability to negotiate price with our suppliers. Also, if we experience quality problems with suppliers, then our production schedules could be significantly delayed or costs significantly increased, which could have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position.. In addition, the ongoing effectiveness of our supply chain is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties shipping products and materials to and from our warehouse facilities and other locations. If we encounter problems with these shipments, our ability to meet retailer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. We have experienced some of these problems in the past and we cannot assure you that we will not experience similar problems in the future.. Our net sales and operating income fluctuate on a seasonal basis and decreases in sales or margins during peak seasons could have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations.. Historically, a majority of our annual revenues have been generated during the holiday season of September to December. If we do not accurately forecast demand for particular products, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays. Any shortfall in net sales during this period would cause our annual results of operations to suffer significantly.. Demand for our products depends on many factors such as consumer preferences and the introduction or adoption of game platforms and related content, and can be difficult to forecast. If we misjudge the demand for our products, we could face the following problems in our operations, each of which could harm our operating results:. • If our forecasts of demand for products are too high, we may accumulate excess inventories of products, which could lead to markdown allowances or write-offs affecting some or all of such excess inventories. We may also have to adjust the prices of our existing products to reduce such excess inventories;. • If demand for specific products increases beyond what we forecast, our suppliers and third-party manufacturers may not be able to increase production quickly enough to meet the demand. Our failure to meet market demand may lead to missed opportunities to increase our base of gamers, damage our relationships with retailers or harm our business;. • The on-going console transition increases the likelihood that we could fail to accurately forecast demand for our new generation console headsets and our existing headsets; and. • Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand could result in increased manufacturing errors, as well as higher component, manufacturing and shipping costs, all of which could reduce our profit margins and harm our relationships with retailers and consumers.. 11. Loss of our key management and other personnel could impact our business.. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. In addition, competition for skilled and non-skilled employees among companies like ours is intense, and the loss of skilled or non-skilled employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional skilled and non-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully, develop new products, attract customers and meet customer shipments.. If we are unable to continue to develop innovative and popular headset products, or if our design and marketing efforts do not effectively raise the recognition and reputation of our Turtle Beach brand, we may not be able to successfully implement our headset growth strategy.. We believe that our ability to extend the recognition and favorable perception of our Turtle Beach brand is critical to implement our headset growth strategy, which includes further establishing our position in existing gaming headsets, developing a strong position in new console headsets, expanding beyond existing console, PC and mobile applications to new technology applications, accelerating our international growth and expanding complementary product categories. To extend the reach of our Turtle Beach brand, we believe we must devote significant time and resources to headset product design, marketing and promotions. These expenditures, however, may not result in a sufficient increase in net sales to cover such costs.. Future transitions in console platforms may adversely affect our headset business.. When new console platforms are announced or introduced into the market, consumers have historically reduced their purchases of game console peripherals and accessories, including headsets, for old generation console platforms in anticipation of new platforms becoming available. During these console transition periods, sales of gaming console headsets such as those sold by us, related to old generation consoles slow or decline until new platforms are introduced and achieve wide consumer acceptance, which we cannot guarantee. This decrease or decline may not be offset by increased sales of products for the new console platforms. Over time as the old generation platform user base declines, products for the old platforms are typically discontinued which can result in lower margins, excess inventory, excess parts, or similar costs related to end of life of a product model.  In addition, as a third party gaming headset company, we are reliant on working with the console manufacturers for our headsets to be compatible with any new console platforms, which if not done on a timely basis may adversely affect sales. Sony and Microsoft may make changes to their platforms that impact how headset connect with or work with the new consoles which could create a disruption to consumer buying behavior and/or product life-cycles.. As console hardware moves through its life cycle, hardware manufacturers typically enact price reductions, and decreasing prices may put downward pressure on prices for products for such platforms. During platform transitions, we may simultaneously incur costs both in continuing to develop and market new products for prior-generation video game platforms, which may not sell at premium prices, and also in developing products for current-generation platforms, which will not generate immediate or near-term revenue. As a result, our operating results during platform transitions are more volatile and more difficult to predict than during other times.. Further, technological and other developments may in the future accelerate the frequency of such console transitions resulting in such disruption occurring more frequently.  For example, Sony and Microsoft have announced hardware upgrades to the current console generations with the PS®4 Pro and Xbox One X, respectively.  In addition, competing technologies such as tablet-based gaming and virtual reality may result in further disruption to the overall console gaming market.. We are party to ongoing stockholder litigation, and in the future could be party to additional stockholder litigation, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. We have had, and may continue to have, actions brought against us by stockholders in connection with the merger, past transactions, changes in our stock price or other matters. Any such claims, whether or not resolved in our favor, could divert our management and other resources from the operation of our business and otherwise result in unexpected and substantial expenses that would adversely and materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results. For example, and as further described in Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings,\" and Note 13, \"Commitments and Contingencies,\" we are involved in legal proceedings related to the merger of VTBH and Paris Acquisition Corp. involving certain of our stockholders, including the holder of VTBH's Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock, (the \"Series B Holder\"), filing a complaint in New York state court alleging breach of contract against VTBH and seeking a declaratory judgment that he is entitled to damages and specific performance, including the redemption of his stock. The redemption value of VTBH's Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock was $18.9 million as of December 31, 2017.. 12. If we are unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data or breaches of security, our operations could be disrupted, our reputation may be damaged, and we may be financially liable for damages.. We rely heavily on information systems to manage our operations, including a full range of retail, financial, sourcing and merchandising systems. We regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems, as well as leverage new technologies to support our growth strategies. In addition, we have implemented enterprise-wide initiatives that are intended to standardize business processes and optimize performance. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or integrating them with current systems or the failure to implement our initiatives in an orderly and timely fashion could result in additional investment of time and resources, which could impair our ability to improve existing operations and support future growth, and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business.. The reliability and capacity of our information systems are critical. Despite preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time-to-time to damage or interruption from, among other things, natural disasters, technical malfunctions, inadequate systems capacity, human error, power outages, computer viruses and security breaches. Any disruptions affecting our information systems could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, any failure to maintain adequate system security controls to protect our computer assets and sensitive data, including associate and client data, from unauthorized access, disclosure or use could damage our reputation with our associates and our clients, exposing us to financial liability, legal proceedings (such as class action lawsuits), and regulatory action. While we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. As a result, we may not be able to immediately detect any security breaches, which may increase the losses that we would suffer. Finally, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends, in part, on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans.. Our reliance on information systems and other technology also gives rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, as security threats continue to evolve we may need to invest additional resources to protect the security of our systems.. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by global business, political, operational, financial and economic conditions.. We face business, political, operational, financial and economic risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • trade restrictions, higher tariffs, currency fluctuations or the imposition of additional regulations relating to import or export of our products, especially in China, where all of our Turtle Beach products are manufactured, which could force us to seek alternate manufacturing sources or increase our costs;. • difficulties obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses, and compliance with foreign laws, which could halt, interrupt or delay our operations if we cannot obtain such approvals, permits and licenses;. • difficulties encountered by our international distributors or us in staffing and managing foreign operations or international sales, including higher labor costs;. • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels;. • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable;. • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our net sales and results of operations; and. • natural disasters.. Any of these factors could reduce our net sales, decrease our gross margins, increase our expenses or reduce our profitability. Should we establish our own operations in international territories where we currently utilize a distributor, we will become subject to greater risks associated with operating outside of the United States.. The electronics industry in general has historically been characterized by a high degree of volatility and is subject to substantial and unpredictable variations resulting from changing business cycles. Our operating results will be subject to fluctuations based on general economic conditions, in particular conditions that impact discretionary consumer spending. The audio products sector of the electronics industry has and may continue to experience a slowdown in sales, which adversely. 13. impacts our ability to generate revenues and impacts the results of our future operations. A lack of available credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our commercial customers to finance purchases and operations and could result in an absence of orders or spending for our products as well as create supplier disruptions. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of any adverse economic conditions and disruptions in financial markets and the effects they will have on our business and its financial condition.. Further, Turtle Beach products are manufactured in China for export to the United States and worldwide. As a result of opposition to policies of the Chinese government and China's growing trade surpluses with the United States, there has been, and in the future may be, opposition to the extension of normal trade relations (\"NTR\") status for China. The loss of NTR status for China, changes in current tariff structures or adoption in the United States of other trade policies adverse to China could increase our manufacturing expenses and make it more difficult for us to manufacture our products in China.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we evaluate our systems and processes and test our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm, as applicable, to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions, investigations by the Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC (\"NASDAQ\"), the SEC or other regulatory authorities, or shareholder litigation.. In addition, failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain a system of internal controls that fully complies with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or that our management and independent registered public accounting firm will continue to conclude that our internal controls are effective.. We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision of our Chief Executive Officer (our principal executive officer, or PEO) and our Chief Financial Officer (our principal financial officer, or PFO), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon that evaluation, our PEO and PFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act, were effective as of December 31, 2017.  However, because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.. The affirmative vote in the United Kingdom to withdraw from the European Union may adversely affect our business.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (\"UK\") held a referendum in which voters approved a potential exit from the European Union (\"EU\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" As a result of the referendum, the UK is expected to exit the EU in March 2019. The Brexit vote, and the UK's expected exit from the EU, may result in regulatory uncertainty throughout the region and could adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic conditions in the UK, the Eurozone, the EU and elsewhere. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on business activity in the UK, the Eurozone, or the EU.. The uncertainty concerning terms of the exit could also have a negative impact on the growth of the UK and/or EU economies and cause greater volatility in the pound sterling, euro and/or other currencies.. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property and other Legal and Regulatory Matters. Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if our products are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others.. Other companies and our competitors may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. Although we do not believe that our products infringe the proprietary rights of any third parties, there can be no assurance that infringement or other legal claims will not be asserted. 14. against us or that we will not be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The electronics industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, resulting in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs or a diversion of our resources. An adverse result from intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following:. • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and/or. • redesign products or services that incorporate the disputed technology.. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and shipment delays and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may be inadequate to insure us for all liability that may be imposed.. In addition, it is possible that our customers or end users may seek indemnity from us in the event that our products are found or alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim for indemnity could result in substantial expenses to us that could harm our operating results.. If we are unable to obtain and maintain intellectual property rights and/or enforce those rights against third parties who are violating those rights, our business could suffer.. We rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets and trade dress to protect our Turtle Beach brand name, reputation, product appearance and technology and our proprietary rights in our HyperSound technology. Although we have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with selected parties with whom we conduct business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information, these contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of that intellectual property or deter independent third-party development of similar technologies. Monitoring the unauthorized use of proprietary technology and trademarks is costly, and any dispute or other litigation, regardless of outcome, may be costly and time consuming and may divert the attention of management and key personnel from our business operations. The steps taken by us may not prevent unauthorized use of proprietary technology or trademarks. Many features of our products are not protected by patents; and as a consequence, we may not have the legal right to prevent others from reverse engineering or otherwise copying and using these features in competitive products. If we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could adversely affect our financial results.. We are susceptible to counterfeiting of our products, which may harm our reputation for producing high-quality products and force us to incur expenses in enforcing our intellectual property rights. Such claims and lawsuits can be expensive to resolve, require substantial management time and resources, and may not provide a satisfactory or timely result, any of which may harm our results of operations. As some of our products are sold internationally, we are also dependent on the laws of a range of countries to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. These laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States.. Further, we are party to licenses that grant us rights to intellectual property, including trademarks, which are necessary or useful to our Turtle Beach business. One or more of our licensors may allege that we have breached our license agreement with them, and seek to terminate our license. If successful, this could result in our loss of the right to use the licensed intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our technologies or products, as well as harm our competitive business position and our business prospects.. Our success also depends in part on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection of our technology, particularly our patents. There is no guarantee any patent be granted on any patent application that we have filed or may file. Claims allowed from existing or pending patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to protect the economic value of our technologies. Further, any patent that we may obtain will expire, and it is possible that it may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition could be harmed.. 15. We are dependent upon third-party intellectual property to manufacture some of our products.. The performance of certain technology used in new generation consoles, such as integrated voice and chat audio from the Xbox One, is improved by a licensed component to ensure compatibility with our products.. While we currently believe that we have the necessary licenses, or can obtain the necessary licenses, in order to produce compatible products, there is no guarantee that our licenses will be renewed or granted in the first instance. Moreover, if these first parties enter into license agreements with companies other than us for their \"closed systems\" or if we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of these headset adapters or chips, we would be placed at a competitive disadvantage.. Our products may be subject to warranty claims, product liability and product recalls.. We may be subject to product liability or warranty claims that could result in significant direct or indirect costs, or we could experience greater returns from retailers than expected, which could harm our net sales. The occurrence of any quality problems due to defects in our products could make us liable for damages and warranty claims in excess of any existing reserves. In addition to the risk of direct costs to correct any defects, warranty claims, product recalls or other problems, any negative publicity related to the perceived quality of our products could also affect our brand image, decrease retailer and distributor demand and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We could incur unanticipated expenses in connection with warranty or product liability claims relating to a recall of one or more of our products, which could require significant expenditures to defend.  Additionally, we may be required to comply with governmental requirements to remedy the defect and/or notify consumers of the problem that could lead to unanticipated expense, and possible product liability litigation against a customer or us.  As of December 31, 2017 and the date of this Report, the Company has not received notice of any lawsuits against the Company in connection with any recall actions.. Changes in laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement could adversely impact our financial performance and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies.. New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, may create uncertainty for public companies, increase our cost of doing business and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. This could include, among other things, compliance costs and enforcement under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"). For example, under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has adopted additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain \"conflict minerals\" for issuers for which such \"conflict minerals\" are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. The metals covered by the rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. Our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. The rules require us to conduct a reasonable country of origin inquiry to determine if we know or have reason to believe any of the minerals used in the production process may have originated from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country. If we are not able to determine the minerals did not originate from a covered country or conclude that there is no reason to believe that the minerals used in the production process may have originated in a covered country, we would be required to perform supply chain due diligence on members of our supply chain. Global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these new requirements could be substantial. These new requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Compliance costs such as these could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed laws, regulations, standards and rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Any such new or changed laws, regulations, standards and rules may be subject to varying interpretations and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed.. The current administration has called for substantial change to fiscal and tax policies, which include comprehensive tax reform and may include changes to the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and related or similar regulations. The \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\"enacted in December 2017, reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018. We cannot predict whether in total we benefit from, or are negatively affected by, the changes.. 16. Our HyperSound technology is subject to government regulation, which could lead to unanticipated expenses and/or enforcement action against us.. Under the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act of 1968, and the associated regulations promulgated by the Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\"), HyperSound products are regulated as electrical emitters of ultrasonic vibrations.  Under the terms of such regulations, in August 2012 we provided, and in January 2016 further supplemented, an abbreviated report to the FDA describing the HyperSound commercial product.  In September 2015 we provided an initial product report describing the HyperSound Clear® 500P product. The FDA may respond to these reports and request changes or safeguards to our HyperSound products, but it has not done so to date.  We also are required to notify the FDA in writing should a product be found to have a defect relating to safety of use due to the emission of electronic product radiation. We do not believe our technology poses any human health risks.  However, it is possible that we, or one of our customers, could be required to modify the technology, or a product incorporating the technology, to comply with requirements that may be imposed by the FDA.  Our HyperSound product advertising is regulated by the Federal Trade Commission (the \"FTC\"), which requires all advertising be truthful, not deceptive or unfair, and evidence based.. The HyperSound Clear 500P and the HyperSound Tinnitus Module were regulated by the FDA as medical devices pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and implementing regulations.  HyperSound Clear 500P received 510(k) clearance permitting over-the-counter (\"OTC\") commercial distribution for use as a group auditory trainer or group hearing aid and the HyperSound Tinnitus Module feature received 510(k) clearance for prescription use in the temporary relief of tinnitus symptoms.  In connection with the recent restructuring of the HyperSound business, we terminated sales of HyperSound Clear 500P products, and in March 2017 we deactivated our FDA listing of these devices. We also did not renew our 2017 European Union certifications for HyperSound Clear 500P devices.  Any future sales of regulated products would require new registrations and certifications.. We continue to be subject to FDA's requirements for marketed medical devices with respect to those HyperSound Clear 500P products that have already been sold, such as the Quality System Regulation, or QSR (which imposes procedural, documentation and record keeping requirements regarding the manufacture of medical devices); the Medical Device Reporting regulation (which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur); and the Reports of Corrections and Removals regulation (which requires manufacturers to report recalls and field actions to the FDA if initiated to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA that may pose a risk to health).  FDA enforces these requirements by inspection and market surveillance.  If the FDA finds a violation, it can institute a wide range of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as fines, penalties, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions or total shutdown of production, and criminal prosecution.. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our operations and some of our products are regulated under various federal, state, local and international environmental laws. In addition, regulatory bodies in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate propose, enact and amend environmental laws and regulations on a regular basis. The environmental laws and regulations applying to our business include those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management, disposal and labeling of, and exposure to, hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. If we were to violate or become liable under these environmental laws, we could be required to incur additional costs to comply with such regulations and may incur fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs. Liability under environmental laws may be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any new environmental laws and regulations, such laws may result in additional costs or decreased revenue, and could require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, to the extent that our competitors choose not to abide by these environmental laws and regulations, we may be at a cost disadvantage, thereby hindering our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace.. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business.. We operate in 44 countries, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws. We are subject, however, to the risk that our officers, directors, employees, agents and collaborators may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, the European Union Anti-Corruption Act and other. 17. similar laws, or that subjects us to trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. Department of Commerce. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties or curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business.. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock. If we cannot meet Nasdaq's continuing listing requirements and Nasdaq rules, Nasdaq may delist our securities, which could negatively affect us, the price of our securities and your ability to sell our securities.. Although our shares are currently listed on Nasdaq, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of Nasdaq, which require, among other things, a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for common shares listed on the exchange and minimum levels of stockholders' equity and the market value of our common stock outstanding. As previously disclosed, on May 9, 2017, we received a written notice from the Listing Qualifications Department of Nasdaq indicating that the Company was not in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) (the \"Bid Price Rule\") because the bid price for our common stock had closed below $1.00 per share for the previous 30 consecutive business days. In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), the Company was provided 180 calendar days, or until November 6, 2017, to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule. Also as previously disclosed, on November 9, 2017, the Company made a request to the Nasdaq hearing panel to provide the Company an additional 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule, which stayed the potential delisting of the Company's common stock under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5815(a)(1) pending the hearing panel's decision. On January 17, 2018, the hearing panel approved the Company's request for an additional 180 calendar days, or until May 7, 2018, to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule.. In addition, on January 16, 2018, the Company received a written notice from the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department indicating that the Company is not in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(b)(2)(C) (the \"Market Value Rule\") because the market value of publicly held shares of its common stock was less than $15 million for 30 consecutive business days. In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(D), the Company has 180 calendar days, or until July 16, 2018, to regain compliance with the Market Value Rule. To regain compliance, the market value of publicly held shares of the Company's common stock must meet or exceed $15 million for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days.. While we are actively considering implementation of customary resolutions, including a reverse stock split, if we are unable to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule and/or the Market Value Rule, if our efforts are unsuccessful or we are otherwise unable to satisfy the Nasdaq criteria for maintaining our listing, our securities could be subject to delisting.  As a consequence of any such delisting, our stockholders would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the prices of, our securities.  In the event of a delisting, we could face significant material adverse consequences including limited liquidity for our securities, a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our Company and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future.. Ownership of our common stock is highly concentrated, and we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of Nasdaq and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. Certain Turtle Beach stockholders acting as a group beneficially own or control approximately 51% of our common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders, acting as a group pursuant to a stockholder agreement, have substantial influence over the outcome of our corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. These stockholders also may exert influence in delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, even if such change in control would benefit our other stockholders. In addition, the significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the market value of our common stock due to investors' perception that such conflicts of interest may exist or arise.. Additionally, we have elected to be treated as a \"controlled company\" under Nasdaq rules. A \"controlled company\" under Nasdaq rules is a listed company more than 50% of the voting power of which is held by an individual, a group or another company (and which elects to be treated as a \"controlled company\"). Certain stockholders of Turtle Beach constitute a group controlling more than 50% of the voting power of our voting stock. As a \"controlled company,\" we are permitted to, and have, opted out of certain Nasdaq rules that would otherwise require (i) a majority of the members of our board to be independent, (ii) that our compensation committee be comprised entirely of independent directors and (iii) that we establish a nominating and governance committee comprised entirely of independent directors, or otherwise ensure that director nominees are determined or recommended to our board by the independent members of our board. Accordingly, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of Nasdaq.. 18. If the stockholder group ceases to own at least 50% of our outstanding common stock, we will no longer be eligible to be treated as a controlled company.  Pursuant to Nasdaq's listing rules, upon ceasing to be a controlled company, we would be required to regain compliance with Nasdaq's listing standards applicable to non-controlled companies, including (i) within 90 days, reconfiguring the Nominating and Governance Committee of our board of directors such that a majority of the members of the committee would be independent and (ii) within 12 months, (x) reconfiguring our board of directors such that a majority of the directors would be independent and (y) reconfiguring the Compensation and Nominating and Governance Committees of the board of directors such that all members of such committees would be independent."
