[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Set forth below, and elsewhere in this report, are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. If we are unable to accurately estimate contract risks, revenue or costs, the timing of new awards, or the pace of project execution, we may incur a loss or achieve lower than anticipated profit.. <U+FEFF>. Accounting for contract-related revenue and costs requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions that may change significantly throughout the project lifecycle, which could result in a material impact to our consolidated financial statements. In addition, cost overruns on fixed price and GMP contracts may result in lower profits or losses. Our results of operations can also fluctuate quarterly and annually depending on when new awards occur and the commencement and progress of work on projects already awarded.. <U+FEFF>. Our contracts require us to perform extra, or change order, work, which can result in disputes or claims and adversely affect our working capital, profits and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. Our contracts generally require us to perform extra, or change order, work as directed by the customer even if the customer has not agreed in advance on the scope and/or price of the work to be performed. This process may result in disputes or claims over whether the work performed is beyond the scope of work directed by the customer and/or exceeds the price the customer is willing to pay for the work performed. To the extent we do not recover our costs for this work or there are delays in the recovery of these costs, our cash flows and working capital could be adversely impacted.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to significant legal proceedings which, if determined adversely to us, could harm our reputation, preclude us from bidding on future projects and/or have a material effect on us. We also may invest significant working capital on projects while legal proceedings are being settled.. <U+FEFF>. We are involved in various lawsuits, including the legal proceedings described under Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Litigation is inherently uncertain, and it is not possible to accurately predict what the final outcome will be of any legal proceeding. We must make certain assumptions and rely on estimates, which are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, regarding potential outcomes of legal proceedings in order to determine an appropriate contingent liability and charge to income. Any result that is materially different than our estimates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of. 11. Table of Contents. operations and cash flows. In addition, any adverse judgments could harm our reputation and preclude us from bidding on future projects.. <U+FEFF>. We occasionally bring claims against project owners for additional cost exceeding the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price. When these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we may invest significant working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a material effect on our liquidity and financial results.. <U+FEFF>. A significant slowdown or decline in economic conditions could adversely affect our operations.. <U+FEFF>. Any significant decline in economic conditions in any of the markets we serve or uncertainty regarding the economic outlook, could result in a decline in demand for infrastructure projects and commercial building developments. In addition, any instability in the financial and credit markets could negatively impact our customers' ability to pay us on a timely basis, or at all, for work on projects already under construction, could cause our customers to delay or cancel construction projects in our backlog or could create difficulties for customers to obtain adequate financing to fund new construction projects. Such consequences could have an adverse impact on our future operating results. Lastly, we are more susceptible to adverse economic conditions in New York and California, as a significant portion of our operations are concentrated in those states.. <U+FEFF>. Competition for new project awards is intense, and our failure to compete effectively could reduce our market share and profits.. <U+FEFF>. New project awards are determined through either a competitive bid basis or on a negotiated basis. Projects may be awarded based solely upon price, but often take into account other factors, such as technical qualifications, proposed project team, schedule and past performance on similar projects. Within our industry, we compete with many international, regional and local construction firms. Some of these competitors have achieved greater market penetration than we have in the markets in which we compete, and some have greater resources than we do. If we are unable to compete successfully in such markets, our relative market share and profits could be reduced.. <U+FEFF>. We may not fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog due to cancellations or reductions in scope.. <U+FEFF>. As of December 31, 2017, our backlog of uncompleted construction work was approximately $7.3 billion. The revenue projected in our backlog may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in profits. For example, the cancellation or reduction in scope of certain projects in our backlog could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. Our actual results could differ from the assumptions and estimates used to prepare our financial statements.. <U+FEFF>. In preparing our financial statements, we are required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"GAAP\") to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include, but are not limited to:. <U+FEFF>. • recognition of contract revenue, costs, profits or losses in applying the principles of percentage-of-completion accounting;. • recognition of revenue related to project incentives or awards we expect to receive;. • recognition of recoveries under contract change orders or claims;. • estimated amounts for expected project losses, warranty costs, contract close-out or other costs;. • collectability of billed and unbilled accounts receivable;. • asset valuations;. • income tax provisions and related valuation allowances;. • determination of expense and potential liabilities under pension and other post-retirement benefit programs; and. • accruals for other estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance revenue/reserves.. <U+FEFF>. Our actual business and financial results could differ from our estimates of such results, which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and reported results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The construction services industry is highly schedule driven, and our failure to meet the schedule requirements of our contracts could adversely affect our reputation and/or expose us to financial liability.. <U+FEFF>. Many of our contracts are subject to specific completion schedule requirements. Any failure to meet contractual schedule requirements could subject us to liquidated damages, liability for our customer's actual cost arising out of our delay and damage to our reputation.. <U+FEFF>. 12. Table of Contents. The level of federal, state and local government spending for infrastructure and other public projects could adversely affect the number of projects available to us in the future.. <U+FEFF>. The civil construction and public-works building markets are dependent on the amount of work funded by various government agencies, which depends on many factors, including the condition of the existing infrastructure and buildings; the need for new or expanded infrastructure and buildings; and federal, state and local government spending levels. As a result, our future operating results could be negatively impacted by any decrease in demand for public projects or decrease or delay in government funding, which could result from a variety of factors, including delays in the sale of voter-approved bonds, budget shortfalls, credit rating downgrades or long-term impairment in the ability of state and local governments to raise capital in the municipal bond market.. <U+FEFF>. Our participation in construction joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures by our partners.. <U+FEFF>. As part of our business, we enter into joint venture arrangements typically to jointly bid on and execute particular projects, thereby reducing our risk profile while enhancing the execution capability and financial reward of project teams. Success on these joint projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. Generally, we and our joint venture partners are jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. If a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner's shortfall. Further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner's performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation, reduce our profit on a project or, in some cases, result in a loss.. <U+FEFF>. We require substantial personnel, including construction and project managers and specialty subcontractor resources to execute and perform our contracts in backlog. The successful execution of our business strategies is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain our key officers, as well as adequately plan for their succession.. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to execute and perform on our contracts in backlog depends in large part upon our ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel, including project and construction management and trade labor resources, such as carpenters, masons and other skilled workers. In the event we are unable to attract, hire and retain the requisite personnel and subcontractors necessary to execute and perform our backlog, we may experience delays in completing projects in accordance with project schedules or an increase in expected costs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, our reputation and our relationships. In addition, if we lack the personnel and specialty subcontractors necessary to perform on our current contract backlog, we may find it necessary to curtail our pursuit of new projects. A significant, rapid growth in our backlog may lead to situations in which labor resources become constrained.. <U+FEFF>. The execution of our business strategies also substantially depends on our ability to retain several key members of our management. Losing any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. The majority of these key officers are not bound by employment agreements. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff to whom we have provided share-based compensation. Additionally, because a substantial portion of our key executives' compensation is placed \"at risk\" and linked to the performance of our business, when our operating results are negatively impacted, we are at greater risk of employee turnover. If we lose our key executives and do not have qualified successors in place, our operating results would likely be harmed.. <U+FEFF>. Systems and information technology interruption and breaches in data security could adversely impact our ability to operate and negatively impact our operating results.. <U+FEFF>. We are reliant on computer and other information technology that could be interrupted or damaged by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, cyber-attacks, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, acts of war, computer viruses and physical damage. The resulting consequences could include a loss of critical data, a delay in operations or an unintentional disclosure of confidential information, any of which could have a material impact to our Company and its consolidated financial statements.. <U+FEFF>. We dedicate considerable attention and resources to the safeguarding of our information technology systems. Our systems may, nevertheless, continue to be at risk for cyber-attacks. Consequently, we may need to engage significant resources in the future to remediate the impact of, or further mitigate the risk of, such an attack. Any successful cyber-attack could result in the criminal, or otherwise illegitimate use of, confidential data, including the Company's data or third-party data for which the Company has the responsibility for safekeeping. Additionally, such an attack could adversely affect our operations, reputation and financial results.. 13. Table of Contents. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to a number of risks as a U.S. government contractor, which could harm our reputation, result in fines or penalties against us and/or adversely impact our financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. Failure to comply with laws and regulations related to government contracts could result in contract termination, suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government, civil fines and criminal prosecution, any of which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and future financial condition and performance.. <U+FEFF>. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt agreements.. <U+FEFF>. We currently have, and expect to continue to have, a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had total debt of $736.3 million. If we are unable to meet the terms of the financial covenants or fail to comply with any of the other restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, an event of default could occur, causing the debt related to such agreement to become immediately due. If such acceleration occurs, we may not be able to repay such indebtedness as required. Since indebtedness under our 2017 Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, acceleration of this debt could result in foreclosure of those assets and a negative impact on our operations. In addition, a failure to meet the terms of our 2017 Credit Facility could result in a reduction of future borrowing capacity under the 2017 Credit Facility, causing a loss of liquidity. A loss of liquidity could adversely impact our ability to execute projects in our backlog, obtain new projects, engage subcontractors, and attract and retain key employees.. <U+FEFF>. Conversion of our outstanding Convertible Notes could dilute ownership interests of existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.. <U+FEFF>. Based on the terms of the indenture for the Convertible Notes, we may redeem the Convertible Notes in cash, shares of our Common Stock or a combination of the two. As a result, a conversion of some or all of the Convertible Notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of our Common Stock issuable upon such conversion of the Convertible Notes could cause the price of our Common Stock to decline. In addition, the existence of the Convertible Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because a conversion of the Convertible Notes could depress the price of our Common Stock.. <U+FEFF>. We may need to include the potential dilutive impact of our Convertible Notes in our diluted earnings per share calculation.. <U+FEFF>. We currently intend to pay the principal amount of our Convertible Notes in cash; therefore, we have not included the potential dilutive effect of our Convertible Notes in our diluted earnings per share calculations. If, however, there is a change in future circumstances as a result of a decline in our projected cash flow, available cash/liquidity or other reasons, we may conclude at such time that it will be preferable to use shares to satisfy the Convertible Notes. Such a change in our intentions would result in the inclusion of the potential dilutive impact of the Convertible Notes in our diluted earnings per share calculation, which would result in a decrease in our diluted earnings per share.. <U+FEFF>. Weather can significantly affect our revenue and profitability.. <U+FEFF>. Inclement weather conditions, such as significant storms and unusual temperatures, can impact our ability to perform work. Adverse weather conditions can cause delays and increases in project costs, resulting in variability in our revenue and profitability.. <U+FEFF>. Our international operations expose us to economic, political and other risks, as well as uncertainty related to U.S. Government funding, which could adversely affect our revenue and earnings. In addition, we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.. <U+FEFF>. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived approximately $143.6 million of revenue from our work on projects located outside of the United States. Our international operations expose us to risks inherent in doing business in certain hostile regions outside the United States, including political risks; risks of loss due to acts of war; unstable economic, financial and market conditions; potential incompatibility with foreign subcontractors and vendors; foreign currency controls and fluctuations; trade restrictions; logistical challenges; variations in taxes; and changes in labor conditions, labor strikes and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Failure to successfully manage risks associated with our international operations could result in higher operating costs than anticipated or could delay or limit our ability to generate revenue and income from construction operations in key international markets.. <U+FEFF>. The U.S. federal government has approved various spending bills for the construction of defense- and diplomacy-related projects and has allocated significant funds to the defense of U.S. interests around the world from the threat of terrorism. The federal government has also approved funds for development in conjunction with the relocation of military personnel into Guam. However, federal government funding levels for construction projects in the Middle East have decreased significantly over the past several years as the. 14. Table of Contents. U.S. government has reduced the number of military troops and support personnel in the region. As a result, we have seen a decrease in the number and size of federal government projects available to us in this region. Any decrease in U.S. federal government funding for projects in Guam or in other U.S. Territories or countries in which we are pursuing work may result in project delays or cancellations, which could reduce our revenue and earnings.. <U+FEFF>. Finally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from circumstances or actions that could result in possible criminal penalties or other sanctions, including contract cancellations or debarment and loss of reputation, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Our chairman and chief executive officer could exert influence over the Company due to his position and significant ownership interest.. <U+FEFF>. As of December 31, 2017, our chairman and chief executive officer, Ronald N. Tutor, and three trusts controlled by Mr. Tutor (the \"Tutor Group\") owned approximately 18% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. Additionally, one of our current directors was appointed by Mr. Tutor pursuant to his right to nominate one member to our Board of Directors, so long as the Tutor Group owns at least 11.25% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. Accordingly, Mr. Tutor could exert influence over the outcome of a range of corporate matters, including the election of directors and the approval or rejection of other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt or sale of the Company or its assets.. <U+FEFF>. In connection with mergers and acquisitions, we have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets that could become impaired and adversely affect our operating results. Assessing whether impairment has occurred requires us to make significant judgments and assumptions about the future, which are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, and if actual events turn out to be materially less favorable than the judgments we make and the assumptions we use, we may be required to record impairment charges in the future.. <U+FEFF>. We had approximately $635.4 million of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017. We assess these assets for impairment annually, or more often if required. Our assessments involve a number of estimates and assumptions that are inherently subjective, require significant judgment and regard highly uncertain matters that are subject to change. The use of different assumptions or estimates could materially affect the determination as to whether or not an impairment has occurred. In addition, if future events are less favorable than what we assumed or estimated in our impairment analysis, we may be required to record impairment charge, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.. <U+FEFF>"
