[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company faces a variety of significant and diverse risks, many of which are inherent in the business. Described below are certain risks that could materially affect the Company. Other risks and uncertainties that the Company does not presently consider to be material, or of which the Company is not presently aware, may become important factors that affect it in the future. The occurrence of any of the risks discussed below could materially and adversely affect the business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flow.. The investment management business is intensely competitive.. Competition in the investment management business is based on a variety of factors, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tInvestment performance;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tInvestor perception of an investment team’s drive, focus, and alignment of interest with them;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tQuality of service provided to, and duration of relationships with, clients and shareholders;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tBusiness reputation; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLevel of fees charged for services.. The Company competes with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, broker-dealers, insurance companies, and other financial institutions. Competitive risk is heightened by the fact that some competitors may invest according to different investment styles or in alternative asset classes which the markets may perceive as more attractive than the Company’s investment approach. If the Company is unable to compete effectively, revenues and earnings may be reduced and the business could be materially affected.. Poor investment performance could lead to a decline in revenues.. Success in the investment management industry is largely dependent on investment performance relative to market conditions and the performance of competing products. Good relative performance generally attracts additional assets under management, resulting in additional revenues. Conversely, poor performance generally results in decreased sales and increased redemptions with a corresponding decrease in revenues. Therefore, poor investment performance relative to the portfolio benchmarks and to competitors could impair the Company’s revenues and growth. The equity funds within USGIF have a performance fee whereby the base advisory fee is adjusted upwards or downwards by 0.25 percent if there is a performance difference of 5 percent or more between a Fund’s performance and that of its designated benchmark index over the prior rolling 12 months.. 6. Table of Contents. The Company’s clients can terminate their agreements with the Company on short notice, which may lead to unexpected declines in revenue and profitability.. The Company’s investment advisory agreements are generally terminable on short notice and subject to annual renewal. If the Company’s investment advisory agreements are terminated, which may occur in a short time frame, the Company may experience a decline in revenues and profitability.. Difficult market conditions can adversely affect the Company by reducing the market value of the assets we manage or causing shareholders to make significant redemptions.. Changes in economic or market conditions may adversely affect the profitability, performance of and demand for the Company’s investment products and services. Under the Company’s advisory fee arrangements, the fees received are primarily based on the market value of assets under management. Accordingly, a decline in the price of securities held in the Funds would be expected to cause revenues and net income to decline, which would result in lower advisory fees, or cause increased shareholder redemptions in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which redemptions would also result in lower advisory fees. The ability of the Company to compete and grow is dependent on the relative attractiveness of the types of investment products the Company offers and its investment performance and strategies under prevailing market conditions.. Market-specific risks may negatively impact the Company’s earnings.. The Company manages certain funds in the emerging market and natural resources sectors, which are highly cyclical. The investments in the Funds are subject to significant loss due to political, economic and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, and changes in governmental policies, including trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers. Foreign trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than the U.S. and other established markets.. The market price and trading volume of the Company’s class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for the Company’s stockholders.. The market price of the Company’s class A common stock may be volatile and the trading volume may fluctuate, causing significant price variations to occur. If the market price of the Company’s class A common stock declines significantly, stockholders may be unable to sell their shares at or above their purchase price. The Company cannot assure that the market price of its class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of the Company’s class A common stock, or result in fluctuations in price or trading volume, include:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDecreases in assets under management;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tVariations in quarterly and annual operating results;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tPublication of research reports about the Company or the investment management industry;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDepartures of key personnel;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAdverse market reactions to any indebtedness the Company may incur, acquisitions or disposals the Company may make, or securities the Company may issue in the future;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in market valuations of similar companies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges or proposed changes in laws or regulations, or differing interpretations thereof, affecting the business, or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAdverse publicity about the asset management industry, generally, or individual scandals, specifically; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tGeneral market and economic conditions.. In addition, the Company has invested in a security in the cryptocurrency mining industry through its corporate investments and indirectly through investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Cryptocurrency markets and related stocks have been, and are expected to continue to be, volatile. This volatility may materially impact the Company’s financial statements and thus affect the Company’s common stock market price. In addition, the price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate to the extent that shareholders invest in the Company’s common stock as a proxy for cryptocurrency. The investing public may be influenced by future anticipated appreciation or depreciation in value of cryptocurrencies or blockchain generally, factors over which the Company has little or no influence or control. The Company’s stock price may also be subject to volatility due to supply and demand factors associated with few or limited public company options for investment in the segment, which may change over time.. 7. Table of Contents. The Company has exposure to the cryptocurrency markets through its investments.. The Company has invested in a security in the cryptocurrency mining industry through its corporate investments and indirectly through investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Cryptocurrency markets and related stocks have been, and are expected to continue to be, volatile. Cryptocurrency mining is considered an early stage high-risk industry, and the nature of mining is expected to evolve. There is potential for significant volatility in the valuation of the Company’s cryptocurrency-related investments.. The market price of the Company’s class A common stock could decline due to the large number of shares of the Company’s class C common stock eligible for future sale upon conversion to class A shares.. The market price of the Company’s class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of class A common stock eligible for future sale upon the conversion of class C shares, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for the Company to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future, at a time and price the Company deems appropriate.. Failure to comply with government regulations could result in fines, which could cause the Company’s earnings and stock price to decline.. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to a variety of federal securities laws and agencies, including, but not limited to, the Advisers Act, the Investment Company Act, the S-Ox Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, the SEC, FINRA, and NASDAQ. Moreover, financial reporting requirements and the processes, controls, and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are comprehensive and complex. While management has focused attention and resources on compliance policies and procedures, non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, sanctions or censures which could affect the Company’s reputation, and thus its revenues and earnings.. Furthermore, Galileo is subject to the rules and regulations of the OSC, and failure of the company or the funds it advises to comply with the requirements of the OSC could have a material adverse effect on the company.. Our business is subject to substantial risk from litigation, regulatory investigations and potential securities laws liability.. Many aspects of U.S. Global’s business involve substantial risks of litigation, regulatory investigations and/or arbitration. The Company is exposed to liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and other regulatory bodies. U.S. Global, its subsidiaries, and/or officers could be named as parties in legal actions, regulatory investigations and proceedings. An adverse resolution of any lawsuit, legal or regulatory proceeding or claim against the Company could result in substantial costs or reputational harm to the Company, and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations, which, in turn, may negatively affect the market price of the Company’s common stock and U.S. Global’s ability to pay dividends. In addition to these financial costs and risks, the defense of litigation or arbitration may divert resources and management’s attention from operations.. Galileo is also subject to risks of litigation, regulatory investigations and/or arbitration. Galileo is exposed to liability under provincial laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the OSC.. Higher insurance premiums and related insurance coverage risks could increase costs and reduce profitability.. While U.S. Global carries insurance in amounts and under terms that it believes are appropriate, the Company cannot assure that its insurance will cover most liabilities and losses to which it may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. U.S. Global is subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. An adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. From time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. There has been increased incidence of litigation and regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims and class action suits alleging substantial monetary damages. Certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. As U.S. Global’s insurance policies come up for renewal, the Company may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase the Company’s expenses and reduce net income.. 8. Table of Contents. Increased regulatory and legislative actions and reforms could increase costs and negatively impact the Company’s profitability and future financial results.. During the past two decades, federal securities laws have been substantially augmented and made significantly more complex by the S-Ox Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. With new laws and changes in interpretations and enforcement of existing requirements, the associated time the Company must dedicate to, and related costs the Company must incur in, meeting the regulatory complexities of the business have increased. In order to comply with these new requirements, the Company has had to expend additional time and resources, including substantial efforts to conduct evaluations required to ensure compliance with the S-Ox Act.. The Company is subject to financial services laws, regulations, corporate governance requirements, administrative actions and policies. During 2009 and 2010, as many emergency government programs slowed or wound down, global regulatory and legislative focus generally moved to a second phase of broader reform and a restructuring of financial institution regulation. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), which fundamentally changed the U.S. financial regulatory landscape. The full scope of the regulatory changes imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act will only be determined once extensive rules and regulations have been proposed and become effective, which may result in significant changes in the manner in which the Company’s operations are regulated.. Further, adverse results of regulatory investigations of mutual fund, investment advisory, and financial services firms could tarnish the reputation of the financial services industry generally, and mutual funds and investment advisers more specifically, causing investors to avoid further fund investments or redeem their balances. Redemptions would decrease the Company’s assets under management, which would reduce its advisory revenues and net income.. The Company intends to pay regular dividends to its stockholders, but the ability to do so is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors.. The Company intends to pay cash dividends on a monthly basis, but the Board of Directors, at its discretion, may decrease the level or frequency of dividends or discontinue payment of dividends entirely based on earnings, operations, capital requirements, general financial condition of the Company, and general business conditions.. One person beneficially owns substantially all of our voting stock and controls the outcome of all matters requiring a vote of stockholders, which may influence the value of our publicly traded non-voting stock.. Frank Holmes, CEO, is the beneficial owner of over 99 percent of our class C voting convertible common stock and controls the outcome of all issues requiring a vote of stockholders. All of our publicly traded stock is nonvoting stock. Consequently, except to the extent provided by law, stockholders other than Frank Holmes have no vote with respect to the election of directors or any other matter requiring a vote of stockholders. This lack of voting rights may adversely affect the market value of the publicly traded class A nonvoting common stock.. The loss of key personnel could negatively affect the Company’s financial performance.. The success of the Company depends on key personnel, including the portfolio managers, analysts, and executive officers. Competition for qualified, motivated, and skilled personnel in the asset management industry remains significant. Moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, the Company may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense. The loss of key personnel or the Company’s failure to attract replacement personnel could negatively affect its financial performance.. The Company could be subject to losses if it fails to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information.. As part of the Company’s normal operations, it maintains and transmits certain confidential information about the Company and its clients as well as proprietary information relating to its business operations. These systems could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. Such a breach could subject the Company to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of relationships with our existing customers, require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach and subject the Company to regulatory action.. 9. Table of Contents. We rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business, and the failure of any critical information system, including a cyber-security breach, may result in harm to our business.. We are heavily dependent on technology infrastructure and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include data network and telecommunications, internet access and our websites, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications. These information systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks and other events to the extent that these information systems are under our control. We have implemented measures, such as virus protection software, intrusion detection systems and emergency recovery processes to address the outlined risks. However, security measures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe. Any compromise of our data security or our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business and subject us to additional costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Finally, federal legislation relating to cyber-security threats could impose additional requirements on our operations.. Adverse changes in foreign currencies could negatively impact financial results.. Our subsidiary Galileo conducts its business in Canada. We translate Galileo’s foreign currency financial statements into U.S. dollars in the financial statement consolidation process. Adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates would lower the carrying value of Galileo’s assets and reduce its results in the consolidated U.S. financial statements. We also have certain corporate investments held in foreign currencies. Adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates would also lower the value of those corporate investments. Certain assets under management also have exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in various markets, which could impact their valuation and thus the revenue we receive.. Acquisitions involve inherent risks that could compromise the success of the combined business and dilute the holdings of current stockholders.. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue corporate development transactions, including the acquisition of asset management firms. These transactions involve assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability of the transactions, and if our assessment is incorrect, the success of the combined business could be jeopardized. In addition, such transactions are subject to acquisition costs and expenses, are likely to divert the attention of management’s time, and can dilute the stockholders of the combined company if the acquisition is made for stock of the combined company."                            
