[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The cyclical and highly volatile nature of the industries we serve could harm our operating results.. Our business and operating results depend in significant part upon capital expenditures by manufacturers in the semiconductor capital equipment, consumer, medical, energy, industrial and research industries, which in turn depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for such products. Historically, the industries we serve (in particular the semiconductor industry) have been highly cyclical, with recurring periods of over-supply of products that have had a severe negative effect on the demand for capital equipment used to manufacture such products. We have experienced and anticipate that we will continue to experience significant fluctuations in customer orders for our products through such cycles. Slowdowns in the industries we serve have had, and future slowdowns may also have, a material adverse effect on our operating results. During periods of decreasing demand for our products, we must be able to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, effectively manage our supply chain and motivate and retain employees. During periods of increased demand, we must increase manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demands, effectively manage our supply chain and attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of employees. If the industries we serve experience downturns, or if we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to the changes in our business environment, our results of operations will be harmed. Also, the cyclical and volatile nature of the industries we serve make future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult to estimate.. 11. We rely on a small number of original equipment manufacturing customers for a significant portion of our sales, and any adverse change in our relationships with these customers, including a decision by such customers not to continue to outsource critical subsystems to us or to give market share to one of our competitors, would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our customers also exert a significant amount of negotiating leverage over us, which may require us to accept lower operating margins, increased liability risks or changes in our operations in order to retain or expand our market share with them.. A relatively small number of OEM customers have historically accounted for a significant portion of our sales, and we expect this trend to continue. As a group, the respective year's top two customers accounted for 84.4%, 82.2% and 77.0% of our sales for fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and we expect that our sales will continue to be concentrated among a small number of customers. In addition, our customer contracts generally do not require customers to place any orders. Accordingly, the success of our business depends on OEMs continuing to outsource the manufacturing of critical subsystems to us. Because of the small number of OEMs in the markets we serve, most of which are already our customers, it would be difficult to replace lost revenue resulting from the loss of, or the reduction, cancellation or delay in purchase orders by, any one of these customers, whether due to such customer's decision to not continue to outsource all or a portion of its critical subsystems for its capital equipment to us, such customer giving market share to our competitors or for other reasons, such as a customer's bankruptcy or insolvency or decreased demand for such customer's products. We have in the past lost business from customers who have taken the manufacturing of our products in-house, given market share to our competitors or declared bankruptcy. Further, since our customers generally own the designs and other intellectual property to the products we manufacture, we cannot prevent them from licensing such designs and other intellectual property to our competitors for the manufacturing of such products. If we are unable to replace revenue from customers who determine to take subsystem assembly in-house, give market share to our competitors or from whom we otherwise lose business, such events could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.. In addition, consolidation among our customers, or a decision by any one or more of our customers to outsource all or most manufacturing and assembly work to a single equipment manufacturer, may further concentrate our business in a limited number of customers and expose us to increased risks relating to dependence on an even smaller number of customers.. In addition, by virtue of our largest customers' sizes, and the significant portion of revenue that we derive from them, as well as the competitive landscape, our customers are able to exert significant influence and pricing pressure in the negotiation of our commercial agreements and individual purchase orders and on the conduct of our business with them. Our customers often require reduced prices or other pricing, quality, manufacturing or delivery commitments as a condition to their awarding of market share to us or the placement of orders with us in any given period, which may, among other things, result in reduced operating margins in order to maintain or expand our market share or require capital or other expenditures. Our customers' negotiating leverage also can result in customer agreements or terms and conditions that may contain significant liability risk to us. For example, some of our customers insist that we provide them indemnification against certain liabilities in our agreements with them, including claims of losses by their customers caused by our products, which may be uncapped. In some cases, we have determined to self-insure against liability risk in our customer agreements, meaning that we may be directly responsible for high magnitude liability claims by our customers without recourse to insurance proceeds from third-party insurers. Our customers may also pressure us to make other concessions in order to preserve or expand our market share with them, which may harm our business. For example, one or more of our customers may require us to move the manufacture of our products from lower-cost geographies or locations such as China to higher-cost geographies or locations, such as Singapore, that are closer to such customer's facilities which could result in reduced margins and a sub-optimal cost structure. If we are unable to retain and expand our business with our customers on favorable terms, or at all, our business and operating results will be adversely affected, or we may be susceptible to increased liability risk which, if realized, may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. 12. Our dependence on our suppliers may prevent us from delivering an acceptable product on a timely basis.. We rely on both single-source and sole-source suppliers, some of whom are relatively small, for many of the components we use in our products. In addition, our customers often specify components of particular suppliers that we must incorporate into our products. Our suppliers are under no obligation to accept or to provide us with components. As a result, the loss of or failure to perform by any of these suppliers could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, the manufacturing of certain components and subsystems is a complex process. Therefore, if a supplier were unable to provide the volume of components we require on a timely basis and at acceptable prices and quality, we would have to identify and qualify replacements from alternative sources. However, the process of qualifying new suppliers for complex components is lengthy and could delay our production, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We may also experience difficulty in obtaining sufficient supplies of components and raw materials in times of growth in our business. For example, we have in the past experienced shortages in supplies of various components, such as mass flow controllers, valves and regulators, and certain prefabricated parts, such as sheet metal enclosures, used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, one of our competitors manufactures mass flow controllers that may be specified by one or more of our customers. If we are unable to obtain these particular mass flow controllers from our competitor or convince a customer to select alternative mass flow controllers, we may be unable to meet that customer's requirements, which could result in a loss of market share.. If we, or our suppliers, are unable to procure sufficient quantities of components or raw materials from suppliers, it could influence decisions by our customers to delay or cancel orders and decisions by our vendors to fulfill our purchase orders and, consequently, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The manufacturing of our products is highly complex, and if we are not able to manage our manufacturing and procurement process effectively, our business and operating results will suffer.. The manufacturing of our products is a highly complex process that involves the integration of multiple components and requires effective management of our supply chain while meeting our customers' design-to-delivery cycle time requirements. Through the course of the manufacturing process, our customers may modify design and system configurations in response to changes in their own customers' requirements. In order to rapidly respond to these modifications and deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, we must effectively manage our manufacturing and procurement process. If we fail to manage this process effectively, we risk losing customers and damaging our reputation. We may also be subject to liability under our agreements with our customers if we or our suppliers fail to effectively or timely re-configure manufacturing processes or components in response to these modifications or if shipments of our products are delayed, which may lead to product defect or other claims by our customers or cancelled orders. In addition, if we acquire inventory in excess of demand or that does not meet customer specifications, we could incur excess or obsolete inventory charges. These risks are even greater during periods of macroeconomic uncertainty or down cycles in our industry, and as we continue to expand our business beyond gas delivery systems into new subsystems with which we have less experience. During periods of economic uncertainty or down cycles in our industry, certain of our suppliers may be forced to reduce or go out of business, which could require us to either procure products from higher-cost suppliers or, if no additional suppliers exist, reconfigure the design and manufacture of our products. This could limit our growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We may not be able to respond quickly enough to changes in demand for our products.. Demand shifts in the industries we serve are rapid and difficult to predict, and we may not be able to anticipate or respond quickly enough to changes in demand. Our ability to increase sales of our products in periods of increasing demand depends, in part, upon our ability to:. •  mobilize our supply chain in order to maintain component and raw material supply;. •  optimize the use of our design, engineering and manufacturing capacity in a timely manner;. •  deliver our products to our customers in a timely fashion;. •  expand, if necessary, our manufacturing capacity; and. •  maintain our product quality as we increase production.. 13. If we are unable to respond to rapid increases in demand for our products on a timely basis or to manage any corresponding expansion of our manufacturing capacity effectively, our customers could increase their purchases from our competitors, which would adversely affect our business.. Our ability to remain profitable and mitigate the impact on our business in periods of decreasing demand depends, in part, upon our ability to:. •  optimize our inventory levels and reduce or cancel orders to our suppliers without compromising our relationships with such suppliers;. •  reduce our variable costs through a reduction of our manufacturing workforce;. •  continue to motivate our employees; and. •  maintain the prices, quality and delivery cycles of our products in order to retain our customers' business.. Our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may suffer if we do not effectively manage our inventory.. Inventory is typically the largest asset on our balance sheet, representing 42.0% of our total assets as of December 29, 2017.  We must manage our inventory of raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods effectively to meet changing customer requirements, while keeping inventory costs down and maintaining or improving gross margins.. Historically, the industries we serve (in particular the semiconductor capital equipment industry) have been highly cyclical, which makes accurately forecasting customers' product needs difficult.  Although we seek to maintain sufficient inventory levels of materials to guard against interruptions in supply and to meet our customers' needs, we may experience shortages of certain key materials, particularly in times of high industry demand.  We also face long lead times from our suppliers, which may be longer than the lead times provided to us by our customers.  If we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity or raw materials are available, we may have to forego sales opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships.. In the event we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, we could hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. Some of our products have in the past and may in the future become obsolete while in inventory due to changing customer specifications, or become excess inventory due to decreased demand for our products and an inability to sell the inventory within a foreseeable period. Furthermore, our customers may cancel orders on short notice. This could result in charges that reduce our gross profit and gross margin. Furthermore, if market prices drop below the prices at which we value inventory, we would need to take a charge for a reduction in inventory values in accordance with the lower of cost or net realizable value valuation rule. Any future unexpected changes in demand or increases in costs of production that cause us to take additional charges for un-saleable, obsolete or excess inventory, or to reduce inventory values, would adversely affect our results of operations.. We hold inventory at our various manufacturing sites globally and many of these sites have more than one inventory warehouse. Successfully managing our inventory is dependent upon our information technology systems and internal controls.  We rely upon such information technology systems and internal controls to accurately and timely manage, store and replenish inventory, complete and track customer orders, coordinate sales activities across all of our products and maintain and report vital data and information. A disruption in our information technology systems or a failure of our internal controls (arising from, for example, system capacity limits from unexpected or prolonged increases in our volume of business, outages or delays in our service) could result in delays or disruptions in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders, incorrect inventory counts, over or under stocking or loss of inventory and adversely affect our business, customer service and relationships.  In particular, our largest customer requires that certain of our products are manufactured and shipped out of our Singapore facility.  Recent high levels of customer demand at such facility have created substantial strain on our processes, internal controls and information technology systems.  There can be no assurance that such delays, failures or disruptions will not have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. 14. Our customers require our products to undergo a lengthy and expensive qualification process. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying any of our products with a customer, our results of operations and financial condition could suffer.. We have had to qualify, and are required to maintain our status, as a supplier for each of our customers. This is often a lengthy process that involves the inspection and approval by a customer of our engineering, documentation, manufacturing and quality control procedures before that customer will place volume orders. Our ability to lessen the adverse effect of any loss of, or reduction in sales to, an existing customer through the rapid addition of one or more new customers is limited because of these qualification requirements. Consequently, the risk that our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected by the loss of, or any reduction in orders by, any of our significant customers is increased. Moreover, if we lose our existing status as a qualified supplier to any of our customers, such customer could cancel its orders from us or otherwise terminate its relationship with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our inability to successfully manage the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system could adversely affect our operating results.. We are in the process of implementing a new Company-wide ERP system. This process has been and continues to be complex and time-consuming and we expect to incur additional expenses. This ERP system will replace many of our existing operating and financial systems, which is a major undertaking from a financial management and personnel perspective. Should the new ERP system not be implemented successfully throughout all our business units and within budget and on time, or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and adversely affect our operations, including our potential ability to report accurate, timely and consistent financial results; our ability to purchase raw material from and pay our suppliers; and our ability to deliver products to customers on a timely basis and to collect our receivables from them. Furthermore, this new ERP system is intended to be implemented beginning in the third quarter of 2018 and finalized by the end of fiscal year 2019. Once operational, we expect amortization of our capitalized ERP costs will be significant and may not be offset by the efficiencies we expect this system to produce for the Company.. In addition, we have put teams together who are leading the implementation of the ERP system at all of our locations. To the extent that these teams or key individuals are not retained through the implementation period, the success of our implementation could be compromised and the expected benefits of the ERP system may not be realized. If the new ERP system is not successfully implemented, it could negatively affect our financial reporting and inventory management and our future sales, profitability and financial condition.. We are exposed to risks associated with volatility in the global economy.. We rely to a significant extent on OEM customers, whose business, in turn, depends largely on consumer spending and capital expenditures by businesses. Uncertainty regarding the global economy may pose challenges to our business. Economic uncertainty may exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain of our customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for products or services, which may reduce sales and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Inflationary trends could also have an impact on labor costs and component costs, reducing our margins. Difficulties in obtaining capital, uncertain market conditions, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, leading to customers' reduced research and development funding and/or capital expenditures and, in turn, lower orders from our customers and/or additional slow moving or obsolete inventory or bad debt expense for us. These conditions may also similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products or require us to either procure products from higher-cost suppliers, or if no additional suppliers exist, to reconfigure the design and manufacture of our products, and we may be unable to fulfill customer orders.. Significant developments stemming from the recent change in the U.S. administration could have a material adverse effect on us.. On January 20, 2017, a new president of the United States was inaugurated as the president of the United States. While it is still uncertain at this time how the new administration and the results of other elections could. 15. affect changes in social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or laws and policies, the President has expressed apprehension towards existing trade agreements, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, signed an executive order announcing his plan to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership in favor of bilateral trade negotiations with the member countries, and has raised the possibility of imposing significant increases on tariffs on goods imported into the United States, including from China, where we and our customers have significant operations.  Changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or laws and policies governing U.S. tax laws, foreign trade, manufacturing, and development and investment in the countries where we or our customers operate could adversely affect our operating results and our business.. We have significant existing indebtedness; the restrictive covenants under our credit agreement or other limitations on financing may limit our ability to expand or pursue our business strategy or make capital expenditures; if we are forced to pay some or all of our indebtedness prior to its maturity, our financial position could be severely and adversely affected.. We have total debt as of December 29, 2017, gross of capitalized loan costs of $0.2 million, of $52.4 million under our Credit Agreement with East West Bank and City National Bank, including $9.9 outstanding under our term loan and $39.9 outstanding under our revolving loan (with $0.1 million of available borrowings) and $2.7 million under a revolving credit facility million held by Miconex, in the Czech Republic.. Our indebtedness could have adverse consequences including:. •  risk associated with any inability to satisfy debt obligations;. •  a portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; and. •  impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future, if needed.. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations as they come due, we could be forced to restructure or refinance such obligations, seek additional equity financing or sell assets, which we may not be able to do on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms.. Our Credit Agreement contains certain covenants that restrict our ability to take certain actions, including our ability to incur additional debt, including guarantees, or create liens as well as engage in certain mergers and acquisitions.. Our Credit Agreement requires us to maintain certain financial covenants, including compliance with a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge ratio and a minimum cash balance. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness, which would materially adversely affect our financial health if we are unable to access sufficient funds to repay all of the outstanding amounts.. As long as our indebtedness remains outstanding, the restrictive covenants and mandatory prepayment provisions could impair our ability to expand or pursue our business strategies or obtain additional funding.. We may not be able to fund our future capital requirements or strategic acquisitions from our operations, and financing from other sources may not be available on favorable terms or at all.. We made capital expenditures of approximately $18.5 million and $7.8 million for fiscal year 2017 and 2016, respectively related to our manufacturing facilities in the United States, China and Singapore. The amount of our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. •  the cost required to ensure appropriate IT systems;. •  the cost required to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity;. 16. •  the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts;. •  the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products;. •  the cost required to integrate our acquisitions into our business, including into our enterprise resource planning system;. •  changing manufacturing capabilities to meet new or increased customer requirements; and. •  market acceptance of our products.. We are seeking opportunities for strategic acquisitions, which may require substantial, or even more financing than we are able to put in place, or more expensive financing than may be desirable.. Given our existing indebtedness, limited availability under our new revolving line of credit and the potential tax effects of repatriating foreign cash or other factors, in order to finance our capital expenditures or any future strategic acquisitions, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing, but such financing may not be available on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. Access to capital markets has, in the past, been unavailable to companies such as ours. In addition, equity financings could be dilutive to holders of our common stock, and debt financings would likely involve additional covenants that restrict our business operations. Any potential strategic acquisition or significant capital expenditure may also require the consent of our existing lenders. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, including potential acquisitions, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause volatility in our common stock price.. Our quarterly revenue and operating results, including our gross margin, have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future for a variety of reasons which may include:. •  demand for and market acceptance of our products as a result of the cyclical nature of the industries we serve or otherwise, often resulting in reduced sales during industry downturns and increased sales during periods of industry recovery or growth;. •  overall economic conditions;. •  changes in the timing and size of orders by our customers;. •  loss of business from one or more significant customers due to strategic decisions by our customers to terminate their outsourcing relationship with us or give market share to our competitors, or due to decreased demand for our customers' products by end customers;. •  strategic consolidation by our customers;. •  cancellations and postponements of previously placed orders;. •  pricing pressure from either our competitors or our customers, resulting in the reduction of our product prices, margins or loss of market share;. •  disruptions or delays in the manufacturing of our products or in the supply of components or raw materials that are incorporated into or used to manufacture our products, thereby causing us to delay the shipment of products;. •  decreased margins for several or more quarters following the introduction of new products, especially as we introduce new subsystems;. •  delays in ramp-up in production, low yields or other problems experienced at our manufacturing facilities in China or Singapore;. •  changes in design-to-delivery cycle times;. 17. •  inability to reduce our costs quickly in step with reductions in our prices or in response to decreased demand for our products;. •  changes in our mix of products sold;. •  write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory due to a customer's bankruptcy or insolvency;. •  one-time expenses or charges associated with failed acquisition negotiations or completed acquisitions;. •  inability to control our operating costs consistent with target levels;. •  announcements by our competitors of new products, services or technological innovations, which may, among other things, render our products less competitive; and. •  geographic mix of customer orders or worldwide earnings.. As a result of the foregoing, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. Changes in the timing or terms of a small number of transactions could disproportionately affect our operating results in any particular quarter. Moreover, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet our guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, we would expect to experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock.. We have established and, as markets will allow, intend to expand our operations in Asia and Europe, which exposes us to risks associated with operating in foreign countries.. We generated approximately 53.6% and 48.0% of our sales in international markets for fiscal years 2017 and 2016, respectively. Depending on market conditions, we intend to expand our operations in Asia and Europe, principally in China and Singapore and the Czech Republic. In addition, through our acquisition of AIT, we acquired a manufacturing facility in Cebu, Philippines. The carrying amount of our fixed assets in Asia and Europe were $10.3 million and $1.6 million, respectively as of December 29, 2017.. We are exposed to political, economic, legal and other risks associated with operating in Asia and Europe, including:. •  foreign currency exchange fluctuations;. •  political, civil and economic instability;. •  tariffs and other barriers;. •  timing and availability of export licenses;. •  disruptions to our and our customers' operations due to increased risk of outbreak of diseases, such as SARS and avian flu;. •  disruptions in operations due to China's developing domestic infrastructure, including transportation and energy;. •  difficulties in developing relationships with local suppliers;. 18. •  difficulties in attracting new international customers;. •  difficulties in accounts receivable collections;. •  difficulties in staffing and managing distant international subsidiary and branch operations;. •  the burden of complying with foreign and international laws and treaties;. •  legal systems potentially subject to undue influence or corruption;. •  difficulties in transferring funds to other geographic locations; and. •  potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings to the United States.. Negative or uncertain global conditions could prevent us from accurately forecasting demand for our products which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, due to generally lower labor and materials costs in the Asian markets in which we currently operate, a shift in the mix of orders from our customers away from such Asian markets or from low cost Asian markets, such as China, to higher cost Asian markets, such as Singapore, could adversely affect our operating margins.. Our operations in Asia and Europe are also subject us to U.S. laws governing the export of equipment. These laws are complex and require us to obtain clearances for the export to Asia and Europe of certain equipment. We may fail to comply with these laws and regulations, which could require us to cease the export of certain equipment and expose us to fines or penalties.. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may not continue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, the imposition of confiscatory taxation policies, new restrictions on currency conversion or limitations on sources of supply could materially and adversely affect our Chinese operations, which could result in the partial or total loss of our investment in that country and materially and adversely affect our future operating results.. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties and any significant reductions, cancellations or delays in customer orders could cause our revenue to decline and our operating results to suffer.. Our revenue is difficult to forecast because we generally do not have a material backlog of unfilled orders and because of the short time frame within which we are often required to design, produce and deliver products to our customers. Most of our revenue in any quarter depends on customer orders for our products that we receive and fulfill in the same quarter. We do not have long-term purchase orders or contracts that contain minimum purchase commitments from our customers. Instead, we receive non-binding forecasts of the future volume of orders from our customers. Occasionally, we order and build component inventory in advance of the receipt of actual customer orders. Customers may cancel order forecasts, change production quantities from forecasted volumes or delay production for reasons beyond our control. Furthermore, reductions, cancellations or delays in customer order forecasts, which may occur for various reasons, including reduced demand for our customer's products, customer bankruptcies or customer insolvency, usually occur without penalty to, or compensation from, the customer. Reductions, cancellations or delays in forecasted orders could cause us to hold inventory longer than anticipated, which could reduce our gross profit, restrict our ability to fund our operations and cause us to incur unanticipated reductions or delays in revenue. Moreover, most of the products we manufacture are custom built for our customers and are therefore not fungible with products we sell to other customers. If we do not obtain orders as we anticipate, we could have excess component inventory for a specific product that we would not be able to sell to another customer, likely resulting in inventory write-offs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, because many of our costs are fixed in the short term, we could experience deterioration in our gross profit and operating margins when our production volumes decline.. 19. The industries in which we participate are highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our operating results will be harmed.. We face intense competition from subsystem and component manufacturers in the industries we serve. Increased competition has in the past resulted, and could in the future result, in price reductions, reduced gross margins or loss of market share, any of which would harm our operating results. We are subject to significant pricing pressure as we attempt to maintain and increase market share with our existing customers. Competitors may offer reduced prices or introduce new products for the markets currently served by our products. These products may have better performance, lower prices and achieve broader market acceptance than our products. Further, OEMs typically own the design rights to their products and may provide these designs to other subsystem manufacturers. If our competitors obtain proprietary rights to these designs such that we are unable to obtain the designs necessary to manufacture products for our OEM customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. Our competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products, and reduce prices to increase market share. Moreover, there may be merger and acquisition activity among our competitors and potential competitors that may provide our competitors and potential competitors an advantage over us by enabling them to expand their product offerings and service capabilities to meet a broader range of customer needs. Further, if one of our customers develops or acquires the internal capability to develop and produce critical subsystems that we produce, the loss of that customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The introduction of new technologies and new market entrants may also increase competitive pressures.. If our new products are not accepted by OEMs or other customers or if we are unable to obtain historical margins on our new products, our operating results would be adversely impacted.. We design, develop and market critical subsystems to OEMs and other customers. The introduction of new products is inherently risky because it is difficult to foresee the adoption of new standards, coordinate our technical personnel and strategic relationships and win acceptance of new products by OEMs and other customers. We may not be able to recoup design and development expenditures if our new products are not accepted by OEMs or other customers. Newly introduced products typically carry lower gross margins than existing products for several or more quarters following their introduction. If any of our new systems or subsystems are not successful in the market, or if we are unable to obtain gross margins on new products that are similar to the gross margins we have historically achieved, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our business may be adversely affected by information technology, disruptions, including impairing our ability to effectively deliver our products, which could cause us to lose customers and harm our results of operations.. The manufacture and delivery of our products and our financial reporting depends on the continuing operation of our technology infrastructure and systems, particularly our data center located in California. Any damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our ability to manufacture or deliver products on agreed upon lead times, or at all, on a local or worldwide basis, or adversely affect our impact to accurately and timely report our financial results. Interruptions could reduce our sales and profits, and our reputation could be damaged if people believe our systems are unreliable. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, hardware or software failures, telecommunications failures, cybersecurity attacks, and similar events. The critical components of the system are not redundant and we currently do not have a backup data center. Accordingly, the risk associated with such events beyond our control is heightened.. Cybersecurity attacks, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data (our own or that of third parties). Although we have adopted certain measures to mitigate potential risks to our systems from information technology-related disruptions, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could. 20. potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, misappropriation, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, the attractiveness of our products to customers could be permanently harmed. Any steps we take to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems may be expensive, reduce our operating margin and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled interruptions.. Acquisitions could result in operating and integration difficulties, dilution, margin deterioration, diversion of management's attention, and other consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products, services, technologies or market access. We expect that management will evaluate potential strategic transactions regularly with its advisors and our board of directors in the ordinary course of business. We may not be successful in negotiating the terms of potential acquisitions or financing potential acquisitions, and our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other challenges associated with an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer retention issues. In addition, we may not be successful in effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. The areas where we face risks include:. •  Management of the larger, more complex, combined business, including integrating supply and distribution channels, computer and accounting systems, and other aspects of operations;. •  Deterioration of gross margins due to the acquisition of the same customer base resulting in reduced pricing leverage;. •  Integration of the capabilities of the acquired businesses while maintaining focus on providing consistently high quality products;. •  Incorporation of different financial and reporting controls, processes, systems and technologies into our existing business environment;. •  Unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the acquisitions for which we do not have recourse under their respective agreements;. •  Performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management's attention from the company's operations;. •  Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired business into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire;. •  Retention of customers and partners of acquired business; and/or. •  Difficulties associated with the transition of customers into our existing business.. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities and substantial costs, and materially harm our business generally.. 21. Our acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, impairment charges and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions or investments may not materialize. Even if an acquisition or other investment is not completed, we may divert significant management time and effort and financial cost in evaluating such acquisition or investment, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, due to limited liquidity in the credit market and our existing leverage, the financing of any such acquisition may be difficult to obtain, and the terms of such financing may not be favorable.. If we were required to write down all or part of our goodwill, our net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected.. We had $85.2 million of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 29, 2017. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net tangible and finite lived, identifiable intangible assets acquired in business combinations. If our market capitalization drops significantly below the amount of net equity recorded on our balance sheet, it could indicate a decline in our value and would require us to further evaluate whether our goodwill has been impaired. During the fourth quarter of each year, we perform an annual review of our goodwill to determine if it has become impaired, in which case we would write down the impaired portion of our goodwill. We also evaluate goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If we were required to write down all or a significant part of our goodwill, our financial results and net worth could be materially adversely affected.. Our business is largely dependent on the know-how of our employees, and we generally do not have an intellectual property position that is protected by patents.. Our business is largely dependent upon our design, engineering, manufacturing and testing know-how. We rely on a combination of trade secrets and contractual confidentiality provisions and, to a much lesser extent, patents, copyrights and trademarks to protect our proprietary rights. Confidentiality agreements with our employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. Accordingly, our intellectual property position is more vulnerable than it would be if it were protected primarily by patents. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our proprietary rights, and, in the event infringement or breach of our proprietary rights occurs, our competitive position in the market may be harmed. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies and know-how. Further, since our customers generally own the designs and other intellectual property to the products we manufacture, we cannot prevent them from licensing such designs and other intellectual property to our competitors for the manufacture of such products.. Third parties have claimed and may in the future claim we are infringing their intellectual property, which could subject us to litigation or licensing expenses, and we may be prevented from selling our products if any such claims prove successful.. We have in the past and may in the future receive claims that our products, processes or technologies infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. In addition, we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may be applicable to our products. Any litigation regarding our patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The complexity of the technology involved in our products and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement may also require us to enter into costly license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development, manufacture and sale of certain of our products if any such claims prove successful. We also rely on design specifications and other intellectual property of our customers in the manufacture of products for such customers. While our customer agreements generally provide for indemnification of us by our customers if we are subjected to litigation for third-party claims of infringement of such customer intellectual property, such indemnification provisions may not be sufficient to fully protect us from such claims, or our customers may breach such indemnification obligations to us, which could result in costly litigation to defend against such claims or enforce our contractual rights to such indemnification.. 22. If we do not keep pace with developments in the industries we serve and with technological innovation generally, our products may not be competitive.. Rapid technological innovation in the markets we serve requires us to anticipate and respond quickly to evolving customer requirements and could render our current product offerings and technology obsolete. Technological innovations are inherently complex. We must devote resources to technology development in order to keep pace with such rapidly evolving technologies. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to design, engineer and manufacture products that meet the changing needs of our customers. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in design, engineering and manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. If we are unable to integrate new technical specifications into competitive product designs, develop the technical capabilities necessary to manufacture new products or make necessary modifications or enhancements to existing products, our business prospects could be harmed.. The timely development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process which requires that we:. •  design innovative and performance-enhancing features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors;. •  identify emerging technological trends in the industries we serve, including new standards for our products;. •  accurately identify and design new products to meet market needs;. •  collaborate with OEMs to design and develop products on a timely and cost-effective basis;. •  ramp-up production of new products, especially new subsystems, in a timely manner and with acceptable yields at acceptable costs;. •  successfully manage development production cycles; and. •  respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others.. If we are unsuccessful in keeping pace with technological developments for the reasons above or other reasons, our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We must achieve design wins to retain our existing customers and to obtain new customers.. New capital equipment typically has a lifespan of several years, and OEMs frequently specify which systems, subsystems, components and instruments are to be used in their equipment. Once a specific system, subsystem, component or instrument is incorporated into a piece of capital equipment, it will likely continue to be incorporated into that piece of equipment for at least several months before the OEM would be in a position to switch to the product of another supplier. Accordingly, it is important that our products are designed into the new capital equipment of OEMs, which we refer to as a design win, in order to retain our competitive position with existing customers and to obtain new customers.. We incur technology development and sales expenses with no assurance that our products will ultimately be designed into an OEM's capital equipment. Further, developing new customer relationships, as well as maintaining and increasing our market share with existing customers, requires a substantial investment of our sales, engineering and management resources without any assurance from prospective customers that they will place significant orders. We believe that OEMs often consider long-term relationships in selecting and placing orders with suppliers. Accordingly, we may have difficulty achieving design wins from OEMs that are not currently our customers. Our operating results and potential growth could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve design wins with leading OEMs.. 23. Defects in our products could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products, cause the unintended release of hazardous materials, result in potentially costly litigation, indemnification liability or unexpected warranty claims.. A number of factors, including design flaws, material and component failures, workmanship issues, contamination in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and unknown sensitivities to process conditions, such as temperature and humidity, as well as equipment failures, may cause our products to contain undetected errors or defects. Problems with our products may:. •  cause delays in product introductions and shipments for us or our customers;. •  result in increased costs and diversion of development resources;. •  cause us to incur increased charges due to unusable inventory;. •  require design modifications;. •  result in liability for the unintended release of hazardous materials or other damages to our or our customers' property;. •  create claims for rework, replacement and/or damages under our contracts with customers, as well as indemnification claims from customers;. •  decrease market acceptance of, or customer satisfaction with, our products, which could result in decreased sales and product returns; or. •  result in lower yields for semiconductor manufacturers.. If any of our products contain defects or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation might be damaged and customers might be reluctant to buy our products. We may also face a higher rate of product defects as we increase our production levels. Product defects could result in warranty and indemnification liability, the loss of existing customers or impair our ability to attract new customers. In addition, we may not find defects or failures in our products until after they are installed in a manufacturer's fabrication facility. We may have to invest significant capital and other resources to correct these problems. Our current or potential customers also might seek to recover from us any losses resulting from defects or failures in our products. Hazardous materials flow through and are controlled by our products and an unintended release of these materials could result in serious injury or death. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or pay significant damages or indemnification claims.. The technology labor market is very competitive, and our business will suffer if we are unable to effectively hire, promote and retain key personnel.. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key executive officers, as well as our research, engineering, sales, manufacturing and administrative personnel, most of whom are not subject to employment or non-competition agreements. In addition, competition for qualified personnel in the technology industry is intense, and we operate in geographic locations in which labor markets are particularly competitive.. Our business is particularly dependent on expertise which only a limited number of engineers possess. The loss of any of our key employees and officers, including our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, any of our Senior Vice Presidents or any of our senior managers, or the failure to attract, promote and retain qualified employees, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Management transition also creates uncertainties and could harm our business. Disruption to our organization as a result of executive management transition could divert the executive management's attention away from certain key areas of our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. The challenges of employee retention has also increased during the integration process with the companies we have acquired because of the necessity of combining personnel with varied business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures and objectives, and several acquired employees, including members of the acquired companies' senior management, have left our company. The process of integrating operations and making such adjustments could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses and the loss of key personnel. Employee uncertainty, lack of focus or turnover during the integration process may also disrupt our businesses.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and could negatively impact the price of our stock.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting. The process of designing, implementing, maintaining and updating our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant attention from management and company resources. In addition, following the expiration of applicable grace periods, we are required to evaluate and report on the internal controls of the companies we acquire, and the attestation report we are required to obtain from our independent registered public accounting firm must include the internal control over financial reporting of the companies we acquire. Integrating acquired companies' internal control frameworks into the Company and upgrading acquired companies' controls to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required and will require substantial resources, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully or effectively maintain adequate controls over our financial processes at our acquired companies, or for our consolidated business. In addition, even though we have concluded, and our independent registered public accounting firm has concurred, that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as of December 29, 2017, because of its inherent limitations may not be effective as of future periods. Failure to maintain existing or implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market's confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price.. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our international sales are denominated primarily, though not entirely, in U.S. dollars. Many of the costs and expenses associated with our Chinese subsidiaries, Singaporean and Czech subsidiaries are paid in Chinese Renminbi, Singapore dollars, and Euro respectively and we expect our exposure to Chinese Renminbi, Singapore dollars and Euro to increase as we increase production in those facilities. In addition, purchases of some of our components are denominated in Japanese Yen and Euro. Changes in exchange rates among other currencies in which our revenue or costs are denominated and the U.S. dollar may affect our revenue, cost of sales and operating margins.. The Company uses derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place.. If environmental contamination were to occur in one of our manufacturing facilities, we could be subject to substantial liabilities.. We use substances regulated under various foreign, domestic, federal, state and local environmental laws in our manufacturing facilities. In addition, we may not be aware of or in compliance with all environmental laws or regulations that could subject us to liability in the U.S. or internationally. Our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental laws could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines or the suspension or termination of the production of our products, and thus a material adverse impact on our business.. 25. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods, and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made disruptions, such as terrorism.. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by natural disasters, including fires and earthquakes. We have facilities in areas with above average seismic activity, such as our manufacturing facility in South San Francisco, California and our manufacturing and headquarters facilities in Hayward, California. If any of our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, reduce revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. In addition, we have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, extended power outages at our facilities. We do not carry insurance policies that cover potential losses caused by earthquakes or other natural disasters or power loss.. In addition, disruption in supply resulting from natural disasters or other causalities or catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, severe weather such as storms or floods, fires, labor disruptions, power outages, terrorist attacks or political unrest, may result in certain of our suppliers being unable to deliver sufficient quantities of components or raw materials at all or in a timely manner, disruptions in our operations or disruptions in our customers' operations. For example, in 2011, the northern region of Japan experienced a severe earthquake followed by a tsunami. These geological events caused significant damage in that region and adversely affected Japan's infrastructure and economy. Some of our suppliers are located in Japan and they experienced, and may experience in the future, shutdowns or disruptions as a result of these types of events, and their operations may be negatively impacted by these events. Many of our customers and suppliers are also located in California, and may be subject to the same risk of seismic activity as described for us above.. To the extent that natural disasters or other calamities or causalities should result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the delay in the manufacture or shipment of our products or services, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected.. Changes in tax rates or tax assets and liabilities could affect results of operations.. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Our future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the: (1) applicable tax laws; (2) amount and composition of pre-tax income in countries with differing tax rates; or (3) valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act Cuts and Jobs (\"TCJA\") was signed into law. The TCJA contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, additional limitations on the tax deductibility of interest, substantial changes to the taxation of foreign earnings, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits. The Company has made reasonable estimates of the financial impact of the TCJA on the Company. However, the estimates are provisional and a change in estimate can have an impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions, as well as the trading price of our Common Stock. UCT will continue to analyze the effects of the TCJA on its financial statements and operations. Additional impacts from the enactment of the TCJA will be recorded as they are identified during the one-year measurement period as provided for in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 118.. In addition, we are subject to regular examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and from time to time we initiate amendments to previously filed tax returns. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations and amendments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, which requires estimates and judgments. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the tax authorities will agree with such estimates. We may have to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in the estimates, which may be time-consuming and expensive. There can be no assurance that we will be successful or that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 26. The market for our stock is subject to significant fluctuation.. The size of our public market capitalization is relatively small, and the average volume of our shares that are traded is relatively low. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:. •  quarterly variations in our operating results;. •  our ability to successfully introduce new products and manage new product transitions;. •  changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts;. •  speculation in the press or investment community;. •  strategic actions by us, our customers or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. •  announcements relating to any of our key customers, significant suppliers or the semiconductor manufacturing and capital equipment industry generally;. •  general market conditions;. •  the effects of war and terrorist attacks; and. •  domestic and international economic or political factors unrelated to our performance.. The stock markets in general, and the markets for technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Certain regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012 the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. These requirements require us to perform on-going due diligence efforts on our supply chain and require public disclosure of the nature and results of these efforts. We filed our most recent conflict minerals report on Form SD on May 31, 2017 reporting that we could not yet determine whether the conflict minerals we source were, directly or indirectly, used to finance or benefit armed groups in the Covered Countries. There have been and there will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Complying with these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products and result in substantial additional costs. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering \"conflict free\" conflict minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. In addition, if we are unable to comply with these rules, we could be subject to enforcement actions by the Securities and Exchange Commission and liability under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which could result in material adverse consequences to our business, as well as significant fines and penalties.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. 27. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We do not intend to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Additionally, the terms of our credit agreement also restrict our ability to pay dividends. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future.. From time to time, we may become involved in other litigation and regulatory proceedings, which could require significant attention from our management and result in significant expense to us and disruptions in our business.. In addition to any litigation related to our intellectual property rights, we may in the future be named as a defendant from time to time in other lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business, such as commercial contract claims, employment claims and tax examinations, some of which may claim significant damages or cause us reputational harm. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceeding. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or limit our ability to engage in certain of our business activities. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceeding, such proceedings are often expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations and require significant attention from our management. As a result, any such lawsuits or proceedings could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, on January 29, 2018, we disclosed that the former shareholders of Miconex are disputing the Company's determination that Miconex failed to achieve the specified performance target applicable to the potential cash \"earn-out\" payments under the acquisition agreement for the second annual performance period ended July 2017 (the \"Performance Target\"). The Company expects the dispute to be resolved pursuant to the dispute resolution provisions of the acquisition agreement. We believes that Miconex did not achieve the Performance Target, and therefore no earn-out payment is owed by us. We intend to vigorously defend our position. However, there can be no assurance that the dispute will be resolved in our favor. If the dispute is resolved adversely to us, the Company would expect to record a charge to Interest and Other Income (Expense), net of not more than $1.0 million."
