[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Financial-services companies routinely encounter and address risks and uncertainties. In the following paragraphs, the Company describes some of the principal risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition (including capital and liquidity), or prospects or the value of or return on an investment in the Company. These risks and uncertainties, however, are not the only ones faced by the Company. Other risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to the Company that it has failed to identify, or that it currently considers immaterial may adversely affect the Company as well. Except where otherwise noted, the risk factors address risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company as well as its subsidiaries. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (which can be found in Part II, Item 7 of this report beginning on page 20) and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (which can be found in Part II, Item 8 of this report beginning on page 54).. The levels of, or changes in, interest rates could affect the Company's business or performance. The Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition are highly dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on earning assets (such as loans and investments) and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is significantly affected by market interest rates, which in turn are influenced by monetary and fiscal policies, general economic conditions, the regulatory environment, competitive pressures, and expectations about future changes in interest rates. The policies and regulations of the federal government, in general, and the FRB, in particular, have a substantial impact on market interest rates. See \"Government Monetary and Fiscal Policies\" in Part I, Item 1 of this report beginning on page 4, which is incorporated by reference herein. The Company may be adversely affected by policies, regulations, or events that have the effect of altering the difference between long-term and short-term interest rates (commonly known as the yield curve), depressing the interest rates associated with its earning assets to levels near the rates associated with its interest expense, or changing the spreads among different interest-rate indices. The Company's customers and counterparties also may be negatively impacted by the levels of, or changes in, interest rates, which could increase the risk of delinquency or default on obligations to the Company. The levels of, or changes in, interest rates, moreover, may have an adverse effect on the value of the Company's investment portfolio, which includes long-term municipal bonds with fixed interest rates, and other financial instruments, the return on or demand for loans, the prepayment speed of loans (including, without limitation, the pace of pay-downs expected or forecasted for commercial real estate and construction loans), the cost or availability of deposits or other funding sources, or the purchase or sale of investment securities. In addition, a rapid change in interest rates could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of differences in the maturities of the Company's assets and liabilities. Further, if laws impacting taxation and interest rates materially change, or if new laws are enacted, certain of the Company's services and products, including municipal bonds, may be subject to less favorable tax treatment or otherwise adversely impacted.  The level of, and changes in, market interest rates - and, as a result, these risks and uncertainties - are beyond the Company's control. The dynamics among these risks and uncertainties are also challenging to assess and manage. For example, while the highly accommodative monetary policy currently adopted by the FRB may benefit the Company to some degree by spurring economic activity among its customers, such a policy may ultimately cause the Company more harm by inhibiting its ability to grow or sustain net interest income.. 10. See \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Interest Rate Risk\" in Part II, Item 7A of this report beginning on page 46 for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages interest-rate risk.. Weak or deteriorating economic conditions, more liberal origination or underwriting standards, or financial or systemic shocks could increase the Company's credit risk and adversely affect its lending or other banking businesses and the value of its loans or investment securities. The Company's business and results of operations depend significantly on general economic conditions. When those conditions are weak or deteriorating in any of the markets or regions where the Company operates, its business or performance could be adversely affected. The Company's lending and other banking businesses, in particular, are susceptible to weak or deteriorating economic conditions, which could result in reduced loan demand or utilization rates and at the same time increased delinquencies or defaults. These kinds of conditions also could dampen the demand for products and other services in the Company's investment-management, asset-servicing, insurance, brokerage, or related businesses. Increased delinquencies or defaults could result as well from the Company adopting - for strategic, competitive, or other reasons - more liberal origination or underwriting standards for extensions of credit or other dealings with its customers or counterparties. If delinquencies or defaults on the Company's loans or investment securities increase, their value and the income derived from them could be adversely affected, and the Company could incur administrative and other costs in seeking a recovery on its claims and any collateral. Weak or deteriorating economic conditions also may negatively impact the market value and liquidity of the Company's investment securities, and the Company may be required to record additional impairment charges if investment securities suffer a decline in value that is determined to be other-than-temporary.  In addition, to the extent that loan charge-offs exceed estimates, an increase to the amount of provision expense related to the allowance for loan losses would reduce the Company's income. See \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Credit Risk Management\" in Part II, Item 7A of this report beginning on page 46 for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages credit risk. A financial or systemic shock and a failure of a significant counterparty or a significant group of counterparties could negatively impact the Company, possibly to a severe degree, due to its role as a financial intermediary and the interconnectedness of the financial system.. A meaningful part of the Company's loan portfolio is secured by real estate and, as a result, could be negatively impacted by deteriorating or volatile real-estate markets or associated environmental liabilities. At December 31, 2017, 43.7 percent of the Company's aggregate loan portfolio - comprised of commercial real-estate loans (representing 31.6 percent of the aggregate loan portfolio), construction real-estate loans (representing 6.4 percent of the aggregate loan portfolio), and residential real-estate loans (representing 5.7 percent of the aggregate loan portfolio) - was primarily secured by interests in real estate located in the States where the Company operates. Other credit extended by the Company may be secured in part by real estate as well.  Real-estate values in the markets where this collateral is located may be different from, and in some instances worse than, real-estate values in other markets or in the United States as a whole and may be affected by general economic conditions and a variety of other factors outside of the control of the Company or its customers. Any deterioration or volatility in these real-estate markets could result in increased delinquencies or defaults, could adversely affect the value of the loans and the income to be derived from them, could give rise to unreimbursed recovery costs, and could reduce the demand for new or additional credit and related banking products and other services, all to the detriment of the Company's business and performance. In addition, if hazardous or toxic substances were found on any real estate that the Company acquires in foreclosure or otherwise, substantial liability may arise for compliance and remediation costs, personal injury, or property damage.. Challenging business, economic, or market conditions could adversely affect the Company's fee-based banking, investment-management, asset-servicing, or other businesses. The Company's fee-based banking, investment-management, asset-servicing, and other businesses are driven by wealth creation in the economy, robust market activity, monetary and fiscal stability, and positive investor, business, and consumer sentiment. Economic downturns, market disruptions, high unemployment or underemployment, unsustainable debt levels, depressed real-estate markets, or other challenging business, economic, or market conditions could adversely affect these businesses and their results. If the funds or other groups that are clients of UMBFS were to encounter similar difficulties, UMBFS's revenue could suffer. The Company's bank-card revenue is driven primarily by transaction volumes in business and consumer spending that generate interchange fees, and any of these conditions could dampen those volumes. Other fee-based banking businesses that could be adversely affected include trading, asset management, custody, trust, and cash and treasury management.. The Company's investment-management and asset-servicing businesses could be negatively impacted by declines in assets under management or administration or by shifts in the mix of assets under management or administration.  The revenues of the Company's investment-management businesses are highly dependent on. 11. advisory fee income.  These businesses generally earn higher fees on equity-based or alternative investments and strategies and lower fees on fixed income investments and strategies. Advisory-fee income may be negatively impacted by an absolute decline in assets under management or by a shift in the mix of assets under management from equities or alternatives to fixed income. Such a decline or shift could be caused or influenced by any number of factors, such as underperformance in absolute or relative terms, loss of key advisers or other talent, changes in investing preferences or trends, market downturns or volatility, drops in investor confidence, reputational damage, increased competition, or general economic conditions. Any of these factors also could affect clients of UMBFS, and if this were to cause a decline in assets under administration at UMBFS or an adverse shift in the mix of those assets, the performance of UMBFS could suffer.. To the extent that the Company continues to maintain a sizeable portfolio of available-for-sale investment securities, its income may be adversely affected and its reported equity more volatile.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company's securities portfolio totaled approximately $7.6 billion, which represented approximately 35.1 percent of its total assets.  Regulatory restrictions and the Company's investment policies generally result in the acquisition of securities with lower yields than loans.  For the year-ended December 31, 2017, the weighted average yield of the Company's securities portfolio was 2.5 percent as compared to 4.3 percent for its loan portfolio.  Accordingly, to the extent that the Company is unable to effectively deploy its funds to originate or acquire loans or other assets with higher yields than those of its investment securities, the Company's income may be negatively impacted.  Additionally, approximately $6.3 billion, or 81.9 percent, of the Company's investment securities are classified as available for sale and reported at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on these securities are excluded from earnings and reported in other comprehensive income, which in turn affects the Company's reported equity.  As a result, to the extent that the Company continues to maintain a significant portfolio of available-for-sale securities, its reported equity may experience greater volatility.. The trading volume in the Company's common stock at times may be low, which could adversely affect liquidity and stock price. Although the Company's common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume in the stock may at times be low and, in relative terms, less than that of other financial-services companies.  A public trading market that is deep, liquid, and orderly depends on the presence in the marketplace of a large number of willing buyers and sellers and narrow bid-ask spreads.  These market features, in turn, depend on a number of factors, such as the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions, over which the Company has no control.  During any period of lower trading volume in the Company's common stock, the stock price could be more volatile, and the liquidity of the stock could suffer.. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry, and its business or performance could be adversely affected by the legal, regulatory and supervisory frameworks applicable to it, changes in those frameworks, and other legal and regulatory risks and uncertainties. The Company is subject to expansive legal and regulatory frameworks in the United States - at the federal, State, and local levels - and in the foreign jurisdictions where its business segments operate.  In addition, the Company is subject to the direct supervision of government authorities charged with overseeing the taxation of domestic companies and the kinds of financial activities conducted by the Company in its business segments.  These legal, regulatory, and supervisory frameworks are often designed to protect public or private interests that differ from the interests of the Company's shareholders or non-deposit creditors. See \"Government Monetary and Fiscal Policies\" and \"Regulation and Supervision\" in Part I, Item 1 of this report beginning on page 4, which is incorporated by reference herein.  We believe that government scrutiny of all financial-services companies has increased, fundamental changes have been made to the banking, securities, and other laws that govern financial services (with the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III being two of the more prominent examples), and a host of related business practices have been reexamined and reshaped.  As a result, the Company expects to continue devoting increased time and resources to risk management, compliance, and regulatory change management.  Risks also exist that government authorities could judge the Company's business or other practices as unsafe, unsound, or otherwise unadvisable and bring formal or informal corrective or enforcement actions against it, including fines or other penalties and directives to change its products or other services.  For practical or other reasons, the Company may not be able to effectively defend itself against these actions, and they in turn could give rise to litigation by private plaintiffs.  Further, if the laws, rules, and regulations materially adversely affect the Company, including any changes that would negatively impact the tax treatment of the Company, the Company's products and services or the Company's shareholders, the Company may be adversely impacted.  All of these and other regulatory risks and uncertainties could adversely affect the Company's reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects.. Regulatory or supervisory requirements, future growth, operating results, or strategic plans may prompt the Company to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available at all or on favorable. 12. terms and, if raised, may be dilutive. The Company is subject to safety-and-soundness and capital-adequacy standards under applicable law and to the direct supervision of government authorities. See \"Regulation and Supervision\" in Part I, Item 1 of this report beginning on page 4. If the Company is not or is at risk of not satisfying these standards or applicable supervisory requirements - whether due to inadequate operating results that erode capital, future growth that outpaces the accumulation of capital through earnings, or otherwise - the Company may be required to raise capital, restrict dividends, or limit originations of certain types of commercial and mortgage loans. If the Company is required to limit originations of certain types of commercial and mortgage loans, it would thereby reduce the amount of credit available to borrowers and limit opportunities to earn interest income from the loan portfolio.  The Company also may be compelled to raise capital if regulatory or supervisory requirements change. In addition, the Company may elect to raise capital for strategic reasons even when it is not required to do so. The Company's ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all will depend on general economic and market conditions, which are outside of its control, and on the Company's operating and financial performance.  Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms.  An inability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms could damage the performance and value of its business, prompt regulatory intervention, and harm its reputation, and if the condition were to persist for any appreciable period of time, its viability as a going concern could be threatened. If the Company is able to raise capital and does so by issuing common stock or convertible securities, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders could be diluted, and the market price of our common stock could decline.. The market price of the Company's common stock could be adversely impacted by banking, antitrust, or corporate laws that have or are perceived as having an anti-takeover effect. Banking and antitrust laws, including associated regulatory-approval requirements, impose significant restrictions on the acquisition of direct or indirect control over any bank holding company, including the Company. Acquisition of ten percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or depository institution, including shares of our common stock, generally creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer \"controls\" the bank holding company or depository institution. Also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including our bank.. In addition, a non-negotiated acquisition of control over the Company may be inhibited by provisions of the Company's restated articles of incorporation and bylaws that have been adopted in conformance with applicable corporate law, such as the ability to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, terms, conditions and privileges of such preferred stock without stockholder approval. If any of these restrictions were to operate or be perceived as operating to hinder or deter a potential acquirer for the Company, the market price of the Company's common stock could suffer.. The Company's business relies on systems, employees, service providers, and counterparties, and failures or errors by any of them or other operational risks could adversely affect the Company. The Company engages in a variety of businesses in diverse markets and relies on systems, employees, service providers, and counterparties to properly oversee, administer, and process a high volume of transactions. This gives rise to meaningful operational risk - including the risk of fraud by employees or outside parties, unauthorized access to its premises or systems, errors in processing, failures of technology, breaches of internal controls or compliance safeguards, inadequate integration of acquisitions, human error, and breakdowns in business continuity plans.  Significant financial, business, reputational, regulatory, or other harm could come to the Company as a result of these or related risks and uncertainties.  For example, the Company could be negatively impacted if financial, accounting, data-processing, or other systems were to fail or not fully perform their functions. The Company also could be adversely affected if key personnel or a significant number of employees were to become unavailable due to a pandemic, natural disaster, war, act of terrorism, accident, or other reason.  These same risks arise as well in connection with the systems and employees of the service providers and counterparties on whom the Company depends as well as their own third-party service providers and counterparties. See \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Operational Risk\" in Part II, Item 7A of this report beginning on page 46 for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages operational risk.. Cyber incidents and other security breaches at the Company, at the Company's service providers or counterparties, or in the business community or markets may negatively impact the Company's business or performance. In the ordinary course of its business, the Company collects, stores, and transmits sensitive, confidential, or proprietary data and other information, including intellectual property, business information, funds-transfer instructions, and the personally identifiable information of its customers and employees. The secure processing, storage, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to the Company's operations and. 13. reputation, and if any of this information were mishandled, misused, improperly accessed, lost, or stolen or if the Company's operations were disrupted, the Company could suffer significant financial, business, reputational, regulatory, or other damage.  For example, despite security measures, the Company's information technology and infrastructure may be breached through cyber-attacks, computer viruses or malware, pretext calls, electronic phishing, or other means. These risks and uncertainties are rapidly evolving and increasing in complexity, and the Company's failure to effectively mitigate them could negatively impact its business and operations.. Service providers and counterparties also present a source of risk to the Company if their own security measures or other systems or infrastructure were to be breached or otherwise fail. Likewise, a cyber-attack or other security breach affecting the business community, the markets, or parts of them may cycle or cascade through the financial system and adversely affect the Company or its service providers or counterparties. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond the Company's control.. Even when an attempted cyber incident or other security breach is successfully avoided or thwarted, the Company may need to expend substantial resources in doing so, may be required to take actions that could adversely affect customer satisfaction or behavior, and may be exposed to reputational damage. If a breach were to occur, moreover, the Company could be exposed to contractual claims, regulatory actions, and litigation by private plaintiffs, and would additionally suffer reputational harm.  Despite the Company's efforts to safeguard the integrity of systems and controls and to manage third-party risk, the Company may not be able to anticipate or implement effective measures to prevent all security breaches or all risks to the sensitive, confidential, or proprietary information that it or its service providers or counterparties collect, store, or transmit.. The Company is heavily reliant on technology, and a failure or delay in effectively implementing technology initiatives or anticipating future technology needs or demands could adversely affect the Company's business or performance. Like most financial-services companies, the Company significantly depends on technology to deliver its products and other services and to otherwise conduct business. To remain technologically competitive and operationally efficient, the Company invests in system upgrades, new solutions, and other technology initiatives, including for both internally and externally hosted solutions.  Many of these initiatives have a significant duration, are tied to critical systems, and require substantial internal and external resources. Although the Company takes steps to mitigate the risks and uncertainties associated with these initiatives, there is no guarantee that they will be implemented on time, within budget, or without negative operational or customer impact. The Company also may not succeed in anticipating its future technology needs, the technology demands of its customers, or the competitive landscape for technology. In addition, the Company relies upon the expertise and support of service providers to help implement, maintain and/or service certain of its core technology solutions.  If the Company cannot effectively manage these service providers, the service parties fail to materially perform, or the Company was to falter in any of the other noted areas, its business or performance could be negatively impacted.. Negative publicity outside of the Company's control, or its failure to successfully manage issues arising from its conduct or in connection with the financial-services industry generally, could damage the Company's reputation and adversely affect its business or performance. The performance and value of the Company's business could be negatively impacted by any reputational harm that it may suffer. This harm could arise from negative publicity outside of its control or its failure to adequately address issues arising from its conduct or in connection with the financial-services industry generally.  Risks to the Company's reputation could arise in any number of contexts - for example, cyber incidents and other security breaches, mergers and acquisitions, lending or investment-management practices, actual or potential conflicts of interest, failures to prevent money laundering, corporate governance, and unethical behavior and practices committed by competitors in the financial services industry.. The Company faces intense competition from other financial-services and financial-services technology companies, and competitive pressures could adversely affect the Company's business or performance. The Company faces intense competition in each of its business segments and in all of its markets and geographic regions, and the Company expects competitive pressures to intensify in the future - especially in light of recent legislative and regulatory initiatives, technological innovations that alter the barriers to entry, current economic and market conditions, and government monetary and fiscal policies.  Competition with financial-services technology companies, or technology companies partnering with financial-services companies, may be particularly intense, due to, among other things, differing regulatory environments.  See \"Competition\" in Part I, Item 1 of this report beginning on page 3. Competitive pressures may drive the Company to take actions that the Company might otherwise eschew, such as lowering the interest rates or fees on loans or raising the interest rates on deposits in order to keep or attract high-quality customers. These pressures also may accelerate actions that the Company might. 14. otherwise elect to defer, such as substantial investments in technology or infrastructure. The Company has certain businesses that utilize wholesale models which can lead to customer concentrations for those businesses that, if negatively impacted by competitive pressures, could affect the Company's fee income. Whatever the reason, actions that the Company takes in response to competition may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. These consequences could be exacerbated if the Company is not successful in introducing new products and other services, achieving market acceptance of its products and other services, developing and maintaining a strong customer base, or prudently managing expenses.. The Company's risk-management and compliance programs or functions may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss. The Company maintains an enterprise risk-management program that is designed to identify, quantify, monitor, report, and control the risks that it faces. These include interest-rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk, operational risk, reputational risk, and compliance risk. The Company also maintains a compliance program to identify, measure, assess, and report on its adherence to applicable law, policies, and procedures. While the Company assesses and improves these programs on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that its frameworks or models for risk management, compliance, and related controls will effectively mitigate risk and limit losses in its business. If conditions or circumstances arise that expose flaws or gaps in the Company's risk-management or compliance programs or if its controls break down, the performance and value of the Company's business could be adversely affected. The Company could be negatively impacted as well if, despite adequate programs being in place, its risk-management or compliance personnel are ineffective in executing them and mitigating risk and loss.. Liquidity is essential to the Company and its business or performance could be adversely affected by constraints in, or increased costs for, funding.  The Company defines liquidity as the ability to fund increases in assets and meet obligations as they come due, all without incurring unacceptable losses.   Banks are especially vulnerable to liquidity risk because of their role in the maturity transformation of demand or short-term deposits into longer-term loans or other extensions of credit.  The Company, like other financial-services companies, relies to a significant extent on external sources of funding (such as deposits and borrowings) for the liquidity needed to conduct its business. A number of factors beyond the Company's control, however, could have a detrimental impact on the availability or cost of that funding and thus on its liquidity. These include market disruptions, changes in its credit ratings or the sentiment of its investors, the state of the regulatory environment and monetary and fiscal policies, declines in the value of its investment securities, the loss of substantial deposits or customer relationships, financial or systemic shocks, significant counterparty failures, and reputational damage. Unexpected declines or limits on the dividends declared and paid by the Company's subsidiaries also could adversely affect its liquidity position. While the Company's policies and controls are designed to ensure that it maintains adequate liquidity to conduct its business in the ordinary course even in a stressed environment, there can be no assurance that its liquidity position will never become compromised. In such an event, the Company may be required to sell assets at a loss in order to continue its operations. This could damage the performance and value of its business, prompt regulatory intervention, and harm its reputation, and if the condition were to persist for any appreciable period of time, its viability as a going concern could be threatened. See \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Liquidity Risk\" in Part II, Item 7A of this report beginning on page 46 for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages liquidity risk.. If the Company's subsidiaries are unable to make dividend payments or distributions to the Company, it may be unable to satisfy its obligations to counterparties or creditors or make dividend payments to its stockholders. The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its bank and nonbank subsidiaries and depends on dividend payments and distributions from those subsidiaries to fund its obligations to counterparties and creditors and its dividend payments to stockholders. See \"Regulation and Supervision - Requirements Affecting the Relationships among the Company, Its Subsidiaries, and Other Affiliates\" in Part I, Item 1 of this report beginning on page 6. Any of the Company's subsidiaries, however, may be unable to make dividend payments or distributions to the Company, including as a result of a deterioration in the subsidiary's performance, investments in the subsidiary's own future growth, or regulatory or supervisory requirements. If any subsidiary were unable to remain viable as a going concern, moreover, the Company's right to participate in a distribution of assets would be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors (including, in the case of the Bank, its depositors and the FDIC).. An inability to attract, retain, or motivate qualified employees could adversely affect the Company's business or performance.  Skilled employees are the Company's most important resource, and competition for talented people is intense.  Even though compensation is among the Company's highest expenses, it may not be able to locate and hire the best people, keep them with the Company, or properly motivate them to perform at a high level. Recent scrutiny of compensation practices, especially in the financial-services industry, has made this only more difficult. In addition, some parts of the Company's business are particularly dependent on key personnel,. 15. including investment management, asset servicing, and commercial lending. If the Company were to lose and find itself unable to replace these personnel or other skilled employees or if the competition for talent drove its compensation costs to unsustainable levels, the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition could be negatively impacted.. The Company is subject to a variety of litigation and other proceedings, which could adversely affect its business or performance. The Company is involved from time to time in a variety of judicial, alternative-dispute, and other proceedings arising out of its business or operations. The Company establishes reserves for claims when appropriate under generally accepted accounting principles, but costs often can be incurred in connection with a matter before any reserve has been created. The Company also maintains insurance policies to mitigate the cost of litigation and other proceedings, but these policies have deductibles, limits, and exclusions that may diminish their value or efficacy. Despite the Company's efforts to appropriately reserve for claims and insure its business and operations, the actual costs associated with resolving a claim may be substantially higher than amounts reserved or covered. Substantial legal claims, even if not meritorious, could have a detrimental impact on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition and could cause reputational harm.. Changes in accounting standards could impact the Company's financial statements and reported earnings. Accounting standard-setting bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that affect the preparation of the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. These changes are beyond the Company's control and could have a meaningful impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.. The Company's selection of accounting methods, assumptions, and estimates could impact its financial statements and reported earnings. To comply with generally accepted accounting principles, management must sometimes exercise judgment in selecting, determining, and applying accounting methods, assumptions, and estimates. This can arise, for example, in the determination of the allowance for loan losses, the calculation of deferred tax assets, the evaluation of goodwill for potential impairments, or the determination of the fair value of assets or liabilities. Furthermore, accounting methods, assumptions and estimates are part of acquisition purchase accounting and the calculation of the fair value of assets and liabilities that have been purchased, including credit-impaired loans.  The judgments required of management can involve difficult, subjective, or complex matters with a high degree of uncertainty, and several different judgments could be reasonable under the circumstances and yet result in significantly different results being reported. See \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" in Part II, Item 7 of this report beginning on page 44. If management's judgments are later determined to have been inaccurate, the Company may experience unexpected losses that could be substantial.. The Company's ability to successfully make opportunistic mergers and acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the risk that government authorities will not provide the requisite approvals, the risk that integrating acquisitions may be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and the risk that the value of acquisitions may be less than anticipated. The Company may make opportunistic acquisitions of other financial-services companies or businesses from time to time. These acquisitions may be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain that approval in a timely manner or at all. Even when the Company is able to obtain regulatory approval, the failure of other closing conditions to be satisfied or waived could delay the completion of an acquisition for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring altogether.  Any failure or delay in closing an acquisition could adversely affect the Company's reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects.. Additionally, acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including lower-than-expected performance or higher-than-expected costs, difficulties related to integration, diversion of management's attention from other business activities, changes in relationships with customers or counterparties, and the potential loss of key employees. An acquisition also could be dilutive to the Company's current stockholders if preferred stock, common stock, or securities convertible into preferred stock or common stock were issued to fully or partially pay or fund the purchase price. The Company, moreover, may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates, integrating acquired companies or businesses, or realizing the expected value from acquisitions. There is significant competition for valuable acquisition targets, and the Company may not be able to acquire other companies or businesses on attractive terms or at all.  There can be no assurance that the Company will pursue future acquisitions, and the Company's ability to grow and successfully compete in its markets and regions may be impaired if it chooses not to pursue or is unable to successfully complete acquisitions.. 16"
