[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS.. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below.  These factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and capital position, and the value of, and return on, an investment in the Company.  These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. An investment in the Company involves risk, including the possibility that the value of the investment could fall substantially and that dividends on the investment could be reduced or eliminated.. Difficult or volatile market conditions or weak economic conditions may adversely affect our business.. Our business and financial performance are vulnerable to weak economic conditions, primarily in the United States and especially in the western United States.  A deterioration in economic conditions in our primary market areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business: increased loan delinquencies; problem assets and foreclosures; significant write-downs of asset values; volatile financial markets; lower demand for our products and services; reduced low cost or noninterest bearing deposits; intangible asset impairment; and collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans.  Additional issues surrounding weakening economic conditions and volatile markets that could adversely impact us include:. • Increased regulation of our industry, and resulting increased costs associated with regulatory compliance and potential limits on our ability to pursue business opportunities.. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future performance.. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our loan portfolio requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which process may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and may, in turn, impact its reliability.. • Downward pressure on our stock price.. 16. Table of Contents. The majority of our assets are loans, which if not repaid would result in losses to the Bank.. The Bank, like other lenders, is subject to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal or interest due to borrowers' failure to repay loans in accordance with their terms. Underwriting and documentation controls cannot mitigate all credit risk. A downturn in the economy or the real estate market in our market areas or a rapid increase in interest rates could have a negative effect on collateral values and borrowers' ability to repay. To the extent loans are not paid timely by borrowers, the loans are placed on non-accrual status, thereby reducing interest income. Further, under these circumstances, an additional provision for loan and lease losses or unfunded commitments may be required.. Deterioration in the real estate market or other segments of our loan portfolio would lead to additional losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 75% of our total loan portfolio is secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate. Our success depends in part on economic conditions in the western United States and adverse changes in markets where our real estate collateral is located could adversely affect our business. Increases in delinquency rates or declines in real estate market values would require increased net charge-offs and increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects.. A rapid change in interest rates, or maintenance of rates at historically high or low levels for an extended period, could make it difficult to improve or maintain our current interest income spread and could result in reduced earnings.. Our earnings are largely derived from net interest income, which is interest income and fees earned on loans and investments, less interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the control of our management, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. The actions of the Federal Reserve influence the rates of interest that we charge on loans and that we pay on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits. We cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary, tax and other policies or the effects that they may have on our activities and financial results.. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. With fixed rate assets (such as fixed rate loans and most investment securities) and liabilities (such as certificates of deposit), the effect on net interest income depends on the cash flows associated with the maturity of the asset or liability. Asset/liability management policies may not be successfully implemented and from time to time our risk position is not balanced. An unanticipated rapid decrease or increase in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore on the level of net interest income. For instance, any rapid increase in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of fixed rate loans and longer-term investments. Historically low rates for an extended period of time result in reduced returns from the investment and loan portfolios.  The current low interest rate environment could affect consumer and business behavior in ways that are adverse to us and negatively impact our ability to increase our net interest income. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth than previously experienced.. While interest rates recently rose off historic lows set in July 2016, both shorter-term and longer-term interest rates remain below historical averages, as well as the yield curve, which has been relatively flat compared to recent years. A flat yield curve combined with low interest rates generally leads to lower revenue and reduced margins because it tends to limit our ability to increase the spread between asset yields and funding costs. Sustained periods of time with a flat yield curve coupled with low interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and our net interest margin. Although the Federal Reserve's recent decision to raise short-term interest rates may reduce prepayment risk, debt service requirements for some of our borrowers will increase, which may adversely affect those borrowers' ability to pay as contractually obligated. This could result in additional delinquencies or charge-offs and negatively impact our results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. Changes in interest rates could reduce the value of mortgage servicing rights (MSR).. We acquire MSR when we keep servicing rights after we sell originated residential mortgage loans. We sell the majority of our originated residential mortgage loans with servicing retained. We measure MSR at fair value. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and consequently MSR fair value. When interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, MSR fair value can decrease, which reduces earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs.. A low interest rate environment increases our exposure to prepayment risk in our mortgage portfolio and the mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio. Increased prepayments, refinancing or other factors that impact loan balances could reduce expected revenue associated with mortgage assets and could also lead to a reduction in the value of our mortgage servicing rights, which could have a negative impact on our financial results.. Our mortgage banking revenue can fluctuate significantly.. We earn revenue from fees received for originating, selling and servicing mortgage loans. Generally, if interest rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from originations and sales of mortgage loans. At the same time, mortgage banking revenue can increase through increases in fair value. When interest rates decline, originations tend to increase and the value of MSR tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. The negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential MSR is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSR relating to new loans accrues over time. It is also possible that even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the MSR value caused by the lower rates.. We depend upon programs administered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae.. Our ability to generate revenues in our home lending group depends on programs administered by government-sponsored entities that play an important role in the residential mortgage industry. During 2017, 76% of mortgage loans were originated for sale to, or through programs sponsored by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. We service loans on behalf of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as loans that have been securitized pursuant to securitization programs sponsored by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae.  A majority of our mortgage servicing rights and loans serviced through subservicing agreements relate to these servicing activities. These entities establish the base service fee to compensate us for servicing loans as well as the assessment of fines and penalties that may be imposed upon us for failing to meet servicing standards.  Our status as a Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae approved seller and servicer is subject to compliance with guidelines and failure to meet such guidelines could result in the unilateral termination of our status as an approved seller or servicer.  Changes in the existing government-sponsored mortgage programs or servicing eligibility standards through legislation or otherwise, or our failure to maintain a relationship with each of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows through negative impact on the pricing of mortgage related assets in the secondary market, higher mortgage rates to borrowers, or lower mortgage origination volumes and margins.. The financial services industry is highly competitive.. We face pricing competition for loans and deposits. We also face competition with respect to customer convenience, product lines, accessibility of service and service capabilities. Our most direct competition comes from other banks, brokerages, mortgage companies and savings institutions, but more recently has also come from financial technology (or \"fintech\") companies that rely on technology to provide financial services. We also face competition from credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. The significant competition in attracting and retaining deposits and making loans, as well as providing other financial services throughout our market area may impact future earnings and growth. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices, which can reduce net interest income and non-interest income from fee-based products and services.. 18. Table of Contents. The failure to understand and adapt to continual technological changes could negatively impact our business.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services by depository institutions and fintech companies. New technology-driven products and services are often introduced and adopted, including innovative ways that customers can make payments, access products and manage accounts.  We could be required to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. We could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases if we do not effectively develop and implement new technology. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations.  In addition, advances in technology such as digital, mobile, telephone, text, and on-line banking; e-commerce; and self-service automatic teller machines and other equipment, as well as changing customer preferences to access our products and services through digital channels, could decrease the value of our store network and other assets. We may close or sell certain stores and restructure or reduce our remaining stores and work force. These actions could lead to losses on assets, expense to reconfigure stores and loss of customers in certain markets. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision; compliance with new and existing legislation, regulation and supervisory requirements and expectations could detrimentally affect the Company's business.. Umpqua Holdings Corporation and its subsidiaries, primarily Umpqua Bank, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, the primary focus of which is to protect customers, depositors, the deposit insurance fund and the safety and soundness of the banking system as a whole, and not shareholders. The quantity and scope of applicable federal and state regulations may place banks and brokerage firms at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as fintech companies, finance companies, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Banking and consumer lending laws and regulations apply to almost every aspect of our business, including lending, capital, investments, deposits, other services and products, risk management, dividends and acquisitions.. Legislation and regulation with respect to our industry has increased in recent years, and we expect that supervision and regulation will continue to expand in scope and complexity.  Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, and could subject us to additional costs, limits on the services and products we may offer or limits on the pricing of banking services and products.  In addition, establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with laws and regulation increases our costs and could limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.. If we receive less than satisfactory results on regulatory examinations, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, significant fines and penalties, requirements to increase compliance and risk management activities and related costs and restriction on acquisitions, new locations, new lines of business, or continued growth. Future changes in federal and state banking and brokerage regulations could adversely affect our operating results and ability to continue to compete effectively. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations subject us to additional restrictions, oversight and reporting obligations, which have significantly increased costs. And over the last several years, state and federal regulators have focused on enhanced risk management practices, compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering laws, data integrity and security, use of service providers, and fair lending and other consumer protection issues, which has increased our need to build additional processes and infrastructure. Government agencies charged with adopting and interpreting laws, rules and regulations, may do so in an unforeseen manner, including in ways that potentially expand the reach of the laws, rules or regulations more than initially contemplated or currently anticipated. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation, or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny could significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner.  Our success depends on our ability to maintain compliance with both existing and new laws and regulations.. 19. Table of Contents. Interest rate volatility and credit risk adjusted rate spreads may impact our financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, particularly the fair value of our junior subordinated debentures.. The widening of the credit risk adjusted rate spreads on potential new issuances of junior subordinated debentures above our contractual spreads and reductions in three-month LIBOR rates have contributed to the cumulative positive fair value adjustment in our junior subordinated debentures carried at fair value. Tightening of these credit risk adjusted rate spreads and interest rate volatility may result in recognizing negative fair value adjustments charged to earnings in the future.. We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, or it may only be available on unacceptable terms, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations and pursue our growth strategy could be materially impaired. We and the Bank are currently well capitalized under applicable regulatory guidelines. However, our business could be negatively affected if we or the Bank failed to remain well capitalized. For example, because Umpqua Bank is well capitalized and we otherwise qualify as a financial holding company, we are permitted to engage in a broader range of activities than are permitted to a bank holding company. Loss of financial holding company status could require that we cease these broader activities. The banking regulators are authorized (and sometimes required) to impose a wide range of requirements, conditions, and restrictions on banks, thrifts, and bank holding companies that fail to maintain adequate capital levels.. New rules will require increased capital.. In June 2013, federal banking regulators jointly issued the Basel III rules. The rules imposed new capital requirements and implement Section 171 of the Dodd Frank Act.  The new rules were to be phased in through 2019, however, on November 21, 2017, the federal banking regulators finalized a halt in the phase-in of certain provisions of the rule for certain banks including Umpqua.  Among other things, the Basel III rules require that we maintain a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, a total capital ratio of 8%, and a leverage ratio of 4%.  In addition, we must maintain an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of total risk weighted assets or be subject to limitations on dividends and other capital distributions, as well as limiting discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. It is possible the Company may accelerate redemption of the existing junior subordinated debentures to support regulatory total capital levels.  This could result in adjustments to the fair value of these instruments including the acceleration of losses on junior subordinated debentures carried at fair value within non-interest income. The new rules may require us to raise more common capital or other capital that qualifies as Tier 1 capital. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs.. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. An adverse regulatory action against us could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are nonspecific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as evidenced by turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets.. 20. Table of Contents. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to support our future growth or an unexpected reduction in deposits.. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. If we grow more rapidly than any increase in our deposit balances, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include brokered deposits, Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of loans and liquidity resources at the holding company. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs, and our profitability would be adversely affected.. As a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through the Bank, our ability to pay dividends, repurchase our shares or to repay our indebtedness depends upon liquid assets held by the holding company and the results of operations of our subsidiaries.. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries and it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid from the Bank. There are legal limitations on the extent to which the Bank may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to, or engage in transactions with, us. Our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our net income depends primarily upon the Bank's net interest income, which is the income that remains after deducting from total income generated by earning assets the expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets (primarily interest paid on deposits). The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of changes in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. All of those factors affect the Bank's ability to pay dividends to the Company.. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to us without regulatory approval. The Bank may not pay cash dividends if that payment could reduce the amount of its capital below that necessary to meet the \"adequately capitalized\" level in accordance with regulatory capital requirements. It is also possible that, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, regulatory authorities could conclude that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to us, is an unsafe or unsound practice and impose restrictions or prohibit such payments.. Under Oregon law, the Bank may not pay dividends in excess of unreserved retained earnings, deducting there from, to the extent not already charged against earnings or reflected in a reserve, the following: (1) all bad debts, which are debts on which interest is past due and unpaid for at least six months, unless the debt is fully secured and in the process of collection; (2) all other assets charged-off as required by Oregon bank regulators or a state or federal examiner; and (3) all accrued expenses, interest and taxes of the institution. The Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, which expresses the Federal Reserve's view that a bank holding company should pay cash dividends only to the extent that its net income for the past year is sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the holding company's capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.. Our business is highly reliant on technology and our ability to manage the operational risks associated with technology.. Our business involves storing and processing sensitive consumer and business customer data.  We depend on internal systems and outsourced technology to support these data storage and processing operations. Despite our efforts to ensure the security and integrity of our systems, we may not be able to anticipate, detect or recognize threats to our systems or to implement effective preventive measures against all cyber security breaches. Cyberattack techniques change regularly and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties who are or may be involved in organized crime or linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments, and such third parties may seek to gain access to systems directly or using equipment or security passwords belonging to employees, customers, third-party service providers or other users of our systems. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our mobile and other internet-based product offerings and expands our internal usage of web-based products and applications. A cyber security breach or cyberattack could persist for a long time before being detected and could result in theft of sensitive data or disruption of our transaction processing systems.. 21. Table of Contents. Our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of our business operations. A material breach of customer data security may negatively impact our business reputation and cause a loss of customers, result in increased expense to contain the event and/or require that we provide credit monitoring services for affected customers, result in regulatory fines and sanctions and/or result in litigation. Cyber security risk management programs are expensive to maintain and will not protect the Company from all risks associated with maintaining the security of customer data and the Company's proprietary data from external and internal intrusions, disaster recovery and failures in the controls used by our vendors.  In addition, Congress and the legislatures of states in which we operate regularly consider legislation that would impose more stringent data privacy requirements, resulting in increased compliance costs.. Our business is highly reliant on third party vendors and our ability to manage the operational risks associated with outsourcing those services.. We rely on third parties to provide services that are integral to our operations.  These vendors provide services that support our operations, including the storage and processing of sensitive consumer and business customer data, as well as our sales efforts.  A cyber security breach of a vendor's system may result in theft of our data or disruption of business processes.  A material breach of customer data security at a service provider's site may negatively impact our business reputation and cause a loss of customers; result in increased expense to contain the event and/or require that we provide credit monitoring services for affected customers, result in regulatory fines and sanctions and/or result in litigation.  In most cases, we will remain primarily liable to our customers for losses arising from a breach of a vendor's data security system.  We rely on our outsourced service providers to implement and maintain prudent cyber security controls.  We have procedures in place to assess a vendor's cyber security controls prior to establishing a contractual relationship and to periodically review assessments of those control systems; however, these procedures are not infallible and a vendor's system can be breached despite the procedures we employ.  We have alliances with other companies that assist in our sales efforts. We cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain these relationships on favorable terms.  In addition, some of our data processing services are provided by companies associated with our competitors.  The loss of these vendor relationships could disrupt the services we provide to our customers and cause us to incur significant expense in connection with replacing these services.. Damage to our brand and reputation could significantly harm our business and prospects.. Our brand and reputation are important assets. Our relationship with many of our customers is predicated upon our reputation as a high-quality provider of financial services that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance.  We believe that our brand has been, and continues to be, well received in our industry, with current and potential customers, investors and employees.  Our ability to attract and retain customers, investors and employees depends upon external perceptions of us. Damage to our reputation among existing and potential customers, investors and employees could cause significant harm to our business and prospects and may arise from numerous sources, including litigation or regulatory actions, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, lending practices, inadequate protection of customer information, sales and marketing efforts, compliance failures, unethical behavior and the misconduct of employees. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us.. A decline in the Company's stock price or expected future cash flows, or a material adverse change in our results of operations or prospects, could result in impairment of our goodwill.. From time to time, the Company's common stock has traded at a price below its book value, including goodwill and other intangible assets.  A significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in impairment of our goodwill.  We have a significant goodwill asset on our balance sheet. If impairment was deemed to exist, a write down of goodwill would occur with a charge to earnings.. 22. Table of Contents. Involvement in non-bank business creates risks associated with the securities industry.. Umpqua Investments' retail brokerage operations present special risks not borne by financial institutions that focus exclusively on traditional community banking. For example, the brokerage industry is subject to fluctuations in the stock market that may have a significant adverse impact on transaction fees, customer activity and investment portfolio gains and losses. Likewise, additional or modified regulations may adversely affect Umpqua Investments' operations. Umpqua Investments is also dependent on a small number of established brokers, whose departure could result in the loss of a significant number of customer accounts. A significant decline in fees and commissions or trading losses suffered in the investment portfolio could adversely affect Umpqua Investments' income and potentially require the contribution of additional capital to support its operations. Umpqua Investments is subject to claim arbitration risk arising from customers who claim their investments were not suitable or that their portfolios were too actively traded. These risks increase when the market declines. The risks associated with retail brokerage may not be supported by the income generated by those operations. See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-\"Non-interest Income\".. The value of the securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in securities markets.. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become volatile over the past three years. Volatile market conditions or deteriorating financial performance of the issuer or obligor may detrimentally affect the value of these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary or permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels."
