[1] "ITEM 1A. - RISK FACTORS. An investment in the Company's securities involves risks. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, including the information addressed under \"Forward-Looking Statements,\" investors in the Company's securities should carefully consider the factors discussed below. These factors could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and capital position and could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from its historical results or the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report, in which case the trading price of the Company's securities could decline.. Risks Related to the Company's Operations. The Company's business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.. The community banking industry is directly affected by national, regional, and local economic conditions. The economies in the Company's market areas continued to improve during 2017, though there is no assurance that economic improvements will continue in the future. Management allocates significant resources to mitigate and respond to risks associated with changing economic conditions, however, such conditions cannot be predicted or controlled.  Adverse changes in economic conditions, including a reduction in federal government spending, a flatter yield curve, extended low interest rates, or negative changes in consumer and business spending, borrowing, and savings habits, could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company's loans, and/or the Company's results of operations and financial condition. The Company's financial performance is dependent on the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in particular, the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services the Company offers. In addition, the Company holds securities which can be significantly affected by various factors, including interest rates and credit ratings assigned by third parties.  Rising interest rates or an adverse credit rating on securities held by the Company could result in a reduction of the fair value of its securities portfolio and have an adverse impact on the Company's financial condition.. Adverse changes in economic conditions in Virginia, Maryland, or North Carolina or adverse conditions in an industry on which a local market in which the Company does business could hurt the Company's business in a material way.. The Company provides full service banking and other financial services throughout Virginia and in portions of Maryland and North Carolina. The Company's loan and deposit activities are directly affected by, and the Company's financial success depends on, economic conditions within the local markets in which the Company does business, as well as conditions in the industries on which those markets are economically dependent. A deterioration in local economic conditions or in the condition of an industry on which a local market depends could adversely affect such factors as unemployment rates, business formations and expansions, housing demand, apartment vacancy rates and real estate values in the local market, and this could result in, among other things, a decline in loan demand, a reduction in the number of creditworthy borrowers seeking loans, an increase in loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, an increase in classified and nonaccrual loans, a decrease in the value of loan collateral and a decline in the net worth and liquidity of borrowers and guarantors. Any of these factors could hurt the Company's business in a material way.. The Company's operations may be adversely affected by cyber security risks.. In the ordinary course of business, the Company collects and stores sensitive data, including proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of its customers and employees in systems and on networks. The secure processing, maintenance, and use of this information is critical to the Company's operations and business strategy. In addition, the Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems.  The Company has invested in accepted technologies, and continually reviews processes and practices that are designed to protect its networks, computers, and data from damage or unauthorized access. Despite these security measures, the Company's computer systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. A breach of any kind could compromise systems and the information stored there could be accessed, damaged, or disclosed. A breach in security or other failure could result in legal claims, regulatory penalties, disruption in operations, increased expenses, loss of customers and business partners, and damage to the Company's reputation, which could adversely affect its business and financial condition. Furthermore, as cyber threats continue to evolve and increase, the Company may be required to expend significant additional financial and operational resources to modify or enhance its protective measures, or to investigate and remediate any identified information security vulnerabilities.. 12. Integrating Xenith into the Company's operations may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected, and, if the Company does not successfully combine Xenith's business into its business, the Company's results of operations would be adversely affected.. The Company's future success will depend, in part, on its ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining the businesses of the Company and Xenith and to combine those businesses in a manner that permits growth opportunities and cost savings to be realized without materially disrupting the legacy customer relationships of Xenith or the Company or decreasing revenues due to loss of customers. However, to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, the Company must successfully combine the businesses of the Company and Xenith. If the Company is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger of the Company and Xenith may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. The success of the merger and the future operating performance of the Company and the Bank will depend, in part, on the Company's ability to successfully combine the businesses of the Company and Xenith, including the merger of Xenith Bank into the Bank, which occurred on January 1, 2018. The success of the subsidiary bank merger will, in turn, depend on a number of factors, including the Company's ability to: (i) integrate the operations and branches of Xenith Bank and the Bank; (ii) retain the deposits and customers of Xenith Bank and the Bank; (iii) control the incremental increase in noninterest expense arising from the merger in a manner that enables the combined bank to improve its overall operating efficiencies; and (iv) retain and integrate the appropriate personnel of Xenith Bank into the operations of the Bank, as well as reducing overlapping bank personnel. The integration of Xenith Bank and the Bank has required, and will continue to require, the dedication of the time and resources of the Bank's management and may temporarily distract management's attention from the day-to-day business of the Bank. If the Bank is unable to successfully integrate Xenith Bank, the Bank may not be able to realize expected operating efficiencies and eliminate redundant costs.. The integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of the Company's and the Bank's ongoing business, and inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that affect adversely the Company's ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. The loss of key employees could adversely affect the Company's ability to successfully conduct its business in the markets in which Xenith historically operated, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results and the value of its common stock. As with any merger of financial institutions, there also may be disruptions that cause the Bank to lose customers or cause customers to withdraw their deposits from the Bank, or other unintended consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or financial condition. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on the Company for an undetermined period as it continues to integrate Xenith's legacy business into the Company's business.. The inability of the Company to successfully manage its growth or implement its growth strategy may adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial conditions.. The Company may not be able to successfully implement its growth strategy if it is unable to identify and compete for attractive markets, locations, or opportunities to expand in the future. In addition, the ability to manage growth successfully depends on whether the Company can maintain adequate capital levels, maintain cost controls, effectively manage asset quality, and successfully integrate any businesses acquired into the organization.. As consolidation within the financial services industry continues, the competition for suitable strategic acquisition candidates may increase. The Company will compete with other financial services companies for acquisition and expansion opportunities, and many of those competitors will have greater financial resources than the Company does and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than the Company is able or willing to pay. The Company cannot assure that it will have opportunities to acquire other financial institutions or acquire or establish any new branches on attractive terms or at all, or that the Company will be able to negotiate, finance, and complete any opportunities available to it.. If the Company is unable to effectively implement its strategies for organic growth and strategic acquisitions, its business, results of operations, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. Difficulties in combining the operations of acquired entities with the Company's own operations may prevent the Company from achieving the expected benefits from acquisitions.. The Company may not be able to achieve fully the strategic objectives and operating efficiencies expected in an acquisition. Inherent uncertainties exist in integrating the operations of an acquired entity. In addition, the markets and industries in which the Company and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. The Company may lose its customers and/or key personnel or those of acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. The Company may also not be able to control the incremental increase in noninterest expense arising from an acquisition in a manner that improves its overall operating efficiencies. These factors could contribute to the Company not achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions within desired time frames, if at all. Future business acquisitions could be material to the Company and it may issue additional shares. 13. of common stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders' ownership interests. Acquisitions also could require the Company to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt; the Company could therefore become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Further, acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and, therefore, some dilution of the Company's tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future acquisitions.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company's income and cash flows.. The Company's income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Company's control, including general economic conditions and the policies of the Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory agencies. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment of loans, the fair value of existing assets and liabilities, the purchase of investments, the retention and generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if the Company does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. In addition, the Company's ability to reflect such interest rate changes in pricing its products is influenced by competitive pressures. Fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect the Company and its shareholders.. The Company generally seeks to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period so that it may reasonably maintain its net interest margin; however, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production, deposit flows, and competitive pressures are constantly changing and influence the ability to maintain a neutral position. Generally, the Company's earnings will be more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates depending upon the variance in volume of assets and liabilities that mature and re-price in any period. The extent and duration of the sensitivity will depend on the cumulative variance over time, the velocity and direction of changes in interest rates, shape and slope of the yield curve, and whether the Company is more asset sensitive or liability sensitive. Accordingly, the Company may not be successful in maintaining a neutral position and, as a result, the Company's net interest margin may be affected.. The Company's ALL may prove to be insufficient to absorb incurred losses in its loan portfolio.. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans that its borrowers may not repay in their entirety. The Company believes that it maintains an allowance for loan losses at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date and in compliance with applicable accounting and regulatory guidance. However, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the Company's operating results. Accounting measurements related to impairment and the loan loss allowance requires significant estimates that are subject to uncertainty and changes relating to new information and changing circumstances. The significant uncertainties surrounding the ability of the Company's borrowers to execute their business models successfully through changing economic environments, competitive challenges, and other factors complicate the Company's estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, the actual losses may vary from current estimates. The Company expects possible fluctuations in the loan loss provisions due to the uncertain economic conditions.. The Company's banking regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase its allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease the allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such required additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, the measure of the Company's ALL is dependent on the adoption and interpretation of accounting standards. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, \"Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,\" Under this ASU, the current incurred loss credit impairment methodology will be replaced with the CECL model, a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.  Accordingly, the implementation of the CECL model will change the Company's current method of providing ALL and may result in material changes in the Company's accounting for credit losses on financial instruments.  The CECL model may create more volatility in the Company's level of ALL. If the Company is required to materially increase its level of ALL for any reason, such increase could adversely affect its business, financial condition, and results of operations. The amendment is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company is currently assessing the requirements and necessary changes to the existing credit loss estimation methods and identifying a complete set of data requirements and sources as well as currently evaluating the impact the ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.. 14. The Bank's concentration in loans secured by real estate may adversely affect earnings due to changes in the real estate markets.. The Bank offers a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer, and other loans. Many of the Bank's loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial). A major change in the real estate markets, resulting in deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect borrowers' ability to pay these loans, which in turn could negatively affect the Bank. Risks of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry; the Bank tries to limit its exposure to these risks by monitoring extensions of credit carefully. The Bank cannot fully eliminate credit risk; thus, credit losses will occur in the future. Additionally, changes in the real estate market also affect the value of foreclosed assets, and therefore, additional losses may occur when management determines it is appropriate to sell the assets.. The Bank has significant credit exposure in commercial real estate, and loans with this type of collateral are viewed as having more risk of default.. The Bank's commercial real estate portfolio consists primarily of non-owner-operated properties and other commercial properties. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans. They are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and depend on cash flows from the owner's business or the property to service the debt. Cash flows may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, and a downturn in the local economy or in occupancy rates in the local economy where the property is located could increase the likelihood of default. Because the Bank's loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in the percentage of non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank's banking regulators generally give commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement enhanced risk management practices, including underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies, and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures, which could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's results of operations.. The Bank's loan portfolio contains construction and development loans, and a decline in real estate values and economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the collateral securing the loans and have an adverse effect on the Bank's financial condition.. Construction and development loans are generally viewed as having more risk than residential real estate loans because repayment is often dependent on completion of the project and the subsequent financing of the completed project as a commercial real estate or residential real estate loan and, in some instances, on the rent or sale of the underlying project.. Although the Bank's construction and development loans are primarily secured by real estate, the Bank believes that, in the case of the majority of these loans, the real estate collateral by itself may not be a sufficient source for repayment of the loan if real estate values decline. If the Bank is required to liquidate the collateral securing a construction and development loan to satisfy the debt, its earnings and capital may be adversely affected. A period of reduced real estate values may continue for some time, resulting in potential adverse effects on the Bank's earnings and capital.. The Bank relies upon independent appraisals to determine the value of the real estate which secures a significant portion of its loans, and the values indicated by such appraisals may not be realizable if the Bank is forced to foreclose upon such loans.. A significant portion of the Bank's loan portfolio consists of loans secured by real estate. The Bank relies upon independent appraisers to estimate the value of such real estate. Appraisals are only estimates of value and the independent appraisers may make mistakes of fact or judgment that adversely affect the reliability of their appraisals. In addition, events occurring after the initial appraisal may cause the value of the real estate to increase or decrease. As a result of any of these factors, the real estate securing some of the Bank's loans may be more or less valuable than anticipated at the time the loans were made. If a default occurs on a loan secured by real estate that is less valuable than originally estimated, the Bank may not be able to recover the outstanding balance of the loan.. 15. The Company's credit standards and its on-going credit assessment processes might not protect it from significant credit losses.. The Company assumes credit risk by virtue of making loans and extending loan commitments and letters of credit. The Company manages credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the heightened review of certain credit decisions, and a continuous quality assessment process of credit already extended. The Company's exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize local lending while avoiding highly leveraged transactions as well as excessive industry and other concentrations. The Company's credit administration function employs risk management techniques to help ensure that problem loans are promptly identified. While these procedures are designed to provide the Company with the information needed to implement policy adjustments where necessary and to take appropriate corrective actions, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue credit risk.. The Company's focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase its credit risk.. Most of the Company's commercial business and commercial real estate loans are made to small business or middle market customers. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. If general economic conditions in the market areas in which the Company operates negatively impact this important customer sector, the Company's results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by the Company in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. Any deterioration of the borrowers' businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's nonperforming assets adversely affect its net income in various ways. The Company does not record interest income on nonaccrual loans, which adversely affects its income and increases loan administration costs. When the Company receives collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, it is required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral less estimated selling costs, which may result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets also increases the Company's risk profile and may affect the minimum capital levels regulators believe are appropriate for the Company in light of such risks. The Company utilizes various techniques such as workouts, restructurings, and loan sales to manage problem assets. Increases in or negative adjustments in the value of these problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers' performance or financial condition, could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities, including origination of new loans. There can be no assurance that the Company will avoid further increases in nonperforming assets in the future.. The Company faces substantial competition that could adversely affect the Company's growth and/or operating results.. The Company operates in a competitive market for financial services and faces intense competition from other financial institutions both in making loans and attracting deposits which can greatly affect pricing for its products and services. The Company's primary competitors include community, regional, and national banks as well as credit unions and mortgage companies. Many of these financial institutions are significantly larger and have established customer bases, have greater financial resources, and higher lending limits. In addition, credit unions are exempt from corporate income taxes, providing a significant competitive pricing advantage compared to banks. Accordingly, some of the Company's competitors in its market have the ability to offer products and services that it is unable to offer or to offer such products and services at more competitive rates.. The Company's consumers may increasingly decide not to use the Bank to complete their financial transactions, which would have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and operations.. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds, or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as \"disintermediation,\" could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. 16. The Company's mortgage revenue is cyclical and is sensitive to the level of interest rates, changes in economic conditions, decreased economic activity, and slowdowns in the housing market, any of which could adversely impact the Company's profits.. The success of the Company's mortgage business is dependent upon its ability to originate loans and sell them to investors, in each case at or near current volumes. Loan production levels are sensitive to changes in the level of interest rates and changes in economic conditions. Loan production levels may suffer if the Company experiences a slowdown in the local housing market or tightening credit conditions. Any sustained period of decreased activity caused by fewer refinancing transactions, higher interest rates, housing price pressure, or loan underwriting restrictions would adversely affect the Company's mortgage originations and, consequently, could significantly reduce its income from mortgage activities. As a result, these conditions would also adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. Deteriorating economic conditions may also cause home buyers to default on their mortgages. In certain cases where the Company has originated loans and sold them to investors, the Company may be required to repurchase loans or provide a financial settlement to investors if it is proven that the borrower failed to provide full and accurate information on, or related to, their loan application, if appraisals for such properties have not been acceptable or if the loan was not underwritten in accordance with the loan program specified by the loan investor. In the ordinary course of business, the Company records an indemnification reserve relating to mortgage loans previously sold based on historical statistics and loss rates.  If such reserves were insufficient to cover claims from investors, such repurchases or settlements would adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets may be adversely affected.. When the Company completes an acquisition, often times goodwill and other intangible assets are recorded on the date of acquisition as an asset. Current accounting guidance requires goodwill to be tested for impairment, and the Company performs such impairment analysis at least annually. A significant adverse change in expected future cash flows or sustained adverse change in the Company's common stock could require the asset to become impaired. If impaired, the Company would incur a charge to earnings that would have a significant impact on the results of operations. The Company's carrying value of goodwill was approximately $298.5 million at December 31, 2017.. The Company's risk-management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss.. The Company maintains an enterprise risk management program that is designed to identify, assess, mitigate, monitor, and report the risks that it faces, and that includes stress testing as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. These risks include: interest-rate, credit, liquidity, operational, reputation, compliance, and legal. While the Company assesses and improves this program on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that its approach and framework for risk management and related controls will effectively mitigate all risk and limit losses in its business. If conditions or circumstances arise that expose flaws or gaps in the Company's risk-management program, or if the Company's controls break down, the Company's results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. The Company's exposure to operational, technological, and organizational risk may adversely affect the Company.. Similar to other financial institutions, the Company is exposed to many types of operational and technological risk, including reputation, legal, and compliance risk. The Company's ability to grow and compete is dependent on its ability to build or acquire the necessary operational and technological infrastructure and to manage the cost of that infrastructure while it expands and integrates acquired businesses. Operational risk can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, faulty or disabled computer systems, fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company, and exposure to external events. The Company is dependent on its operational infrastructure to help manage these risks. From time to time, it may need to change or upgrade its technology infrastructure. The Company may experience disruption, and it may face additional exposure to these risks during the course of making such changes. As the Company acquires other financial institutions, it faces additional challenges when integrating different operational platforms. Such integration efforts may be more disruptive to the Company's business and/or more costly or time-intensive than anticipated.. The Company continually encounters technological change which could affect its ability to remain competitive.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company continues to invest in technology and connectivity to automate functions previously performed manually, to facilitate the ability of customers to engage in financial transactions, and otherwise to enhance the customer experience with respect to its products and services. The Company's continued success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy customer demands and create efficiencies in its operations. A failure to maintain or enhance a competitive position with respect to technology, whether because of a failure to anticipate customer expectations, substantially fewer resources to invest in. 17. technological improvements than larger competitors, or because the Company's technological developments fail to perform as desired or are not rolled out in a timely manner, may cause the Company to lose market share or incur additional expense.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Company to additional risk.. From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business and/or a new product or service. Furthermore, strategic planning remains important as the Company adopts innovative products, services, and processes in response to the evolving demands for financial services and the entrance of new competitors, such as out-of-market banks and financial technology firms.  Any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal controls, so the Company must responsibly innovate in a manner that is consistent with sound risk management and is aligned with the Bank's overall business strategies. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and/or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The operational functions of business counterparties over which the Company may have limited or no control may experience disruptions that could adversely impact the Company.. Multiple major U.S. retailers and a major consumer credit reporting agency have experienced data systems incursions in recent years reportedly resulting in the thefts of credit and debit card information, online account information, and other personal and financial data of hundreds of millions of individuals. Retailer incursions affect cards issued and deposit accounts maintained by many banks, including the Bank. Although neither the Company's nor the Bank's systems are breached in retailer incursions, such incursions can still cause customers to be dissatisfied with the Bank and otherwise adversely affect the Company's and the Bank's reputation.  These events can also cause the Bank to reissue a significant number of cards and take other costly steps to avoid significant theft loss to the Bank and its customers. In some cases, the Bank may be required to reimburse customers for the losses they incur. Credit reporting agency intrusions affect the Bank's customers and can require these customers and the Bank to increase account monitoring and take remedial action to prevent unauthorized account activity or access. Other possible points of intrusion or disruption not within the Company's nor the Bank's control include internet service providers, electronic mail portal providers, social media portals, distant-server (\"cloud\") service providers, electronic data security providers, telecommunications companies, and smart phone manufacturers.. The Company and the Bank rely on other companies to provide key components of their business infrastructure.. Third parties provide key components of the Company's (and the Bank's) business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, internet connections, and network access. While the Company has selected these third-party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problem caused by these third parties, such as poor performance of services, failure to provide services, disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, and failure to handle current or higher volumes could adversely affect the Company's ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise conduct its business, and may harm its reputation. Financial or operational difficulties of a third-party vendor could also hurt the Company's operations if those difficulties affect the vendor's ability to serve the Company. Replacing these third-party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to the Company's business operations.. The Company depends on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties, and its financial condition could be adversely affected if it relies on misleading information.. In deciding whether to extend credit or to enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, the Company may rely on information furnished to it by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, which the Company does not independently verify. The Company also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, the Company may assume that a customer's audited financial statements conform to GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the customer. The Company's financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent it relies on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading.. Negative perception of the Company through social media may adversely affect the Company's reputation and business.. The Company's reputation is critical to the success of its business. The Company believes that its brand image has been well received by customers, reflecting the fact that the brand image, like the Company's business, is based in part on trust and. 18. confidence. The Company's reputation and brand image could be negatively affected by rapid and widespread distribution of publicity through social media channels. The Company's reputation could also be affected by the Company's association with clients affected negatively through social media distribution, or other third parties, or by circumstances outside of the Company's control. Negative publicity, whether true or untrue, could affect the Company's ability to attract or retain customers, or cause the Company to incur additional liabilities or costs, or result in additional regulatory scrutiny.. The Company's dependency on its management team and the unexpected loss of any of those personnel could adversely affect operations.. The Company is a customer-focused and relationship-driven organization. Future growth is expected to be driven in large part by the relationships maintained with customers. While the Company has assembled an experienced management team, is building the depth of that team, and has management development plans in place, the unexpected loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and may result in lower revenues or greater expenses.. Failure to maintain effective systems of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operation and financial condition.. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial reports, to effectively prevent fraud, and to operate successfully as a public company. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, its reputation and operating results would be harmed. As part of the Company's ongoing monitoring of internal control, it may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal control that require remediation. A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. The Company has in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, specific areas of its internal controls that need improvement. In addition, the Company continually works to improve the overall operation of its internal controls. The Company cannot, however, be certain that these measures will ensure that it implements and maintains adequate controls over its financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain effective controls or to timely implement any necessary improvement of the Company's internal and disclosure controls could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error, harm the Company's reputation, or cause investors to lose confidence in the Company's reported financial information, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operation and financial condition and the trading price of the Company's securities.. Limited availability of financing or inability to raise capital could adversely impact the Company.. The amount, type, source, and cost of the Company's funding directly impacts the ability to grow assets. In addition, the Company could need to raise additional capital in the future to provide it with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet its commitments and business needs, particularly if the Company's asset quality or earnings were to deteriorate significantly, or if the Company develops an asset concentration that requires the support of additional capital. The ability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, and other sources could become more difficult, more expensive, or altogether unavailable. A number of factors, many of which are outside the Company's control, could make such financing more difficult, more expensive or unavailable including: the financial condition of the Company at any given time; rate disruptions in the capital markets; the reputation for soundness and security of the financial services industry as a whole; and competition for funding from other banks or similar financial service companies, some of which could be substantially larger or have stronger credit ratings.. The Company is a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions, which may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operation.. The Company may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation arising out of its business. The Company's insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against it, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm the Company's reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed the Company's insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operation for any period. In addition, the Company may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may the Company be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all.. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize its deferred tax assets.. The Company has NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes that relate to its deferred tax assets. The Company's management currently believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will realize its deferred tax assets, based on management's expectation that the Company will generate taxable income in future years sufficient to absorb substantially all of its NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient taxable income, it may not be able to fully realize its deferred tax assets and would be required to record a valuation allowance against these assets. A valuation allowance would be recorded as income tax expense and would adversely affect the Company's net income.. 19. Sales of the Company's common stock by certain institutional investors, merger or acquisition activity, or other capital transactions may result in an ownership change of control, thus limiting the Company's ability to realize its deferred tax assets.. The Company's ability to utilize its NOLs is subject to the rules of Section 382 of the Code, which generally restricts the use of NOLs after an \"ownership change.\" An ownership change occurs if, among other things, there is a cumulative increase of more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock ownership by the shareholders (or specified groups of shareholders) who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of a corporation's common stock or are otherwise treated as 5% shareholders under Section 382 and U.S. Department of Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder because of an increase of these shareholders over a rolling three-year period. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with NOL carryforwards. This annual limitation is generally equal to the product of the value of the corporation's stock on the date of the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service. This annual limitation may be increased for five years after an ownership change by any \"built-in gain,\" which is the amount of a hypothetical intangible calculated as the value of the corporation less the fair value of tangible assets at the time of the ownership change. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOLs.. The Company entered into voting agreements with certain former institutional shareholders of Xenith (each, a \"Xenith institutional shareholder\") in connection with entry into the merger agreement with Xenith. The voting agreements provide that the Xenith institutional shareholders may not transfer or otherwise dispose of any shares of the Company common stock that they own during the 60 days following the merger closing date. In the voting agreements, the Company agreed, among other things, at each Xenith institutional shareholder's option, to enter into a registration rights agreement with respect to such shareholder's shares of the Company's common stock within 30 days following the merger closing date. This period expired without any Xenith institutional shareholder exercising such option. After 60 days following the merger closing date, a Xenith institutional shareholder may sell its shares of the Company's common stock in the public markets without restriction under its respective voting agreement.. In January 2018 the Company completed a secondary offering of shares of its common stock through which two Xenith institutional shareholders sold 7,931,926 shares of the Company's common stock.  Beginning on March 3, 2018, each of the remaining Xenith institutional shareholders may sell shares of the Company's common stock it owns without restriction under the shareholder's voting agreement.. If any of the remaining Xenith institutional shareholders sell large amounts of the Company's common stock, especially in light of the shares of the Company's common stock previously sold by certain Xenith institutional shareholders in the January 2018 secondary offering, the risk of an ownership change could increase. Additionally, any merger or acquisition activity in which the Company may engage would require it to evaluate whether an ownership change would occur. Given the rights of the Company's institutional investors and level of merger and acquisition activity in the Company's target markets, the Company cannot ensure that its ability to use its NOLs to offset income will not become limited in the future. As a result, the Company could pay taxes earlier and in larger amounts than would be the case if its NOLs were available to reduce its income taxes without restriction. If the utilization of the Company's NOLs is restricted, it would be required to record a valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's net income.. Risks Related to the Company's Regulatory Environment. Due to the Company's increased asset size, the Company is subject to additional regulation, increased supervision and increased costs following its merger with Xenith.. Various federal banking laws and regulations, including rules adopted by the Federal Reserve pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act impose additional regulatory requirements on institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $9.3 billion in total assets. As of the merger closing date, the Company had approximately $13.0 billion in assets and, as a result, will be subject to the additional regulatory requirements, increased supervision and increased costs, including the following: (i) supervision, examination and enforcement by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with respect to consumer financial protection laws; (ii) regulatory stress testing requirements, whereby the Company will be required to conduct an annual stress test (using assumptions for baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios); (iii) a modified methodology for calculating FDIC insurance assessments and potentially higher assessment rates; (iv) enhanced supervision as a larger financial institution; and (v) under the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, will be subject to a cap on the interchange fees that may be charged in certain electronic debit and prepaid card transactions.. The imposition of these regulatory requirements and increased supervision may require commitment of additional financial resources to regulatory compliance, may increase the Company's cost of operations, and may otherwise have a significant. 20. impact on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the results of the stress testing process may lead the Company to retain additional capital or alter the mix of its capital components as compared to the Company's current capital management strategy.. Current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase the Company's costs and impact its reputation.. The Company is subject to a number of laws concerning consumer privacy and data use and security, including information safeguard rules under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. These rules require that financial institutions develop, implement, and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution's size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution's activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. The United States has experienced a heightened legislative and regulatory focus on privacy and data security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach. In addition, most states have enacted security breach legislation requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of certain types of security breaches. New regulations in these areas may increase compliance costs, which could negatively impact earnings. In addition, failure to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which the Company is subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties, or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations, overall business, and reputation.. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, could adversely affect the Company or the businesses in which the Company is engaged.. The Company is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its operations. These regulations affect the Company's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Laws and regulations change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors, the FDIC's DIF, and the banking system of the whole, rather than shareholders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies are unpredictable, but may negatively affect the Company or its ability to increase the value of its business. Such changes could include higher capital requirements, increased insurance premiums, increased compliance costs, reductions of noninterest income, limitations on services and products that can be provided, or the increased ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, and policies could result in actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against the Company, which could cause the Company to devote significant time and resources to defend itself and may lead to liability, penalties, reputational damage, or regulatory restrictions that materially adversely affect the Company and its shareholders. Future legislation, regulation, and government policy could affect the banking industry as a whole, including the Company's business and results of operations, in ways that are difficult to predict.  In addition, the Company's results of operations also could be adversely affected by changes in the way in which existing statutes and regulations are interpreted or applied by courts and government agencies.. The Company is subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements as a result of the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and the Dodd-Frank Act, which could adversely affect its return on equity and otherwise affect its business.. The Company and the Bank are each subject to capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital which each must maintain. From time to time, regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal banking agencies have established stricter capital requirements and leverage limits for banks and bank holding companies that are based on the Basel III regulatory capital reforms. These stricter capital requirements will be phased-in over a four-year period, which began on January 1, 2015, until they are fully-implemented on January 1, 2019. See \"Business  -  Supervision and Regulation  -  The Bank - Capital Requirements\" for further information about the requirements.. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if the Company were to be unable to comply with such requirements.  Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in the Company having to lengthen the term of its funding, restructure its business models, and/or increase its holdings of liquid assets.  Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy, and could limit the Company's ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. If the Company and the Bank fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and/or other regulatory requirements, the Company's financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.. 21. Regulations issued by the CFPB could adversely impact the Company's earnings.. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to financial institutions that offer covered financial products and services to consumers. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB issued a final rule effective January 10, 2014, requiring mortgage lenders to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms, or to originate \"qualified mortgages\" that meet specific requirements with respect to terms, pricing, and fees. The rule also contains additional disclosure requirements at mortgage loan origination and in monthly statements. These requirements could limit the Company's ability to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive and/or time consuming to make these loans, which could adversely impact the Company's profitability.. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings.. The authorities that promulgate accounting standards, including the FASB, SEC, and other regulatory authorities, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements. These changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of financial statements for prior periods. Such changes could also require the Company to incur additional personnel or technology costs.. Risks Related to the Company's Securities. The Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for substantially all of its revenue.. The Company is a financial holding company and a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of its operations through the Bank and other subsidiaries. As a result, the Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries, particularly the Bank, for substantially all of its revenues. There are various regulatory restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends or make other payments to the Company. Also, the Company's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay a cash dividend to the holders of its common stock and the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Further, although the Company has historically paid a cash dividend to the holders of its common stock, holders of the common stock are not entitled to receive dividends, and regulatory or economic factors may cause the Company's Board of Directors to consider, among other things, the reduction of dividends paid on the Company's common stock even if the Bank continues to pay dividends to the Company.. The Company's common stock has less liquidity than stocks for larger publicly-traded companies.. The trading volume in the Company's common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market or other stock exchanges. There is no assurance that a more active and liquid trading market for the common stock will exist in the future. Consequently, shareholders may not be able to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. In addition, the Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of the common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, could cause the price of the Company's common stock to decline, or reduce the Company's ability to raise capital through future sales of common stock.. Future issuances of the Company's common stock could adversely affect the market price of the common stock and could be dilutive.. The Company is not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, shares of common stock. Issuances of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the expectation that such issuances might occur, including in connection with acquisitions by the Company, could materially adversely affect the market price of the shares of common stock and could be dilutive to shareholders. Because the Company's decision to issue common stock in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors, it cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of possible future issuances of its common stock. Accordingly, the Company's shareholders bear the risk that future issuances of common stock will reduce the market price of the common stock and dilute their stock holdings in the Company.. 22. Common stock is equity and is subordinate to the Company's existing and future indebtedness and preferred stock and effectively subordinated to all the indebtedness and other non-common equity claims against the Bank and the Company's other subsidiaries.. Shares of the Company's common stock are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, shares of the common stock will rank junior to all of the Company's indebtedness and to other non-equity claims against the Company and its assets available to satisfy claims against it, including in the event of the Company's liquidation. Additionally, holders of the Company's common stock are subject to prior dividend and liquidation rights of holders of outstanding preferred stock, if any. The Company's Board of Directors is authorized to issue classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the holders of the Company's common stock, and the Company is permitted to incur additional debt. Upon liquidation, lenders and holders of the Company's debt securities and preferred stock would receive distributions of the Company's available assets prior to holders of the Company's common stock. Furthermore, the Company's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon any of its subsidiaries' liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including holders of any preferred stock of that subsidiary.. The Company's governing documents and Virginia law contain anti-takeover provisions that could negatively affect its shareholders.. The Company's Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and the Virginia Stock Corporation Act contain certain provisions designed to enhance the ability of the Company's Board of Directors to respond to attempts to acquire control of the Company. These provisions and the ability to set the voting rights, preferences, and other terms of any series of preferred stock that may be issued, may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may discourage takeovers (which certain shareholders may deem to be in their best interest). To the extent that such takeover attempts are discouraged, temporary fluctuations in the market price of the Company's common stock resulting from actual or rumored takeover attempts may be inhibited. These provisions also could discourage or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest, even though such transactions may be favorable to the interests of shareholders, and could potentially adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock.. Economic conditions may cause volatility in the Company's common stock value.. The value of publicly traded stocks in the financial services sector can be volatile, including due to declining or sustained weak economic conditions, which may make it more difficult for a holder to sell the Company's common stock when the holder wants and at prices that are attractive.  However, even in a stable economic environment the value of the Company's common stock can be affected by a variety of factors such as expected results of operations, actual results of operations, actions taken by shareholders, news or expectations based on the performance of others in the financial services industry, and expected impacts of a changing regulatory environment. These factors not only impact the value of the Company's common stock but could also affect the liquidity of the stock given the Company's size, geographical footprint, and industry.. 23"
