[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Factors that could affect future results include the following:. Future results may be adversely impacted if the company is unable to improve revenue and margins in its Services business.. The company's strategy places an emphasis on an industry go-to-market approach with an increased focus within the company's Services business on improving revenue trends, including specifically on higher value and higher margin offerings. The company's ability to grow revenue and profitability in this business will depend on the level of demand for projects and the portfolio of solutions the company offers for specific industries. It will also depend on an efficient utilization of services delivery personnel. Revenue and profit margins in this business are a function of both the portfolio of solutions sold in a given period and the rates the company is able to charge for services and the chargeability of its professionals. If the company is unable to attain sufficient rates and chargeability for its professionals, revenue and profit margins will be adversely affected. The rates the company is able to charge for services are affected by a number of factors, including clients' perception of the company's ability to add value through its services; introduction of new services or products by the company or its competitors; pricing policies of competitors; and general economic conditions. Chargeability is also affected by a number of factors, including the company's ability to transition resources from completed projects to new engagements and across geographies, and its ability to forecast demand for services and thereby maintain appropriate resource levels. The company's results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted if sales of higher margin offerings do not offset declines resulting from lower margin offerings.. Future results may be adversely impacted if the company is unable to maintain its installed base and sell new solutions in its Technology business.. The company continues to invest in its ClearPath Forward operating system software in order to retain existing clients in its Technology business. If clients do not believe in the value proposition provided by ClearPath Forward or choose not to renew their contracts for any other reason, there may not be a meaningful return on these investments, and revenue could decline meaningfully. The company also continues to invest in its Stealth family of software, as well as in industry-specific software and solutions for its focus industries. If the company is unsuccessful in selling these Stealth products or industry-specific solutions and related services, there may not be a meaningful return on these investments. Further, the revenues generated by Stealth and other new solutions and related services may be insufficient to offset any revenue declines caused if the company is unable to retain its installed base.. The company's future results may be adversely impacted if it is unable to effectively anticipate and respond to volatility and rapid technological innovation in its industry.. The company operates in a highly volatile industry characterized by rapid technological innovation, evolving technology standards, short product life cycles and continually changing customer demand patterns. Future success will depend in part on the company's ability to anticipate and respond to these market trends and to design, develop, introduce, deliver or obtain new and innovative services and products on a timely and cost-effective basis using new delivery models such as cloud computing. The company may not be successful in anticipating or responding to changes in technology, industry standards or customer preferences, and the market may not demand or accept its services and product offerings. In addition, services and products developed by competitors may make the company's offerings less competitive.. The company's future results will depend on its ability to retain significant clients.. The company has a number of significant long-term contracts with clients, including governmental entities, and its future success will depend, in part, on retaining its relationships with these clients. The company could lose clients for reasons such as contract expiration, conversion to a competing service provider, disputes with clients or a decision to in-source services, including contracts with governmental entities as part of the rebid process. The company could also lose clients as a result of their merger, acquisition or business failure. The company may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from any such lost client.. The company faces aggressive competition in the information services and technology marketplace, which could lead to reduced demand for the company's services and products and could have an adverse effect on the company's business.. The information services and technology markets in which the company operates include a large number of companies vying for customers and market share both domestically and internationally. The company's competitors include systems integrators, consulting and other professional services firms, outsourcing providers, infrastructure services providers, computer hardware manufacturers and software providers. Some of the company's competitors may develop competing services and products that offer better price-performance or that reach the market in advance of the company's offerings. Some competitors also have or may develop greater financial and other resources than the company, with enhanced ability to compete for market share, in some instances through significant economic incentives to secure contracts. Some also may be better able to compete for skilled professionals. Any of these factors could lead to reduced demand for the company's services and products and could have an adverse effect on the company's business. Future results will depend on the company's ability to mitigate the effects of aggressive competition on revenues, pricing and margins and on the company's ability to attract and retain talented people.. 10. Cybersecurity breaches could result in the company incurring significant costs and could harm the company's business and reputation.. The company's business includes managing, processing, storing and transmitting proprietary and confidential data, including personal information, intellectual property and proprietary business information, within the company's own IT systems and those that the company designs, develops, hosts or manages for clients. Cybersecurity breaches involving these systems by hackers, other third parties or the company's employees, despite established security controls, could disrupt these systems or result in the loss or corruption of data or the unauthorized disclosure or misuse of information of the company, its clients or others. This could result in claims, investigations, litigation and legal liability for the company, lead to the loss of existing or potential clients and adversely affect the market's perception of the security and reliability of the company's services and products. In addition, such breaches could subject the company to fines and penalties for violations of laws and result in the company incurring other significant costs. This may negatively impact the company's reputation and financial results.. The company has significant pension obligations and required cash contributions and may be required to make additional significant cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans.. The company has significant unfunded obligations under its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. In 2017, the company made cash contributions of $138.4 million to its worldwide defined benefit pension plans. Based on current legislation, global regulations, recent interest rates and expected returns, in 2018 the company estimates that it will make cash contributions to its worldwide defined benefit pension plans of approximately $149.7 million, which are comprised of approximately $86.3 million for the company's U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan and approximately $63.4 million primarily for non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. Although estimates for future cash contributions are likely to change based on a number of factors including market conditions and changes in discount rates, the company currently anticipates that its required cash contributions will increase in 2020 and for the next several years.. Deterioration in the value of the company's worldwide defined benefit pension plan assets, as well as discount rate changes or changes in economic or demographic trends, could require the company to make cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in the future in an amount larger than currently anticipated. Increased cash contribution requirements or an acceleration in the due date of such cash contributions would reduce the cash available for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate uses and may have an adverse impact on the company's operations, financial condition and liquidity.. If the company is unable to attract, motivate and retain experienced and knowledgeable personnel in key positions, its future results could be adversely impacted.. The success of the company's business is dependent upon its ability to employ and train individuals with the requisite knowledge, skills and experience to execute the company's business model and achieve its business objectives. The failure of the company to retain key personnel or implement an appropriate succession plan could adversely impact the company's ability to successfully carry out its business strategy and retain other key personnel.. A significant portion of the company's revenue is derived from operations outside of the United States, and the company is subject to the risks of doing business internationally.. A significant portion of the company's total revenue is derived from international operations. The risks of doing business internationally include foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, currency restrictions and devaluations, changes in political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, multiple and possibly overlapping and conflicting tax laws, new tax legislation, weaker intellectual property protections in some jurisdictions and additional legal and regulatory compliance requirements applicable to businesses that operate internationally, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, regulations in the European Union such as the General Data Protection Regulation, the U.K. Bribery Act and other U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations.. The company's contracts may not be as profitable as expected or provide the expected level of revenues.. In a number of the company's long-term services contracts, the company's revenue is based on the volume of services and products provided. As a result, revenue levels anticipated at the contract's inception are not guaranteed. In addition, some of these contracts may permit termination at the customer's discretion before the end of the contract's term or may permit termination or impose other penalties if the company does not meet the performance levels specified in the contracts.. The company's contracts with governmental entities are subject to the availability of appropriated funds. These contracts also contain provisions allowing the governmental entity to terminate the contract at the governmental entity's discretion before the end of the contract's term. In addition, if the company's performance is unacceptable to the customer under a government contract, the government retains the right to pursue remedies under the affected contract, which remedies could include termination.. 11. Certain of the company's services agreements require that the company's prices be benchmarked if the customer requests it and provide that those prices may be adjusted downward if the pricing for similar services in the market has changed. As a result, revenues anticipated at the beginning of the terms of these contracts may decline in the future.. Some of the company's services contracts are fixed-price contracts under which the company assumes the risk for delivery of the contracted services and products at an agreed-upon fixed price. Should the company experience problems in performing fixed-price contracts on a profitable basis, adjustments to the estimated cost to complete may be required. Future results will depend on the company's ability to perform these services contracts profitably.. If the company is unable to access the financing markets, it may adversely impact the company's business and liquidity.. Market conditions may impact the company's ability to access the financing markets on terms acceptable to the company or at all. If the company is unable to access the financing markets, the company would be required to use cash on hand to fund operations and repay outstanding debt as it comes due. There is no assurance that the company will generate sufficient cash to fund its operations and refinance such debt. A failure by the company to generate such cash would have a material adverse effect on its business if the company were unable to access financing markets. Market conditions may also impact the company's ability to utilize surety bonds, letters of credit, foreign exchange derivatives or other financial instruments the company uses to conduct its business.. The company's contracts with U.S. governmental agencies may subject the company to audits, criminal penalties, sanctions and other expenses and fines.. The company frequently enters into contracts with governmental entities. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Department of Labor, routinely audit government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The U.S. government also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, contract terms and conditions, and its systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, billing, accounting, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be overcharged or improperly allocated to a specific contract or any amounts improperly billed or charged for products or services will be subject to reimbursement to the government. In addition, government contractors, such as the company, are required to disclose credible evidence of certain violations of law and contract overcharging to the federal government. If the company is found to have participated in improper or illegal activities, the company may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. Any negative publicity related to such contracts, regardless of the accuracy of such publicity, may adversely affect the company's business or reputation.. A significant disruption in the company's IT systems could adversely affect the company's business and reputation.. We rely extensively on our IT systems to conduct our business and perform services for our clients. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses and malicious attacks, cybersecurity breaches and catastrophic events. If our systems are accessed without our authorization, damaged or fail to function properly, we could incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss and impediments to our ability to conduct our business, and damage the market's perception of our services and products. In addition, a disruption could result in the company failing to meet performance standards and obligations in its client contracts, which could subject the company to liability, penalties and contract termination. This may adversely affect the company's reputation and financial results.. The company may face damage to its reputation or legal liability if its clients are not satisfied with its services or products.. The success of the company's business is dependent on strong, long-term client relationships and on its reputation for responsiveness and quality. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with the company's services or products, its reputation could be damaged and its business adversely affected. Allegations by private litigants or regulators of improper conduct, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about the company, whatever the outcome and whether or not valid, may harm its reputation. In addition to harm to reputation, if the company fails to meet its contractual obligations, it could be subject to legal liability, which could adversely affect its business, operating results and financial condition.. Future results will depend in part on the performance and capabilities of third parties with whom the company has commercial relationships.. The company maintains business relationships with suppliers, channel partners and other parties that have complementary products, services or skills. Future results will depend, in part, on the performance and capabilities of these third parties, on the ability of external suppliers to deliver components at reasonable prices and in a timely manner, and on the financial condition of, and the company's relationship with, distributors and other indirect channel partners, which can affect the company's capacity to effectively and efficiently serve current and potential customers and end users.. 12. An involuntary termination of the company's U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan would adversely affect the company's financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, the company had approximately $1.3 billion of underfunded pension obligations under its U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the \"PBGC\") has authority under the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, to terminate an underfunded defined benefit pension plan under certain circumstances, including when (1) the plan has not met the minimum funding requirements, (2) the plan cannot pay current benefits when due, or (3) the loss to the PBGC is reasonably expected to increase unreasonably over time if the plan is not terminated. If the PBGC were to terminate the company's U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan, the company's obligations with respect to such plan would become due and payable in full. Any such event or the failure by the company to pay its pension plan insurance premiums with respect to its U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan could result in the PBGC obtaining a lien on the company's assets. Such an event would result in an event of default under the company's debt agreements and would materially and adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The company's services or products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others.. The company cannot be sure that its services and products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and it may have infringement claims asserted against it or against its clients. These claims could cost the company money, prevent it from offering some services or products, or damage its reputation.. The company could face business and financial risk in implementing future acquisitions or dispositions.. As part of the company's business strategy, it may from time to time consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses, or disposing of existing technologies, products and businesses that may no longer be in alignment with its strategic direction, including transactions of a material size. Any acquisitions may result in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness or contingent liabilities. Acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and an increase in amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Additional potential risks associated with acquisitions include integration difficulties; difficulties in maintaining or enhancing the profitability of any acquired business; risks of entering markets in which the company has no or limited prior experience; potential loss of employees or failure to maintain or renew any contracts of any acquired business; and expenses of any undiscovered or potential liabilities of the acquired product or business, including relating to employee benefits contribution obligations or environmental requirements. Potential risks with respect to dispositions include difficulty finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner; potential loss of employees or clients; dispositions at unfavorable prices or on unfavorable terms, including relating to retained liabilities; and post-closing indemnity claims. Further, with respect to both acquisitions and dispositions, management's attention could be diverted from other business concerns. Adverse credit conditions could also affect the company's ability to consummate acquisitions or dispositions. The risks associated with acquisitions and dispositions could have a material adverse effect upon the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the company will be successful in consummating future acquisitions or dispositions on favorable terms or at all.. The company's business can be adversely affected by global economic conditions, acts of war, terrorism or natural disasters.. The company's financial results have been impacted by the global economic slowdown in recent years. If economic conditions worsen, the company could see reductions in demand and increased pressure on revenue and profit margins. The company could also see a further consolidation of clients, which could also result in a decrease in demand. The company's business could also be affected by acts of war, terrorism or natural disasters. Current world tensions could escalate, and this could have unpredictable consequences on the world economy and on the company's business.. Pending litigation could affect the company's results of operations or cash flow.. There are various lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings that have been brought or asserted against the company, which arise in the ordinary course of business, including actions with respect to commercial and government contracts, labor and employment, employee benefits, environmental matters, intellectual property and non-income tax matters. See Note 14, \"Litigation and contingencies,\" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on litigation. The company believes that it has valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against it. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, however, and it is possible that the company's results of operations or cash flows could be materially affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of the legal matters pending against it.. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Management periodically reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures, or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 13. As disclosed in Item 9A. \"Controls and Procedures,\" a material weakness was identified in our internal control over financial reporting resulting from risk assessment procedures over Technology revenue that did not adequately consider changes in business  operations and the demands on personnel created by the efforts required to adopt the new revenue accounting pronouncement that will impact future financial reporting. As a result, the company had missing process level controls and insufficient trained personnel to operate process level controls over the measurement and recognition of multiple-element arrangements within Technology revenue. Based on this material weakness, management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2017. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness did not result in any misstatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements for any period presented and we are implementing remedial measures intended to address the material weakness and related disclosure controls. However, if the remedial measures we are implementing are insufficient, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting or in our disclosure controls occur in the future, our future consolidated financial statements or other information filed with the SEC may contain material misstatements. Failure to maintain effective controls or to timely implement any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could, among other things, result in losses from errors, harm our reputation, or cause investors to lose confidence in the reported financial information, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Other factors discussed in this report, although not listed here, also could materially affect our future results.. 14"
