[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. United is subject to risks inherent to the Company's business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair United's business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. RISKS RELATING TO UNITED'S BUSINESS. Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings, as our borrowers' ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline.. United's success depends, to a certain extent, upon local and national economic and political conditions, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as an economic recession, rising unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond its control may adversely affect United's and United Bank's asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, its earnings. Because United has a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Consequently, declines in the economy in our market area could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The value of certain investment securities is volatile and future declines or other-than-temporary impairments could have a materially adverse effect on future earnings and regulatory capital.. Continued volatility in the fair value for certain investment securities, whether caused by changes in market conditions, interest rates, credit risk of the issuer, the expected yield of the security, or actual defaults in the portfolio could result in significant fluctuations in the value of the securities as well as any regulatory rulemaking such as the Volcker Rule which could exclude or limit the holdings of certain investment securities. This could have a material adverse impact on United's accumulated other comprehensive income and shareholders' equity depending on the direction of the fluctuations. Furthermore, future downgrades, defaults or prepayments, including the liquidation of the underlying collateral in certain securities, could result in future classifications as other-than-temporarily impaired. This could have a material impact on United's future earnings, although the impact on shareholders' equity will be offset by any amount already included in other comprehensive income for securities that were temporarily impaired.. 17. Table of Contents. There are no assurances as to adequacy of the allowance for loan losses.. United believes that its allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level appropriate to absorb any probable losses in its loan portfolio given the current information known to management.. Management establishes the allowance based upon many factors, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095>    historical loan loss experience;. <U+0095>    industry diversification of the commercial loan portfolio;. <U+0095>    the effect of changes in the local real estate market on collateral values;. <U+0095>    the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral security;. <U+0095>    current economic conditions that may affect the borrower's ability to pay and value of collateral;. <U+0095>    volume, growth and composition of the loan portfolio; and. <U+0095>    other factors management believes are relevant.. These determinations are based upon estimates that are inherently subjective, and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events, so ultimate losses may differ from current estimates. Changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that are generally beyond United's control, can affect United's loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of United's control, may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. United can provide no assurance that its allowance is sufficient to cover actual loan losses should such losses differ substantially from our current estimates.. In addition, federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their respective supervisory functions, periodically review United's allowance for loan losses, and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Furthermore, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, United will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on United's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect United's business.. United's earnings, like most financial institutions, are significantly dependent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income United earns on loans and other assets which earn interest and the interest expense incurred to fund those assets, such as on savings deposits and borrowed money. Therefore, changes in general market interest rates, such as a change in the monetary policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or otherwise beyond those which are contemplated by United's interest rate risk model and policy, could have an effect on net interest income. For more information concerning United's interest rate risk model and policy, see the discussion under the caption \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" under Item 7A.. United is subject to credit risk.. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers and risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral. United seeks to mitigate the risk inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to prudent loan approval practices. Although United believes that its loan approval criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans the Company makes, United may incur losses on loans that meet our loan approval criteria. A significant decline in general economic. 18. Table of Contents. conditions caused by inflation or deflation, recession, unemployment, changes in government fiscal and monetary policies, acts of terrorism, or other factors beyond our control could cause our borrowers to default on their loan payments, and the collateral values securing such loans to decline and be insufficient to repay any outstanding indebtedness. In such events, we could experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. United's information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.. United relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. In addition, as part of its business, United collects, processes and retains sensitive and confidential client and customer information. United's facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While United has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company's information systems could damage United's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject United to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on United's financial condition and results of operations.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a cyber-attack, other breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business.. In the normal course of our business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on our behalf and on behalf of other third parties. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks, security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and / or human errors, or other similar events.. Information security risks for financial institutions like us have increased recently in part because of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies (including mobile devices) to conduct financial and other business transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, perpetrators of fraud, hackers, terrorists and others. In addition to cyber-attacks or other security breaches involving the theft of sensitive and confidential information, hackers have engaged in attacks against large financial institutions, particularly denial of service attacks, designed to disrupt key business services such as customer-facing web sites. We are not able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types. Although we employ detection and response mechanisms designed to contain and mitigate security incidents, early detection may be thwarted by persistent sophisticated attacks and malware designed to avoid detection.. We also face risks related to cyber-attacks and other security breaches in connection with card transactions that typically involve the transmission of sensitive information regarding our customers through various third parties. Some of these parties have in the past been the target of security breaches and cyber-attacks, and because the transactions involve third parties and environments that we do not control or secure, future security breaches or cyber-attacks affecting any of these third parties could impact us through no fault of our own, and in some cases we may have exposure and suffer losses for breaches or attacks relating to them. We also rely on numerous other third party service providers to conduct other aspects of our business operations and face similar risks relating to them. While we conduct security assessments on our higher risk third parties, we cannot be sure that their information security protocols are sufficient to withstand a cyber-attack or other security breach.. Any cyber-attack or other security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information could severely damage our reputation, erode confidence in the security of our systems, products and services, expose us to the risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.. 19. Table of Contents. United's business continuity plans or data security systems could prove to be inadequate, resulting in a material interruption in, or disruption to, its business and a negative impact on results of operations.. United relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems, whether due to severe weather, natural disasters, cyber-attack, acts of war or terrorism, criminal activity or other factors, could result in failures or disruptions in general ledger, deposit, loan, customer relationship management and other systems. While United has disaster recovery and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of United's information systems could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose it to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations.. The negative economic effects caused by terrorist attacks, including cyber-attacks, potential attacks and other destabilizing events would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of United's loan portfolio and could reduce its customer base, level of deposits, and demand for its financial products such as loans.. High inflation, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, including cyber-attacks, an escalation of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, and other factors could have a negative impact on the economy of the Mid-Atlantic regions in which United operates. An additional economic downturn in its markets would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of United's loan portfolio by impacting the ability of its customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and may reduce the level of deposits in its bank and the stability of its deposit funding sources. An additional economic downturn could also have a significant impact on the demand for United's products and services. The cumulative effect of these matters on United's results of operations and financial condition would likely be adverse and material.. Loss of United's Chief Executive Officer or other executive officers could adversely affect its business.. United's success is dependent upon the continued service and skills of its executive officers and senior management. If United loses the services of these key personnel, it could have a negative impact on United's business because of their skills, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The services of Richard M. Adams, United's Chief Executive Officer, would be particularly difficult to replace. United and Mr. Adams are parties to an Employment Agreement providing for his continued employment by United through March 31, 2021.. United operates in a highly competitive market.. United faces a high degree of competition in all of the markets it serves. United considers all of West Virginia to be included in its market area. This area includes the five largest West Virginia Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA): the Parkersburg MSA, the Charleston MSA, the Huntington MSA, the Morgantown MSA and the Wheeling MSA. United serves the Ohio counties of Lawrence, Belmont, Jefferson and Washington and Fayette county in Pennsylvania primarily because of their close proximity to the Ohio and Pennsylvania borders and United banking offices located in those counties or in nearby West Virginia. United's Virginia markets include the Maryland, northern Virginia and Washington, D.C. MSA, the Winchester MSA, the Harrisonburg MSA, and the Charlottesville MSA. United considers all of the above locations to be the primary market area for the business of its banking subsidiaries.. There is a risk that aggressive competition could result in United controlling a smaller share of these markets. A decline in market share could lead to a decline in net income which would have a negative impact on stockholder value.. 20. Table of Contents. United may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. United has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, or other institutional clients. Recent defaults by financial services institutions, and even rumors or questions about a financial institution or the financial services industry in general, have led to marketwide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by United or other institutions. Any such losses could adversely affect United's financial condition or results of operations.. United is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.. United is subject to extensive federal and state regulation, supervision and examination. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect United's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, operations and growth, among other things. These regulations also impose obligations to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls, among other things, to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identities of United's customers. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes. Other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect United in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products United may offer and/or increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. United expends substantial effort and incurs costs to improve its systems, audit capabilities, staffing and training in order to satisfy regulatory requirements, but the regulatory authorities may determine that such efforts are insufficient. Failure to comply with relevant laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on United's business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.. In the normal course of business, United and its subsidiaries are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments that the Company has made and the businesses in which United has engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in the Company's favor, they could have a material adverse effect on United's financial condition and results of operations.. The effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 on our business have not yet been fully analyzed and could have an adverse effect on our net income.. On December 22, 2017, President Donald Trump signed into law H.R.1, formerly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act makes significant changes to U.S. corporate income tax laws including a decrease in the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018. As a result of the Tax Act, United recorded additional tax expense of $37.73 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 due to a remeasurement of United's deferred tax assets and liabilities. Reasonable estimates were made based on United's analysis of the Tax Act. This provisional amount may be adjusted in future periods during 2018 when additional information is obtained. Additional information that may affect United's provisional amount would include further clarification and guidance on how the IRS will implement tax reform, further clarification and guidance on how state taxing authorities will implement tax reform and the related effect on United's state income tax returns, completion of United's 2017 tax return filings, and the potential for additional guidance from the SEC or the FASB related to the Tax Act. United cannot determine at this time the full effects of the Tax Act on its business and financial results.. 21. Table of Contents. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of the prohibitions against unfair, deceptive and abusive business practices. Compliance with any such change may impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including United Bank.. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to financial institutions that offer covered financial products and services to consumers. The CFPB has also been directed to write rules identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. The concept of what may be considered to be an \"abusive\" practice is relatively new under the law. Moreover, United Bank is supervised and examined by the CFPB for compliance with the CFPB's regulations and policies. The costs and limitations related to this additional regulatory reporting regimen have yet to be fully determined, although they may be material and the limitations and restrictions that will be placed upon United Bank with respect to its consumer product offering and services may produce significant, material effects on United Bank (and United's) profitability.. United may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when it is needed.. United is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support the Company's operations. In addition, United may elect to raise additional capital to support the Company's business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or United may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors, which may diminish United's ability to raise additional capital.. United's ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside the Company's control, and on United's financial performance. Accordingly, United cannot be assured of its ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to the Company. If United cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. United is subject to higher regulatory capital requirements and failure to comply with these standards may impact dividend payments, equity repurchases and executive compensation.. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve published final rules that substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to United and United Bank. The rules implement the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act, or the Basel III Capital Rules. The new rules were effective for United and United Bank on January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period for certain of the new rules).. The Basel III Capital Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a capital measure called \"Common Equity Tier 1\", or CET1, (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and \"Additional Tier 1 Capital\" instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions/ adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions/adjustments from capital as compared to existing regulations, and particularly as applied to CET1.. Under the Basel III Capital Rules, the initial minimum capital and leverage ratios as of January 1, 2015 are as follows:. <U+0095>    4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets.. 22. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    6.0% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets.. <U+0095>    8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.. <U+0095>    4.0% Tier 1 capital to average assets.. In addition to raising minimum capital and leverage ratios, the Basel III Capital Rules also establish a capital conservation buffer that is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. The capital conservation buffer will be phased in from January 1, 2016 to January 1, 2019 in equal annual installments, and when fully implemented the capital conservation buffer will effectively add 2.5% to each of the minimum capital ratios. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.. With respect to United's banking subsidiary, United Bank, the Basel III Capital Rules also revise the \"prompt corrective action\" regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by (i) introducing a CET1 ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required CET1 ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category, with the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio for well-capitalized status being 8% (as compared to the current 6%); and (iii) eliminating the current provision that provides that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3% leverage ratio and still be adequately capitalized. The Basel III Capital Rules do not change the total risk-based capital requirement for any \"prompt corrective action\" category.. The Basel III Capital Rules prescribe a standardized approach for risk weightings that expand the risk-weighting categories from the current four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset categories. In particular, the Basel III Capital Rules increase risk weights that apply to past-due exposures and high volatility commercial real estate loans.. The Basel III changes have resulted in generally higher minimum capital ratios that require United and its subsidiaries to maintain capital buffers above minimum requirements to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and executive bonus payments. In addition, the application of more stringent capital requirements for United could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital and result in additional regulatory actions if United were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit United's ability to make distributions, including paying dividends.. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, regulators of banks and bank holding companies have become more likely to impose capital requirements on bank holding companies and banks that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future could impair United's ability to accurately and timely report its financial results or prevent fraud, resulting in loss of investor confidence and adversely affecting United's business and stock price.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. Management believes that United's internal controls over financial reporting are currently effective. Management will continually review and analyze the Company's internal controls over financial reporting for Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance. Any failure to maintain, in the future, an effective internal control environment could impact United's ability to report its financial results on an accurate and timely basis, which could result in regulatory actions, loss of investor confidence, and adversely impact United's business and stock price.. 23. Table of Contents. United could face unanticipated environmental liabilities or costs related to real property owned or acquired through foreclosure. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those related to investigation and clean-up of contaminated sites, could have a negative effect on expenses and results of operations.. A significant portion of United's loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, United may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, United may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require United to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit United's ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase exposure to environmental liability. Although United has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on results of operations.. United's earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies.. The policies of the Federal Reserve impact United significantly. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold. Those policies determine to a significant extent our cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve could reduce the demand for a borrower's products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower's earnings and ability to repay its loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. New accounting or tax pronouncements or interpretations may be issued by the accounting profession, regulators or other government bodies which could change existing accounting methods. Changes in accounting methods could negatively impact United's results of operations and financial condition.. Current accounting and tax rules, standards, policies and interpretations influence the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Events that may not have a direct impact on United, such as the bankruptcy of major U.S. companies, have resulted in legislators, regulators and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and various taxing authorities, responding by adopting and/or proposing substantive revision to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting standards may adversely affect reported financial condition and results of operations.. United's vendors could fail to fulfill their contractual obligations, resulting in a material interruption in, or disruption to, its business and a negative impact on results of operations.. United is dependent upon third parties for certain information system, data management and processing services and to provide key components of its business infrastructure. United has entered into subcontracts for the supply of current and future services, such as data processing, mortgage loan processing and servicing, and certain property management functions. These services must be available on a continuous and timely basis and be in compliance with any regulatory requirements. Failure to do so could substantially harm United's business.. 24. Table of Contents. United often purchases services from vendors under agreements that typically can be terminated on a periodic basis. There can be no assurance, however, that vendors will be able to meet their obligations under these agreements or that United will be able to compel them to do so. Risks of relying on vendors include the following:. <U+0095>    If an existing agreement expires or a certain service is discontinued by a vendor, then United may not be able to continue to offer its customers the same breadth of products and its operating results would likely suffer unless it is able to find an alternate supply of a similar service.. <U+0095>    Agreements United may negotiate in the future may commit it to certain minimum spending obligations. It is possible United will not be able to create the market demand to meet such obligations.. <U+0095>    If market demand for United's products increases suddenly, its current vendors might not be able to fulfill United's commercial needs, which would require it to seek new arrangements or new sources of supply, and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand.. <U+0095>    United may not be able to control or adequately monitor the quality of services it receives from its vendors. Poor quality services could damage United's reputation with its customers.. In addition, these third party service providers are sources of operational and informational security risk to United, including risks associated with operational errors, information system interruptions or breaches, and unauthorized disclosures of sensitive or confidential client or customer information. If third party service providers encounter any of these issues, or if United has difficulty communicating with them, United could be exposed to disruption of operations, loss of service or connectivity to customers, reputational damage, and litigation risk that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our business.. Potential problems with vendors such as those discussed above could have a significant adverse effect on United's business, lead to higher costs and damage its reputation with its customers and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. RISKS RELATING TO UNITED'S MERGER WITH CARDINAL FINANCIAL. United may fail to realize the cost savings estimated for the merger of Cardinal.. Although United estimates that it will realize cost savings of approximately $27 million annually (excluding one-time costs and expenses associated with the merger with Cardinal) from the merger when fully phased in, it is possible that the estimates of the potential cost savings could turn out to be incorrect. For example, the combined purchasing power may not be as strong as expected, and therefore the cost savings could be reduced. In addition, future business developments may require United to continue to operate or maintain some facilities or support functions that are currently expected to be combined or reduced. The cost savings estimates also depend on United's ability to combine the businesses of United and Cardinal in a manner that permits those costs savings to be realized. If the estimates turn out to be incorrect or United is not able to combine the two companies successfully, the anticipated cost savings may not be fully realized or realized at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. 25. Table of Contents. The integration of the operations of United and Cardinal may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than anticipated.. The success of the merger of Cardinal will depend, in part, on United's ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from successfully combining the businesses of United and Cardinal and to combine the businesses of United and Cardinal in a manner that permits growth opportunities and cost savings to be realized without materially disrupting the existing customer relationships of Cardinal or decreasing revenues due to loss of customers. If United is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company's ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. The loss of key employees could adversely affect United's ability to successfully conduct its business in the markets in which Cardinal now operates, which could have an adverse effect on United's financial results and the value of its common stock. If United experiences difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. As with any merger of financial institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause Cardinal to lose customers or cause customers to remove their accounts from Cardinal and move their business to competing financial institutions. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of Cardinal and United during this transition period and for an undetermined period after consummation of the merger.. The success of the merger will also depend on United's ability to:. <U+0095>    Retain and attract qualified personnel to, United and Cardinal;. <U+0095>    Maintain existing relationships with depositors of Cardinal to minimize withdrawals of deposits prior to and subsequent to the merger;. <U+0095>    Maintain and enhance existing relationships with borrowers to limit unanticipated losses from loans of Cardinal;. <U+0095>    Control the incremental non-interest expense from United to maintain overall operating efficiencies; and. <U+0095>    Compete effectively in the communities served by United and Cardinal and in nearby communities.. United may not be able to manage effectively its growth resulting from the merger.. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH UNITED'S COMMON STOCK. United's stock price can be volatile.. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for United shareholders to resell their common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive. United's stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including, among other things:. <U+0095>    Actual or anticipated negative variations in quarterly results of operations;. <U+0095>    Negative recommendations by securities analysts;. <U+0095>    Poor operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to United;. 26. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    News reports relating to negative trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry or the economy in general;. <U+0095>    Negative perceptions in the marketplace regarding United and/or its competitors;. <U+0095>    New technology used, or services offered, by competitors;. <U+0095>    Adverse changes in interest rates or a lending environment with prolonged low interest rates;. <U+0095>    Adverse changes in the real estate market;. <U+0095>    Negative economic news;. <U+0095>    Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;. <U+0095>    Adverse changes in government regulations; and. <U+0095>    Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause United's stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.. Dividend payments by United's subsidiaries to United and by United to its shareholders can be restricted.. The declaration and payment of future cash dividends will depend on, among other things, United's earnings, the general economic and regulatory climate, United's liquidity and capital requirements, and other factors deemed relevant by United's board of directors. Federal Reserve Board policy limits the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, without regulatory approval, and requires that a holding company serve as a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries.. United's principal source of funds to pay dividends on its common stock is cash dividends from its subsidiaries. The payment of these dividends by its subsidiaries is also restricted by federal and state banking laws and regulations. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $198.8 million was available for dividend payments from United Bank to United without regulatory approval.. An investment in United common stock is not an insured deposit.. United common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in United common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this section and elsewhere in this prospectus and joint proxy statement and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, someone who acquires United common stock, could lose some or all of their investment.. Certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect.. Provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult to be acquired by a third party, even if perceived to be beneficial to United's shareholders. These provisions effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which could adversely affect the market price of United's common stock."
