[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Risks Related to Our Business. We are dependent on Windstream Holdings to make payments to us under the Master Lease, and an event that materially and adversely affects Windstream's business, financial position or results of operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations.. Windstream is the lessee of the Distribution Systems pursuant to the Master Lease and, therefore, is presently the source of a substantial portion of our revenues. There can be no assurance that Windstream will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to satisfy its payment and other obligations under the Master Lease. In recent years, Windstream has experienced annual declines in its total revenue and sales.  Most recently, Windstream has endured a challenge from an entity who acquired certain Windstream debt securities for the purpose of seeking an \"event of default\" under such securities relating to the Spin-Off.  An actual \"event of default\" would permit the trustee or holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of outstanding of such Windstream debt securities to declare the principal amount of all outstanding Windstream debt to be immediately due and payable. Such an outcome would trigger cross-default provisions in Windstream's other debt instruments, including Windstream's existing credit facility, which, in turn, would trigger a default under the Master Lease. A default by Windstream under the Master Lease could materially adversely affect our business, assets, financial position, and results of operations, including our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders as required to maintain our status as a REIT.. If the Spin-Off, together with certain related transactions, fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, both we and Windstream could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify Windstream for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement entered into in connection with the Spin-Off.. Windstream received a private letter ruling (the \"IRS Ruling\") from the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") to the effect that, on the basis of certain facts presented and representations and assumptions set forth in the request submitted to the IRS, the Spin-Off will qualify as tax-free under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). Although a private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS, if the factual representations and assumptions made in the letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then Windstream will not be able to rely on the IRS Ruling. In addition, the IRS Ruling does not address certain requirements for tax-free treatment of the Spin-Off under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code and Windstream's use of Uniti indebtedness and common stock to retire certain of Windstream's indebtedness (the \"debt exchanges\"). Accordingly, the Spin-Off was conditioned upon the receipt by Windstream of a tax opinion from its counsel with respect to the requirements on which the IRS did not rule, which concluded that such requirements also should be satisfied. The tax opinion was based on, among other things, the IRS Ruling, then current law and certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by Windstream and us. Any change in currently applicable law, which may or may not be retroactive, or the failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects, could adversely affect the conclusions reached in the tax opinion. In addition, the tax opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the tax opinion.. If the Spin-Off were determined to be taxable, Windstream would recognize taxable gain. Under the terms of the tax matters agreement entered into with Windstream in connection with the Spin-Off (the \"Tax Matters Agreement\"), we are generally responsible for any taxes imposed on Windstream that arise from the failure of the Spin-Off and the debt exchanges to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, within the meaning of Section 355 and Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, as applicable, to the extent such failure to qualify is attributable to certain actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, indebtedness, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or any covenants made by us in the Tax Matters Agreement, the materials submitted to the IRS in. 13. Table of Contents. connection with the request for the IRS Ruling or the representations provided in connection with the tax opinion. Our indemnification obligations to Windstream are not limited by any maximum amount and such amounts could be substantial. If we are required to indemnify Windstream under the circumstances set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement, we may also be subject to substantial tax liabilities.. In addition, if the Spin-Off or the debt exchanges failed to qualify as tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Windstream may incur significant tax liabilities that could materially affect Windstream's ability to make payments under the Master Lease.. Our level of indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our financial position, including reducing funds available for other business purposes and reducing our operational flexibility.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding long term indebtedness of approximately $4.5 billion consisting of a combination of senior notes and term loans. Additionally, we have a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $750 million, $470 million of which was undrawn as of December 31, 2017, provided by a syndicate of banks and other financial institutions. Subject to the restrictions set forth in our debt agreements, our board of directors may establish and change our leverage policy at any time without stockholder approval. Any significant additional indebtedness could require a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. Greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. Increased indebtedness can also limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. Increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to acquire assets, finance or refinance our assets or sell assets as needed.. We intend to pursue acquisitions of additional properties and seek other strategic opportunities, which may result in the use of a significant amount of management resources or significant costs, and we may not fully realize the potential benefits of such transactions.. We intend to pursue acquisitions of additional properties and seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities. Accordingly, we currently are, and expect in the future to be, engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction, we may devote a significant amount of our management resources to such a transaction, which could negatively impact our operations. We may incur significant costs in connection with seeking acquisitions or other strategic opportunities regardless of whether the transaction is completed. In the event that we consummate an acquisition or strategic alternative in the future, there is no assurance that we would fully realize the potential benefits of such a transaction. Integration may be difficult and unpredictable, and acquisition-related integration costs, including certain non-recurring charges, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, integrating assets and businesses may significantly burden management and internal resources, including the potential loss or unavailability of key personnel. If we fail to successfully integrate the assets and businesses we acquire, we may not fully realize the potential benefits we expect, and our operating results could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to the Status of Uniti as a REIT. If we do not qualify as a REIT, or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability, which could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders and to service debt.. We operate as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain highly technical and complex asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we may not obtain independent appraisals.. 14. Table of Contents. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any resulting corporate liability could be substantial and could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock and to service debt. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from reelecting to be taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT.. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us.. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury (\"Treasury\"). Changes to the tax laws affecting REITs or TRSs, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect our stockholders or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our stockholders or us. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that new legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT, the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, the determination of the amount of REIT taxable income or the amount of tax paid by the TRSs.. We could fail to qualify as a REIT if income we receive from Windstream is not treated as qualifying income.. Under applicable provisions of the Code, we will not be treated as a REIT unless we satisfy various requirements, including requirements relating to the sources of our gross income. Rents received or accrued by us from Windstream will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if the Master Lease is not respected as a true lease for U.S. federal income tax purposes and is instead treated as a service contract, joint venture or some other type of arrangement. If the Master Lease is not respected as a true lease for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may fail to qualify as a REIT.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, in order for us to qualify as a REIT (assuming that certain other requirements are also satisfied) so that U.S. federal corporate income tax does not apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement and qualify for taxation as a REIT but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed net taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified for REITs under U.S. federal income tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code.. Our FFO is currently generated primarily by rents paid under the Master Lease. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our cash flow as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions in order to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax, including the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock and decrease cash available to service debt.. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income and state or local income, property and. 15. Table of Contents. transfer taxes. For example, we hold some of our assets and conduct certain of our activities through a TRS that is subject to U.S. federal, state and local corporate-level income taxes as a regular C corporation. In addition, we may incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with a TRS if they are not conducted on an arm's-length basis. Any of these taxes could decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders and servicing our debt.. Complying with the REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive acquisition opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and \"real estate assets\" (as defined in the Code). The remainder of our investments (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our total assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, no more than 20% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by nonqualified publicly offered REIT debt instruments (as defined in the Code). If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result of such asset limitations, we may be required to forego otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders and servicing our debt.. Risks Related to our Business. We are dependent on the communications industry and may be susceptible to the risks associated with it, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations.. As the owner, lessor and provider of communications services and distribution systems serving the communications industry, we are impacted by the risks associated with the communications industry. Therefore, our success is to some degree dependent on the communications industry, which could be adversely affected by economic conditions in general, changes in consumer trends and preferences, changes in communications technology and other factors over which we and our tenants have no control. As we are subject to risks inherent in substantial investments in a single industry, a decrease in the communications business would likely have an adverse effect on our revenues.. Our business is subject to government regulations and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business in the manner currently contemplated.. Our business, and that of our tenants, is subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulation. In certain jurisdictions these regulations could be applied or enforced retroactively. Local zoning authorities and community organizations are often opposed to construction in their communities and these regulations can delay, prevent or increase the cost of new distribution system construction and modifications, thereby limiting our ability to respond to customer demands and requirements. Existing regulatory policies may materially and adversely affect the associated timing or cost of such projects and additional regulations may be adopted which increase delays or result in additional costs to us, or that prevent such projects in certain locations. These factors could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. For more information regarding the regulations we are subject to, please see the section entitled \"Business  -  Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement.\". Any failure of Uniti Fiber's physical infrastructure or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions.. Uniti Fiber's business depends on providing customers with highly reliable service. The services provided are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including human error, power loss, improper maintenance, physical or electronic security breaches, fire, earthquake, hurricane, flood and other natural disasters, water damage, the effect of war, terrorism and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide, and sabotage and vandalism. Problems within Uniti Fiber's networks or facilities, whether within our control or the control of third-party providers, could result in service interruptions or equipment damage. We may not be able to efficiently upgrade or change Uniti Fiber's networks or facilities to meet new demands without incurring. 16. Table of Contents. significant costs that we may not be able to pass on to customers. Given the service guarantees that may be included in Uniti Fiber's agreements with customers, such disruptions could result in customer credits; however, we cannot assume that customers will accept these credits as compensation in the future, and we may face additional liability or loss of customers.. Uniti Fiber uses franchises, licenses, permits, rights-of-way, conduit leases, fiber agreements, and property leases, which could be canceled or not renewed.. Uniti Fiber must maintain rights-of-way, franchises, and other permits from railroads, utilities, state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities, and others to operate its fiber network. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in maintaining these rights-of-way agreements or obtaining future agreements on acceptable terms. Some of these agreements are short-term or revocable at will, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to have access to existing rights-of-way after they have expired or terminated. If a material portion of these agreements are terminated or are not renewed, we might be forced to abandon these networks. In order to operate these networks, we must also maintain fiber leases and indefeasible right of use (\"IRU\") agreements between Uniti Fiber and both public and private entities, and there is no assurance that we will be able to renew those fiber leases and IRU agreements on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew those fiber leases and IRU agreements on favorable terms, we may face increased costs or reduced revenues.. In order to expand Uniti Fiber's network to new locations, we often need to obtain additional rights-of-way, franchises, and other permits. Our failure to obtain these rights in a prompt and cost-effective manner may prevent us from expanding our network, which may be necessary to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and could expose us to liabilities.. If we lose or are unable to renew key real property leases where Uniti Fiber has located networks or facilities, it could adversely affect our services and increase our costs, as we would be required to restructure or move these networks or facilities.. New technologies or changes in a tenant's business model could make our business less desirable. and result in decreasing revenues.. The development and implementation of new technologies designed to enhance the efficiency of communications distribution systems, including lit fiber networks and wireless equipment, or changes in a tenant's business model due to such technological changes, could reduce the need for our services, decrease demand for tower space or fiber or reduce previously obtainable lease rates for communications infrastructure. In addition, tenants may allocate less of their budgets to certain types of communications infrastructure, as the industry is trending towards deploying increased capital to the development and implementation of new technologies. Further, a tenant may decide to no longer outsource certain types of communications infrastructure or otherwise change its business model, which would result in a decrease in our revenue. The development and implementation of any of these and similar technologies to any significant degree or changes in a tenant's business model could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. If we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur impairment charges, which would negatively impact our operating results.. At December 31, 2017, we had $673.7 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. We assess potential impairment of our goodwill at least annually. Impairment may result from significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets, negative industry or economic trends and/or significant underperformance relative to historic or projected operating results. Changes in these events and conditions or other assumptions could result in an impairment charge in the future, which could have a significant adverse impact on our reported earnings.  For a discussion of our goodwill impairment testing, see \"Critical Accounting Policies-Evaluation of Goodwill Impairment\" in Part II, Item 7A-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. 17. Table of Contents. Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our international business operations expose us to potential adverse financial and operational problems not typically experienced in the United States, including:. •  international political, economic and legal conditions;. •  our ability to comply with foreign regulations and/or laws affecting operations and projects;. •  difficulties in attracting and retaining staff and business partners to operate internationally;. •  language and cultural barriers;. •  seasonal reductions in business activities and operations in the countries where our international projects are located;. •  integration of foreign operations;. •  potential adverse tax consequences; and. •  potential foreign currency fluctuations.. In addition, many of our tenants in our international operations are subsidiaries of global telecommunications companies. These subsidiaries may not have the explicit or implied financial support of their parent entities. Any of these factors could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our continued operation and expansion outside the United States, including in developing countries, increase the risk of violations of applicable anti-corruption in the future.. Our internal policies provide for compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws, but despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from unauthorized, reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or partners.  A finding that the Company or its affiliates have violated the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") or similar foreign anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. We or our tenants may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expenses.. The Master Lease requires, and we expect that new lease agreements that we enter into will require, that the tenant maintain comprehensive insurance and hazard insurance or self-insure its insurance obligations. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of a loss. Inflation, changes in ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace the property after such property has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore the economic position with respect to such property.. In addition, even if damage to our properties is covered by insurance, a disruption of business caused by a casualty event may result in loss of revenue for our tenants or us. Any business interruption insurance may not fully compensate them or us for such loss of revenue. If one of our tenants experiences such a loss, it may be unable to satisfy its payment obligations to us under its lease with us.. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including financial transactions and maintenance of records. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide. 18. Table of Contents. security for processing, transmitting and storing confidential information. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of the data maintained in our information systems, it is possible that our security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning, or the improper disclosure of information in the event of cyber-attacks. Physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar security breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect us.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. We cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future.. It is expected that our dividend will be $2.40 per share per annum, subject to approval of our board of directors. The qualify as a REIT, the annual dividend must not be less than 90% of our REIT taxable income on an annual basis, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains. Our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors herein. Dividends will be authorized by our board of directors and declared by us based upon a number of factors, including actual results of operations, restrictions under Maryland law or applicable debt covenants, our financial condition, our taxable income, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code, our operating expenses and other factors our directors deem relevant. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash dividends or year-to-year increases in cash dividends in the future.. Furthermore, while we are required to pay dividends in order to maintain our REIT status (as described above under \"Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT- REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan\"), we may elect not to maintain our REIT status, in which case we would no longer be required to pay such dividends. Moreover, even if we do maintain our REIT status, after completing various procedural steps, we may elect to comply with the applicable distribution requirements by distributing, under certain circumstances, shares of our common stock in lieu of cash. If we elect not to maintain our REIT status or to satisfy any required distributions in shares of common stock in lieu of cash, such action could negatively affect our business and financial condition as well as the market price of our common stock. No assurance can be given that we will pay any dividends on shares of our common stock in the future.. Our charter restricts the ownership and transfer of our outstanding stock, which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or change of control of our company.. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year after the first year for which we elect to be taxed and qualify as a REIT. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year (other than the first taxable year for which we elect to be taxed and qualify as a REIT). Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as are necessary or advisable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Our charter also provides that, unless exempted by the board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% in value or in number, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock or more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of all classes and series of our stock. The constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause shares of stock owned directly or constructively by a group of related individuals or entities to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of us that might involve a premium price for shares of our stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders."
