[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS/CAUTIONARY STATEMENT AND RISK FACTORS. This report contains \"forward-looking statements\"  -  meaning, statements related to future events within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated by reference in this document which addresses activities, events or developments which we expect or anticipate will or may occur, are forward-looking statements. The words \"believes,\" \"intends,\" \"expects,\" \"anticipates,\" \"projects,\" \"estimates,\" \"predicts,\" and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. This report modifies and supersedes documents filed by us before this report. In addition, certain information we file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede information in this report.. These forward-looking statements include, among others, such things as:. • the amount and nature of our future capital expenditures and how we expect to fund our capital expenditures;. • prices for oil, NGLs, and natural gas;. • demand for oil, NGLs, and natural gas;. • our exploration and drilling prospects;. • the estimates of our proved oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserves;. • oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserve potential;. • development and infill drilling potential;. • expansion and other development trends of the oil and natural gas industry;. • our business strategy;. • our plans to maintain or increase production of oil, NGLs, and natural gas;. • the number of gathering systems and processing plants we plan to construct or acquire;. • volumes and prices for natural gas gathered and processed;. • expansion and growth of our business and operations;. • demand for our drilling rigs and drilling rig rates;. • our belief that the final outcome of our legal proceedings will not materially affect our financial results;. • our ability to timely secure third-party services used in completing our wells;. • our ability to transport or convey our oil, NGLs, or natural gas production to established pipeline systems;. • impact of federal and state legislative and regulatory actions affecting our costs and increasing operating restrictions or delays and other adverse impacts on our business;. • our projected production guidelines for the year;. • our anticipated capital budgets;. • our financial condition and liquidity;. • the number of wells our oil and natural gas segment plans to drill during the year; and. • our estimates of the amounts of any ceiling test write-downs or other potential asset impairments we may have to record in future periods.. These statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by us considering our experience and our perception of historical trends, current conditions, and expected future developments and other factors we believe are appropriate in the circumstances. Whether actual results and developments will conform to our expectations and predictions is subject to several risks and uncertainties any one or combination of which could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations and predictions, including:. • the risk factors discussed in this document and in the documents (if any) we incorporate by reference;. 22. Table of Contents. • general economic, market, or business conditions;. • the availability of and nature of (or lack of) business opportunities we pursue;. • demand for our land drilling services;. • changes in laws or regulations;. • changes in the current geopolitical situation;. • risks relating to financing, including restrictions in our debt agreements and availability and cost of credit;. • risks associated with future weather conditions;. • decreases or increases in commodity prices; and. • other factors, most of which are beyond our control.. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we disclaim any intention to update forward-looking information and to release publicly the results of any future revisions we may make to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document to reflect unanticipated events.. To help provide you with a more thorough understanding of the possible effects of these influences on any forward-looking statements made by us, this discussion outlines some (but not all) of the factors that could cause our consolidated results to differ materially from those that may be presented in any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf.. Demand for our contract drilling and mid-stream services depends substantially on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. A substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could cause lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for our contract drilling and mid-stream services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures depend generally on the industry's view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry's view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Declines, and anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts owed to us. These effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could cause a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could hurt our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Oil, NGLs, and Natural Gas Prices. Besides the impact oil and gas prices may have on our contract drilling and mid-stream segments, the prices we receive for our oil, NGLs, and natural gas production directly affect our revenues, profitability, and cash flow and our ability to meet our projected financial and operational goals. The prices for oil, NGLs, and natural gas are determined on several factors beyond our control, including:. • the demand for and supply of oil, NGLs, and natural gas;. • weather conditions in the continental United States (which can greatly influence the demand and prices for natural gas);. • the amount and timing of oil, liquid natural gas, and liquefied petroleum gas imports and exports;. • the ability of distribution systems in the United States to effectively meet the demand for oil, NGLs, and natural gas, particularly in times of peak demand which may result because of adverse weather conditions;. • the ability or willingness of the OPEC to set and maintain production levels for oil;. • oil and gas production levels by non-OPEC countries;. • the level of excess production capacity;. • political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical activity;. • governmental policies and subsidies;. 23. Table of Contents. • the costs of exploring for producing and delivering oil and gas; and. • technological advances affecting energy consumption.. Oil prices are extremely sensitive to influences domestic and foreign based on political, social or economic underpinnings, any of which could have an immediate and significant effect on the price and supply of oil. In addition, prices of oil, NGLs, and natural gas have been at various times influenced by trading on the commodities markets. That trading has increased the volatility associated with these prices resulting in large differences in prices even on a week-to-week and month-to-month basis. These factors, especially when coupled with much of our product prices being determined daily, can, and do, lead to wide fluctuations in the prices we receive.. Based on our 2017 production, a $0.10 per Mcf change in what we receive for our natural gas production, without the effect of derivatives, would cause a corresponding $410,000 per month ($4.9 million annualized) change in our pre-tax operating cash flow. A $1.00 per barrel change in our oil price, without the effect of derivatives, would have a $217,000 per month ($2.6 million annualized) change in our pre-tax operating cash flow and a $1.00 per barrel change in our NGLs price, without the effect of derivatives, would have a $380,000 per month ($4.6 million annualized) change in our pre-tax operating cash flow.. To reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in the price of oil, NGLs, and natural gas, we sometimes enter into derivative contracts such as swaps and collars. To date, we have derivatives covering part, but not all of our production which provides price protection only against declines in oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices on the production subject to our derivatives, but not otherwise. Should market prices for the production we have derivatives exceed the prices due under our derivative contracts, our derivative contracts then expose us to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit to us of those increases in market prices. During 2017, all of our NGLs volumes, half of our oil, and about a quarter of our natural gas volumes were sold at market responsive prices. To help manage our cash flow and capital expenditure requirements, we had derivative contracts on approximately 50% and 72% of our 2017 average daily production for oil and natural gas, respectively. A more thorough discussion of our derivative arrangements is contained in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report in Item 7.. Uncertainty of Oil, NGLs, and Natural Gas Reserves; Ceiling Test. Many uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. The oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserve information in this report represents only an estimate of these reserves. Oil, NGLs, and natural gas reservoir engineering is a subjective and an inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil, NGLs, and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserves depend on several variable factors, including historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, and assumptions about:. • reservoir size;. • the effects of regulations by governmental agencies;. • future oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices;. • future operating costs;. • severance and excise taxes;. • operational risks;. • development costs; and. • workover and remedial costs.. Some or all of these assumptions may vary considerably from actual results. For these and other reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil, NGLs, and natural gas attributable to any group of properties, classifications of those oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows from oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserve estimates may be subject to periodic downward or upward adjustments. Actual production, revenues, and expenditures regarding our oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserves will likely vary from estimates and those variances may be material.. 24. Table of Contents. The information regarding discounted future net cash flows in this report is not necessarily the current market value of the estimated oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. Using full cost accounting requires us to use the unweighted arithmetic average of the commodity prices existing on the first day of each of the 12 months before the end of the reporting period to calculate discounted future revenues, unless prices were otherwise determined under contractual arrangements. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows are also affected, in part, by these factors:. • the amount and timing of oil, NGLs, and natural gas production;. • supply and demand for oil, NGLs, and natural gas;. • increases or decreases in consumption; and. • changes in governmental regulations or taxation.. In addition, the 10% discount factor, required by the SEC for calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and the risks associated with our operations or the oil and natural gas industry.. We review quarterly the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties under the full cost accounting rules of the SEC. Under these rules, capitalized costs of proved oil and natural gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues from those proved reserves, discounted at 10%. Application of this \"ceiling test\" generally requires pricing future revenue at the unescalated 12-month average price and requires a write-down for accounting purposes if we exceed the ceiling. We may be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties when oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices are depressed. If a write-down is required, it would cause a charge to earnings but would not impact our cash flow from operating activities. Once incurred, a write-down is not reversible.. Debt and Bank Borrowing. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures in our operations. Historically, we have funded our capital needs through a combination of internally generated cash flow and borrowings under our bank credit agreement. In 2011 and 2012, we issued $250.0 million (the 2011 Notes) and $400.0 million (the 2012 Notes), respectively, of senior subordinated notes (collectively, the Notes). We have, and will continue to have, a certain amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2017, we had $178.0 million of outstanding long-term debt under our credit agreement, and $642.3 million, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs, under the Notes.. Depending on our debt, the cash flow needed to satisfy that debt and the covenants in our bank credit agreement and those applicable to the Notes could:. • limit funds otherwise available for financing our capital expenditures, our drilling program or other activities or cause us to curtail these activities;. • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that are less indebted than we are;. • make us more vulnerable during periods of low oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices or if a downturn in our business occurs; and. • prevent us from obtaining additional financing on acceptable terms or limit amounts available under our existing or any future credit facilities.. Our ability to meet our debt obligations depends on our future performance. If the requirements of our indebtedness are not satisfied, a default could be deemed to occur and our lenders or the holders of the Notes could accelerate the payment of the outstanding indebtedness. If that were to happen, we would not have sufficient funds available (and probably could not obtain the financing required) to meet our obligations.. Our existing debt, and our future debt, if any, is, largely, based on the costs associated with the projects we undertake and of our cash flow. Generally, our normal operating costs are those resulting from the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, the acquisition of producing properties, the costs associated with the maintenance, upgrade, or expansion of our drilling rig fleet, and the operations of our natural gas buying, selling, gathering, processing, and treating systems. To some extent, these costs, particularly the first two, are discretionary and we maintain some control regarding the timing or the need to incur them. But, sometimes, unforeseen circumstances may arise, like an unanticipated opportunity to make a large acquisition or the need to. 25. Table of Contents. replace a costly drilling rig component due to an unexpected loss, which could force us to incur additional debt above what we had expected or forecasted. Likewise, if our cash flow should prove insufficient to cover our cash requirements we would need to increase our debt either through bank borrowings or otherwise.. RISK FACTORS. Many other factors could hurt our business. This discussion describes the material risks currently known to us. However, additional risks we do not know about or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business or hurt the value of our securities. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this report.. If demand for oil, NGLs, and natural gas is reduced, our ability to market and produce our oil, NGLs, and natural gas may be negatively affected.. Historically, oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices have been volatile, with significant increases and significant price drops being experienced occasionally. Various factors beyond our control will have a significant effect on oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices. Those factors include, among other things, the domestic and foreign supply of oil, NGLs, and natural gas, the price of imports, the levels of consumer demand, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the availability of pipeline capacity, and changes in existing and proposed federal regulation and price controls.. The oil, NGLs, and natural gas markets are also unsettled due to several factors. Production from oil and natural gas wells in some geographic areas of the United States has been curtailed for considerable periods of time due to a lack of market demand and transportation and storage capacity. It is possible, however, that some of our wells may be shut-in or that oil, NGLs, and natural gas will be sold on terms less favorable than might otherwise be obtained should demand for oil, NGLs, and natural gas decrease. Competition for markets has been vigorous and there remains great uncertainty about prices that purchasers will pay. Oil, NGLs, and natural gas surpluses could cause our inability to market oil, NGLs, and natural gas profitably, causing us to curtail production and/or receive lower prices for our oil, NGLs, and natural gas, situations which would hurt us.. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing or refinance existing indebtedness on reasonable terms and may have other adverse effects.. Commercial-credit and equity market disruptions may cause tight capital markets in the United States. Liquidity in the global-capital markets can be severely contracted by market disruptions making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in certain cases, result in the unavailability of certain types of financing. Because credit and equity market turmoil, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing, or refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms, which could affect operations and financial performance.. Oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices have negatively affected our financial results and could do so in the future.. Our revenues, operating results, cash flow, and growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil, NGLs, and natural gas. Historically, oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices and markets have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Any decline in prices would have a negative impact on our future financial results and our ability to grow our business segments.. Prices for oil, NGLs, and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the actual or perceived supply of and demand for oil, NGLs, and natural gas, market uncertainty, and many additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include:. • political conditions in oil producing regions;. • the ability of the members of the OPEC to agree on prices and their ability or willingness to maintain production quotas;. • actions taken by foreign oil and natural gas companies;. • the price of foreign oil imports;. • imports and exports of oil and liquefied natural gas;. 26. Table of Contents. • actions of governmental authorities;. • the domestic and foreign supply of oil, NGLs, and natural gas;. • the level of consumer demand;. • United States storage levels of oil, NGLs, and natural gas;. • weather conditions;. • domestic and foreign government regulations;. • the price, availability, and acceptance of alternative fuels;. • volatility in ethane prices causing rejection of ethane as part of the liquids processed stream; and. • worldwide economic conditions.. These factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of oil, NGLs, and natural gas.. Our contract drilling operations depend on levels of activity in the oil, NGLs, and natural gas exploration and production industry.. Our contract drilling operations depend on the level of activity in oil, NGLs, and natural gas exploration and production in our operating markets. Both short-term and long-term trends in oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices affect the level of that activity. Because oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices are volatile, the level of exploration and production activity can also be volatile. Any decrease from current oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices could further depress the level of exploration and production activity. This, in turn, would likely result in further declines in the demand for our drilling services and would have an adverse effect on our contract drilling revenues, cash flows, and profitability. As a result, the future demand for our drilling services is uncertain.. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and many of our competitors have resources greater than we do.. The drilling industry in which we operate is generally very competitive. Most drilling contracts are awarded based on competitive bids, which may cause intense price competition. Some of our competitors in the contract drilling industry have greater financial and human resources than we do. These resources may enable them to better withstand periods of low drilling rig utilization, to compete more effectively based on price and technology, to build new drilling rigs or acquire existing drilling rigs, and to provide drilling rigs more quickly than we do in periods of high drilling rig utilization.. The oil and natural gas industry is also highly competitive. We compete in the areas of property acquisitions and oil and natural gas exploration, development, production, and marketing with major oil companies, other independent oil and natural gas concerns, and individual producers and operators. In addition, we must compete with major and independent oil and natural gas concerns in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. Many of our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry have resources substantially greater than we do.. The mid-stream industry is also highly competitive. We compete in areas of gathering, processing, transporting, and treating natural gas with other mid-stream companies. We are continually competing with larger mid-stream companies for acquisitions and construction projects. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources, human resources, and geographic presence larger than we do.. Growth through acquisitions is not assured.. We have experienced growth in each segment, in part, through mergers and acquisitions. The contract land drilling industry, the exploration and development industry, and the gas gathering and processing industry, have experienced significant consolidation over the past several years, and there can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available. Even if available, there is no assurance we would have the financial ability to pursue the opportunity. And we are likely to continue to face intense competition from other companies for acquisition opportunities.. 27. Table of Contents. There can be no assurance we will:. • be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities;. • have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions;. • successfully integrate acquired operations and assets;. • effectively manage the growth and increased size;. • maintain the crews and market share to operate any future drilling rigs we may acquire; or. • improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects in any material manner because of any completed acquisition.. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue debt instruments, equity securities, or convertible securities in connection with any acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition and issuing additional equity would be dilutive to existing shareholders. Also, continued growth could strain our management, operations, employees, and other resources.. Successful acquisitions, particularly those of oil and natural gas companies or of oil and natural gas properties, require an assessment of several factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices, operating costs, and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain.. Our operations have significant capital requirements, and our indebtedness could have important consequences.. We have experienced and will continue to experience substantial capital needs for our operations. We have $642.3 million of indebtedness outstanding (net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs) under the senior subordinated notes we have issued to date and, in addition, may borrow up to $475.0 million under our credit agreement. As of February 13, 2018, we had $173.8 million outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement. Our level of indebtedness, the cash flow to satisfy our indebtedness, and the covenants governing our indebtedness could:. • limit funds available for financing capital expenditures, our drilling program or other activities or cause us to curtail these activities;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage to some of our competitors that are less leveraged than we are;. • make us more vulnerable during periods of low oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices or if downturn in our business occurs; and. • prevent us from obtaining additional financing on acceptable terms or limit amounts available under our existing or any future credit facilities.. Our ability to meet our debt service and other contractual and contingent obligations will depend on our future performance. In addition, lower oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices could cause future reductions in the amount available for borrowing under our credit agreement, reducing our liquidity, and even triggering mandatory loan repayments.. The instruments governing our indebtedness contain various covenants limiting the conduct of our business.. The indentures governing our senior subordinated notes and our credit agreement contain various restrictive covenants that limit the conduct of our business. These agreements place certain limits on our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness, guarantee obligations or issue disqualified capital stock;. • pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock;. • make investments or other restricted payments;. • grant liens on assets;. • enter into transactions with stockholders or affiliates;. 28. Table of Contents. • sell assets;. • issue or sell capital stock of certain subsidiaries; and. • merge or consolidate.. In addition, our credit agreement also requires us to maintain a minimum current ratio and a maximum senior indebtedness or leverage ratio.. If we violate the restrictions in the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes, our credit agreement or any other subsequent financing agreements, a default may allow the creditors, if the agreements so provide, to accelerate the related indebtedness and any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. If that occurs, we may not make the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance that debt. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to make available further funds.. Our future performance depends on our ability to find or acquire additional oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable.. Production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Unless we replace the reserves we produce, our reserves will decline, resulting eventually in a decrease in oil, NGLs, and natural gas production and lower revenues and cash flow from operations. Historically, we have increased reserves after taking production into account through exploration and development. We have conducted these activities on our existing oil and natural gas properties and on newly acquired properties. We may not continue to replace reserves from these activities at acceptable costs. Lower prices of oil, NGLs, and natural gas may further limit the reserves that can economically be developed. Lower prices also decrease our cash flow and may cause us to decrease capital expenditures.. We are continually identifying and evaluating opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties, including acquisitions significantly larger than those consummated by us. We cannot assure you we will successfully consummate any acquisition, that we can acquire producing oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or that any acquisition will be profitably integrated into our operations.. The competition for producing oil and natural gas properties is intense. This competition could mean that to acquire properties we must pay higher prices and accept greater ownership risks than we have in the past.. Our exploration and production and mid-stream operations involve high business and financial risk which could hurt us.. Exploration and development involve numerous risks that may cause dry holes, the failure to produce oil, NGLs, and natural gas in commercial quantities and the inability to fully produce discovered reserves. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating wells is substantial and uncertain. Numerous factors beyond our control may cause the curtailment, delay, or cancellation of drilling operations, including:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • pressure or irregularities in formations;. • capacity of pipeline systems;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • adverse weather conditions;. • compliance with governmental requirements; and. • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, pressure pumping services, or delivery crews and the delivery of equipment.. Exploratory drilling is a speculative activity. Although we may disclose our overall drilling success rate, those rates may decline. Although we may discuss drilling prospects we have identified or budgeted for, we may ultimately not lease or drill these prospects within the expected time frame, or at all. Lack of drilling success will have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition.. 29. Table of Contents. Our mid-stream operations involve numerous risks, both financial and operational. The cost of developing gathering systems and processing plants is substantial and our ability to recoup these costs is uncertain. Our operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled because of many things beyond our control, including:. • unexpected changes in the deliverability of natural gas reserves from the wells connected to the gathering systems;. • availability of competing pipelines in the area;. • capacity of pipeline systems;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • adverse weather conditions;. • compliance with governmental requirements;. • delays in developing other producing properties within the gathering system's area of operation; and. • demand for natural gas and its constituents.. Many of the wells from which we gather and process natural gas are operated by other parties. We have little control over the operations of those wells which can act to increase our risk. Operators of those wells may act in ways not in our best interests.. Competition for experienced technical personnel may negatively affect our operations or financial results.. The success of our three segments and the success of our other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced geologists, engineers, and other professionals. Competition for these professionals can be intense, particularly when the industry is experiencing favorable conditions.. Our derivative arrangements might limit the benefit of increases in oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices.. To reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in the price of oil, NGLs, and natural gas, we sometimes enter into derivative contracts. These derivative contracts apply to only a portion of our production and provide only partial price protection against declines in oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices. These derivative contracts may expose us to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit to us of increases in prices.. Estimates of our reserves are uncertain and may prove inaccurate.. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserves depend on several variable factors, including historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, and assumptions about:. • the effects of regulations by governmental agencies;. • future oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices;. • future operating costs;. • severance and excise taxes;. • development costs; and. • workover and remedial costs.. Some or all of these assumptions may vary considerably from actual results. Estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil, NGLs, and natural gas attributable to any group of properties, classifications of those reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows from reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenues and expenditures regarding our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and those variances may be material.. 30. Table of Contents. The information regarding discounted future net cash flows should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices on the first day of the month for each month within the 12-month period before the end of the reporting period and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by these factors:. • the amount and timing of actual production;. • supply and demand for oil, NGLs, and natural gas;. • increases or decreases in consumption; and. • changes in governmental regulations or taxation.. In addition, the 10% per year discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our operations or the oil and natural gas industry.. If oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices decrease or are unusually volatile, we may have to take write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties, the carrying value of our drilling rigs or our natural gas gathering and processing systems.. We review quarterly the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties under the full cost accounting rules of the SEC. Under these rules, capitalized costs of proved oil and natural gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10% per year. Application of the ceiling test generally requires pricing future revenue at the unweighted arithmetic average of the price on the first day of month for each month within the 12-month period before the end of the reporting period, unless prices were defined by contractual arrangements, and requires a write-down for accounting purposes if the ceiling is exceeded. We may be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties when oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices are depressed. If a write-down is required, it would cause a charge to earnings, but would not impact cash flow from operating activities. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible later. Because our ceiling tests use a rolling 12-month look back average price it is possible that a write down during a reporting period will not remove the need for us to take additional write downs in one or more succeeding periods. This would be the case when months with higher commodity prices roll off the 12-month period and are replaced with more recent months having lower commodity prices.. Our drilling equipment, transportation equipment, gas gathering and processing systems, and other property and equipment are carried at cost. We are required to periodically test to see if these values, including associated goodwill and other intangible assets, have been impaired whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If any of these assets are determined to be impaired, the loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. An estimate of fair value is based on the best information available, including prices for similar assets. Changes in these estimates could cause us to reduce the carrying value of property, equipment, and related intangible assets. Once these values have been reduced, they are not reversible.. Our operations present inherent risks of loss that, if not insured or indemnified against, could hurt our results of operations.. Our contract drilling operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling industry, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of hole, damaged or lost drilling equipment, and damage or loss from inclement weather. Our exploration and production and mid-stream operations are subject to these and similar risks. These events could cause personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of equipment and facilities, suspension of operations, environmental damage, and damage to the property of others. Generally, drilling contracts provide for the division of responsibilities between a drilling company and its customer, and we seek to obtain indemnification from our drilling customers by contract for some of these risks. If we cannot transfer these risks to drilling customers by contract or indemnification agreements (or to the extent we assume obligations of indemnity or assume liability for certain risks under our drilling contracts), we seek protection from some of these risks through insurance. However, some risks are not covered by insurance and we cannot assure you that the insurance we have or the indemnification agreements we have will adequately protect us against liability from the consequences of the hazards described above. An event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations, could cause substantial losses. In addition, we cannot assure you that insurance will be available to cover any or all of these risks. Even if available, the insurance might not be adequate to cover all of our losses, or we might decide against obtaining that insurance because of high premiums or other costs.. 31. Table of Contents. We do not operate many of the wells in which we own an interest. Our operating risks for those wells and our ability to influence the operations for those wells are less subject to our control. Operators of those wells may act in ways not in our best interests.. Governmental and environmental regulations could hurt our business.. Our business is subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations on taxation, the exploration for and development, production, and marketing of oil and natural gas, and safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste, unitization and pooling of properties, and other matters. These laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating, and abandoning our oil and natural gas wells and other facilities. In addition, these laws and regulations, and any others that are passed by the jurisdictions where we have production, could limit the number of wells drilled or the allowable production from successful wells, which could limit our revenues.. We are (or could become) subject to complex environmental laws and regulations adopted by the jurisdictions where we own or operate. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for discharges of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water, including responsibility for remedial costs. We could discharge these materials into the environment in many ways including:. • from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site;. • from gathering systems, pipelines, transportation facilities, and storage tanks;. • damage to oil and natural gas wells resulting from accidents during normal operations;. • sabotage; and. • blowouts, cratering, and explosions.. Because the requirements imposed by laws and regulations frequently change, we cannot assure you that future laws and regulations, including changes to existing laws and regulations, will not hurt our business. The Congress and White House administration may impose or change laws and regulations that will hurt our business. Stricter standards, greater regulation, and more extensive permit requirements, could increase our future risks and costs related to environmental matters. In addition, because we acquire interests in properties operated in the past by others, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by the former operators, which liability could be material.. Any future implementation of price controls on oil, NGLs, and natural gas would affect our operations.. Certain groups have asserted efforts to have the United States Congress impose price controls on either oil, natural gas, or both. There is no way at this time to know what result these efforts will have nor, if implemented, their effect on our operations. However, it is possible that these efforts, if successful, would limit the amount we might get for our future oil, NGLs, and natural gas production. Any future limits on the price of oil, NGLs, and natural gas could also cause hurting the demand for our drilling services.. Provisions of Delaware law and our by-laws and charter could discourage change in control transactions and prevent shareholders from receiving a premium on their investment.. Our by-laws and charter provide for a classified board of directors with staggered terms and authorizes the board of directors to set the terms of preferred stock. In addition, our charter and Delaware law contain provisions that impose restrictions on business combinations with interested parties. Because of our by-laws, charter, and Delaware law, persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals may be more likely to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. These provisions may make it more difficult for our shareholders to benefit from transactions opposed by an incumbent board of directors.. 32. Table of Contents. New technologies may cause our exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete, resulting in an adverse effect on our production.. Our industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical, and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We cannot be certain that we can implement technologies timely or at a cost acceptable to us. One or more technologies that we use or that we may implement may become obsolete or may not work as we expected and we may be hurt.. We may be affected by climate change and market or regulatory responses to climate change.. Climate change, including the impact of potential global warming regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gasses, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that (a) use commodities we carry to produce energy, (b) use significant energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or (c) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant energy or burn fossil fuels, including chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities associated with our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain of our customers and the markets for certain of the commodities associated with our business in an unpredictable manner that could alter our business activities. Finally, we could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change. These factors, individually or in operation with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could reduce the business activity we conduct and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. The results of our operations depend on our ability to transport oil, NGLs, and gas production to key markets.. The marketability of our oil, NGLs, and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of pipeline systems, refineries, and other transportation sources. The unavailability of or lack of capacity on these systems and facilities could cause the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Federal and state regulation of oil, NGLs, and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines, and general economic conditions could hurt our ability to produce, gather and, transport oil, NGLs, and natural gas.. Losing one or several of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. During 2017, sales to Sunoco Logistics accounted for 10% of our oil and natural gas revenues. QEP Resources, Inc. was our largest drilling customer accounting for approximately 26% of our total contract drilling revenues. And for our mid-stream segment, ONEOK, Inc. accounted for approximately 36% of our revenues. No other third party customer accounted for 10% or more of any of our individual segment revenues. Any of our customers may choose not to use our services and losing several our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if we could not find replacements.. Shortage of completion equipment and services could delay or otherwise hurt our oil and natural gas segment's operations.. As there is an increase in horizontal drilling activity in certain areas, shortages could cause the availability of third party equipment and services required for completing wells drilled by our oil and natural gas segment. We could experience delays in completing some of our wells. Although we can try to reduce the delays associated with these services, we anticipate these services will be in high demand for the immediate future and could delay, restrict, or curtail part of our exploration and development operations, which could in turn harm our results.. 33. Table of Contents. Our mid-stream segment depends on certain natural gas producers and pipeline operators for a significant portion of its supply of natural gas and NGLs. Losing any of these producers could cause a decline in our volumes and revenues.. We rely on certain natural gas producers for a significant portion of our natural gas and NGLs supply. While some of these producers are subject to long-term contracts, we may not negotiate extensions or replacements of these contracts on favorable terms, if at all. Losing all or even a portion of the natural gas volumes supplied by these producers, because of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our mid-stream segment unless we acquired comparable volumes from other sources.. The counterparties to our commodity derivative contracts may not perform their obligations to us, which could materially affect our cash flows and results of operations.. To reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently, and may in the future, enter into commodity derivative contracts for a significant portion of our forecasted oil, NGLs, and natural gas production. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities, and to the ability of counterparties under our commodity derivative contracts to satisfy their obligations to us. If one or more of our counterparties is unable or unwilling to pay us under our commodity derivative contracts, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Reliance on management.. We depend greatly on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. The loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income and materially impairing our financial position.. The nature of our business makes us highly susceptible to claims and litigation. We are subject to various existing legal claims and lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Any claims or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future.. Derivative regulations in current financial reform legislation could impede our ability to manage business and financial risks by restricting our use of derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices and interest rates.. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Act) was passed by Congress and signed into law. The Act contains significant derivative regulations, requiring that certain transactions be cleared on exchanges and a requirement to post cash collateral (commonly called margin) for such transactions. The Act provides for a potential exception from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users and it includes several defined terms used in determining how this exception applies to particular derivative transactions and the parties to those transactions.. We use crude oil and natural gas derivative instruments regarding a portion of our expected production to reduce commodity price uncertainty and enhance the predictability of cash flows relating the marketing our crude oil and natural gas. As commodity prices increase, our derivative liability positions increase; however, none of our current derivative contracts require posting margin or similar cash collateral when there are changes in the underlying commodity prices referred to in these contracts.. Depending on the rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC, we could have to post collateral with our dealer counterparties for our commodities derivative transactions. Such a requirement could have a significant impact on our business by reducing our ability to execute derivative transactions to reduce commodity price uncertainty and to protect cash flows. Requirements to post collateral would cause significant liquidity issues by reducing our ability to use cash for investment or other corporate purposes, or would require us to increase our level of debt. In addition, a requirement for our counterparties to post collateral would likely cause additional costs being passed on to us, thereby decreasing the effectiveness of our derivative contracts and our profitability.. 34. Table of Contents. Proposed federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could cause increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. Hydraulic-fracturing is an essential and common practice in the oil and gas industry used to stimulate production of oil, natural gas, and associated liquids from dense subsurface rock formations. Our oil and natural gas segment routinely apply hydraulic-fracturing techniques to many of our oil and natural gas properties, including our unconventional resource plays in the Granite Wash of Texas and Oklahoma, the Marmaton and Hoxbar of Oklahoma, the Wilcox of Texas, and the Mississippian of Kansas. Hydraulic-fracturing involves using water, sand, and certain chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow the flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions; however, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic-fracturing activities involving diesel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and published permitting guidance addressing the performance of such activities using diesel. The EPA is also seeking to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and the bureau of Land Management has imposed requirements for hydraulic fracturing activities of federal lands. In addition, Congress has occasionally considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic-fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process.. Certain states in which we operate, including Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Colorado, and Wyoming, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure of fracking fluids, waste disposal, and well construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. For example, Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure to the Railroad Commission of Texas (RCT) and the public of certain information regarding the components used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. Besides state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling and/or hydraulic fracturing. If state, local, or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are conducting, or plan to conduct operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant, experience delays or curtailment pursuing exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling and/or completion of wells.. There are certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic-fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating a review of hydraulic-fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives investigated hydraulic-fracturing practices. Furthermore, several federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, many environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA is evaluating the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy has investigated practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic-fracturing completion methods.. And certain members of the Congress have called on the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might hurt water resources, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate the natural gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency's estimates regarding natural gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, and uncertainties associated with those estimates. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their course and results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory processes.. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil, natural gas, and associated liquids including from developing shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of additional federal, state or local laws or implementing regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could cause a decrease in completing of new oil and gas wells, increased compliance costs and time, which could hurt our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our ability to produce crude oil, natural gas, and associated liquids economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we cannot acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations and/or completions or cannot dispose of or recycle the water we use at a reasonable cost and under applicable environmental rules.. To our knowledge, there have been no citations, suits, or contamination of potable drinking water arising from our fracturing operations. We do not have insurance policies in effect intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to. 35. Table of Contents. hydraulic fracturing operations; however, our general liability and excess liability insurance policies might cover third-party claims related to hydraulic fracturing operations and associated legal expenses depending on the specific nature of the claims, the timing of the claims, and the specific terms of such policies.. Uncertainty regarding increased seismic activity in Oklahoma and Kansas.. We conduct oil and natural gas exploration, development and drilling activities in Oklahoma, Kansas, and elsewhere. In recent years, Oklahoma and Kansas has experienced a significant increase in earthquakes and other seismic activity. Some parties believe there is a correlation between certain oil and gas activities and the increased occurrence of earthquakes. The extent of this correlation is the subject of studies by both state and federal agencies the results of which remain uncertain. We cannot state at this time what if any impact this seismic activity may have on us or our industry.. The hydraulic fracturing process on which we depend to produce commercial quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and associated NGLs from many reservoirs requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water.. Our inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our oil and natural gas segment operations, could adversely affect our operations. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of wastes, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and natural gas.. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and, use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions, or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. We may decide not to drill some prospects we have identified, and locations we drill may not yield oil, NGLs, and natural gas in commercially viable quantities.. Our oil and natural gas segment's prospective drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect ready to drill to a prospect that will require additional geological and engineering analysis. Based on many factors, including future oil, NGLs, natural gas prices, the generation of additional seismic or geological information, and other factors, we may decide not to drill one or more of these prospects. As a result, we may not increase or maintain our reserves or production, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. In addition, the SEC's reserve reporting rules require that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of booking. At December 31, 2017, we had 99 proved undeveloped drilling locations. If we do not drill these locations within five years of initial booking, they may not continue to qualify for classification as proved reserves, and we may have to reclassify such reserves as unproved reserves. The reclassification of those reserves could also have a negative effect on the borrowing base under our credit facility.. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can hurt the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomic if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough oil, NGLs, and natural gas to be commercially viable after drilling, operating, and other costs.. The borrowing base under our credit agreement is determined semi-annually at the discretion of the lenders and is based in a large part on the prices for oil, NGLs, and natural gas.. Significant declines in oil, NGLs, and natural gas prices may cause a decrease in our borrowing base. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and therefore the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our credit agreement. If outstanding borrowings are over the borrowing base, we must (a) repay the amount in excess of the borrowing base, (b) dedicate additional properties to the borrowing base, or (c) begin monthly principal payments under our credit agreement.. Potential listing of species as \"endangered\" under the federal Endangered Species Act could cause increased costs and new operating restrictions or delays on our operations and that of our customers, which could hurt our operations and financial results.. The federal Endangered Species Act, referred to as the \"ESA,\" and analogous state laws regulate a variety of activities, including oil and gas development, which could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the. 36. Table of Contents. ESA or their habitats. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could cause oil and natural gas exploration and production operators and service companies to incur additional costs or become subject to operating delays, restrictions or bans in affected areas, which impacts could adversely reduce the amount of drilling activities in affected areas. All three of our business segments could be subject to the effect of one or more species being listed as threatened or endangered within the areas of our operations. Numerous species have been listed or proposed for protected status in areas in which we provide or could in the future undertake operations. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries in 2016 issued final revised definitions relating to impacts on critical habitats for potentially endangered species allowing exclusion of certain areas so long as they will not result in the extinction of the species. In 2017, the Western Governor's Association issued a Policy Resolution calling on Congress to amend and reauthorize the ESA based upon seven broad goals to make the act more workable and understandable. In December 2017, the Interior Department announced that it is working on possible changes to the ESA with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to revise the regulations for listing endangered and threatened species and for designation of critical habitat. The presence of protected species in areas where we provide contract drilling or mid-stream services or conduct exploration and production operations could impair our ability to timely complete or carry out those services and, consequently, adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. Constructing our new proprietary BOSS drilling rigs is subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, and may not meet our expectations.. We have designed and built several new proprietary 1,500 horsepower AC electric drilling rigs, which we call BOSS drilling rigs. This new design should position us to better meet the demands of our customers. Constructing any future new BOSS drilling rigs is subject to the risks of delays or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project because of numerous possible factors, including:. • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor;. • work stoppages and labor disputes;. • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment;. • unanticipated increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials used in construction of our drilling rigs, particularly steel;. • weather interferences;. • difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions;. • unforeseen design and engineering problems;. • failure or delay in obtaining acceptance of the drilling rig from our customer;. • failure or delay of third party equipment vendors or service providers; and. • lack of demand from the downturn in the oil and gas industry.. On our new BOSS drilling rigs, there can be no assurance we will:. • obtain additional new-build contract opportunities; or. • improve our financial condition, results of operations or prospects because of the new drilling rigs.. While we hold certain patents regarding our BOSS drilling rig design, it is still possible that third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. We may receive notices from others claiming that our BOSS drilling rig design infringes on their intellectual property rights. In that event we may resolve these claims by signing royalty and licensing agreements, redesigning the drilling rig, or paying damages. These outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. Besides money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent marketing and use of our drilling rigs that have infringing technologies.. Terrorist attacks or cyber-attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Terrorist attacks or cyber-attacks may significantly affect the energy industry, and economic conditions, including our operations and our customers, as well as general economic conditions, consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of future attacks than other targets in the United States. A. 37. Table of Contents. cyber incident could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss. Our insurance may not protect us against such occurrences. Consequently, it is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The oil and natural gas industry has become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications and services, to operate our businesses, process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our employees and business partners, analyze seismic and drilling information, estimate quantities of natural gas reserves, and perform other activities related to our businesses. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology.. As dependence on digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have also increased. A cyber-attack could include gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption, or result in denial-of-service on websites.. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business partners may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period.. Deliberate attacks on our assets, or security breaches in our systems or infrastructure, the systems or infrastructure of third-parties or the cloud could lead to corruption or loss of our proprietary data and potentially sensitive data, delays in production or delivery, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining our books and records, environmental damage, communication interruptions, other operational disruptions and third-party liability, including the following:. • a cyber-attack on a vendor or service provider could result in supply chain disruptions which could delay or halt development of additional infrastructure, effectively delaying the start of cash flows from the project;. • a cyber-attack on our facilities may result in equipment damage or failure;. • a cyber-attack on mid-stream or downstream pipelines could prevent our product from being delivered, resulting in a loss of revenues;. • a cyber-attack on a communications network or power grid could cause operational disruption resulting in loss of revenues;. •  deliberate corruption of our financial or operational data could result in events of non-compliance which could lead to regulatory fines or penalties; and. • business interruptions could result in expensive remediation efforts, distraction of management, damage to our reputation, or a negative impact on the price of our units.. Implementation of various controls and processes to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities and infrastructure is costly and labor intensive. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such measures will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. We are not aware that any such breaches have occurred.. We are the subject of putative class action lawsuits that may result in substantial expenditures and divert management's attention.. We are the subject of putative class action lawsuits in Oklahoma with respect to the alleged failure to pay interest with on untimely royalty payments and with respect to the alleged underpayment of royalties. These lawsuits seek various remedies, including damages, injunctive relief, and attorney's fees. For additional information on these lawsuits, see Item 3 Legal Proceedings in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Although we believe that the allegations in these lawsuits are without merit and intend to defend such litigation vigorously, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in one of these lawsuits or other matters that may arise from time to time could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 38. Table of Contents. Defending the lawsuits may be costly and, further, could require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management's attention from our business and operations."
