[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Many factors affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial conditions or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.  In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and our stockholders could lose all or part of their investment in our securities.  Additional risks and uncertainties we are unaware of, or we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. Before making an investment in our securities, investors should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below, together with the other information in this report, including the section entitled Forward-looking Statements and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the other reports and materials filed by us with the SEC.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. As a property and casualty insurer, we may experience significant losses, and our financial results may vary from period to period, due to our exposure to catastrophic events and severe weather conditions, the incidence and severity of which could be affected by climate change.. Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to risks arising from catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including but not limited to hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, sinkholes, severe winter weather and fires, or man-made events, such as terrorist attacks (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events), cybercrimes or consequences of war or political instability. We may incur catastrophe losses that exceed the amount of:. •catastrophe losses that we experienced in prior years;. •catastrophe losses that, using third-party catastrophe modeling software, we projected could be incurred;. •catastrophe loss estimates that we used to develop prices for our products; or. •our current reinsurance coverage (which would cause us to have to pay such excess losses).. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are inherently unpredictable, but the frequency and severity of property claims generally increase when severe weather conditions occur. Climate change, to the extent that it may affect weather patterns, may cause an increase in the frequency and/or the severity of catastrophic events or severe weather conditions which, in addition to the attendant increase in claims-related costs, may also cause an increase in our reinsurance costs and/or negatively impact our ability to provide insurance to our policyholders in the future.  Governmental entities may also respond to climate change by enacting laws and regulations that may increase our cost of providing insurance in the future, which could adversely affect demand.. Catastrophes could be more frequent or severe than contemplated in our pricing and risk management models, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations during any reporting period due to increases in our loss and loss adjustment expense. Catastrophes may also reduce liquidity and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all.  In addition to catastrophes, the accumulation of losses from several smaller weather-related events in any reporting period may have a similar impact to our results of operations and financial condition.. Because we conduct a significant portion of our business in Florida, our financial results substantially depend on the regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive and weather conditions present in that state.. A significant portion of our policies in-force is concentrated in Florida. Therefore, the prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in Florida will likely have a more significant impact on our revenues and profitability compared to such conditions in other jurisdictions in which we operate.  Furthermore, changes in conditions in Florida could make doing business in Florida less attractive for us, which could have a more pronounced effect on us than it would on other insurance companies that are more geographically diversified.. In addition, due to Florida's climate, we are subject to increased exposure to certain catastrophic events such as hurricanes, tropical storms and tornadoes, as well as an increased risk of losses.  The occurrence of one or more catastrophic events or other conditions affecting losses in Florida may cause a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 14. UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP.. Our diversification strategy may not be effective, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Although we intend to continue focusing on Florida as a key market for our insurance products, we plan to take advantage of prudent opportunities to expand our core business into other states where we believe the potential for underwriting profit exists.  However, we may not be successful in this diversification strategy due to several factors, including but not limited to the difficulties of finding appropriate expansion opportunities and the challenges of operating in new and unfamiliar markets. Such factors may increase our costs and potentially affect the speed with which we are able to pursue new diversification opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in expanding into a state or a combination of states. Failure to manage these risks successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Because we rely on insurance agents, the loss of these agent relationships, particularly our relationship with AmRisc, LLC (\"AmRisc\"), or our ability to attract new agents could have an adverse impact on our business.. We market our policies to a broad range of prospective policyholders through approximately 12,000 independent agents representing over 7,500 agencies as of December 31, 2017. Many of these agents are independent insurance agents that own their customer relationships, and our agency contracts with them limit our ability to directly solicit business from our existing policyholders. Independent agents commonly represent other insurance companies, including our competitors, and we do not control their activities. As a result, we must compete with other insurers for independent agents' business. Historically, we have used marketing relationships with national insurance companies and associations of independent insurance agents to attract and retain agents and agency groups. The loss of these marketing relationships could adversely impact our ability to attract new agents or retain our agency network and policies in force. Failure to grow or maintain our agency relationships, a failure to attract new agents or the failure of agents to act as anticipated could adversely affect sales of our insurance products.. Additionally, ACIC, has an exclusive managing agency contract (the MGA contract) with AmRisc, pursuant to which AmRisc serves as ACIC's exclusive managing general agent for binding and writing commercial residential property lines for condominium, townhome and homeowners association insurance written in Florida in accordance with ACIC's underwriting guidelines.  Under the MGA contract, AmRisc must produce a certain volume of business for ACIC.  Therefore, failure of AmRisc to produce the required volume of business could cause us to lose substantial premiums and could require us to seek one or more alternative managing general agents. If we were unable to find a replacement managing general agent (because of AmRisc's failure to produce the required volume of business or otherwise) or otherwise increase the production of premiums, our revenues could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Given the concentration of ACIC's business and operations with AmRisc,  AmRisc may have substantial leverage in negotiations with ACIC regarding the MGA contract, and amendments to the terms and conditions of the MGA contract and other changes to the commercial relationship between ACIC and AmRisc could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Following the termination or expiration of the MGA contract (set to occur in 2022), ACIC's ability to compete for and solicit renewals of business previously underwritten by AmRisc on its behalf may be limited by legal, commercial and other impediments, including AmRisc's relationship with other insurance producers that control the business. Such impediments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations due to the concentration of ACIC's business with AmRisc.. Actual claims incurred may exceed our loss reserves for claims, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Loss reserves represent our estimate of ultimate unpaid losses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported.  Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent our best estimate, generally utilizing actuarial expertise, historical information and projection techniques at a given reporting date.. The process of estimating our loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables.  These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends, legislative changes, and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. In addition, application of statistical and actuarial methods in estimating our loss reserves may require the adjustment of overall reserves upward or downward from time to time. Future loss experience, substantially in excess of our loss reserves, could substantially harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Because of the inherent uncertainty in estimating loss reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed our existing loss reserves. If our reserves are inadequate, it may cause us to overstate our earnings for the periods during which our reserves for expected losses was insufficient.. 15. UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP.. Our financial results may vary from period to period based on the timing of our collection of government-levied assessments from our policyholders.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to assessments levied by various governmental and quasi-governmental entities in the states in which we operate. While we may have the ability to recover these assessments from policyholders through policy surcharges in some states in which we operate, our payment of the assessments and our recoveries may not offset each other in the same reporting period in our financial statements and may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular reporting period.. Our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price.. \"Internal controls over financial reporting\" refer to those procedures within a company that are designed to reasonably ensure the accuracy of the company's financial statements. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to annually assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.. If we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls, or if we have material weaknesses in our internal controls, in each case in accordance with applicable standards, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Because effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price for our stock could decline if our internal controls are ineffective or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified.. If we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. While technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present certain risks. Our business is highly dependent upon our information technology systems and upon our contractors' and third-party administrators' ability to perform necessary business functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, such as the processing of policies and the adjusting of claims. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and often depend on these third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions.. Despite our implementation of security measures, our information technology systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks, system failures and similar disruptions. A material breach in the security of our information technology systems and data could include the theft of our confidential or proprietary information, including trade secrets and the personal information of our customers, claimants and employees. From time to time, we have experienced threats to our data and information technology systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. To the extent that any disruptions or security breaches result in a loss or damage to our data or inappropriate disclosure of proprietary or confidential information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, adversely affect our relationships with our customers, result in litigation, increased costs and/or regulatory penalties, and ultimately harm our business. Third parties to whom we outsource certain of our functions are also subject to the risks outlined above, any one of which may result in our incurring substantial costs and other negative consequences, including a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Loss of key vendor relationships or failure of a vendor to protect personal information of our customers, claimants or employees could affect our operations.. We rely on services and products provided by many third-party vendors.  These include, for example, vendors of computer hardware and software and vendors of services such as claim adjustment services and human resource benefits management services. In the event that one or more of our vendors suffers a bankruptcy or otherwise becomes unable to continue to provide products or services, or fails to protect personal information of our customers, claimants or employees, we may suffer operational impairments and financial losses. Moreover, in the event of a data breach involving any of our third-party vendors, our customers' data and personal information could also be put at risk. Any such data breach involving our third-party vendors. 16. UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP.. could result in significant mitigation or legal expenses for us, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our success has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by our ability to attract and retain the services of senior management, the loss of any of whom could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects.. Our senior executive officers play an integral role in the development and management of our business.  We cannot guarantee that any such officers will continue their employment with us. Additionally, we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees.  The loss of the services of any of our senior executive officers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects.. Our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not be as successful as we anticipate, and could be difficult to integrate, divert management resources, result in unanticipated costs or dilute our existing stockholders.. Part of our continuing business strategy is to evaluate opportunities to merge with and acquire companies that complement our business model or make other strategic transactions that facilitate or expedite the accomplishment of our business goals. We may be unable to identify suitable counterparties to such a transaction. Even if we enter into an agreement in respect of a merger with or acquisition of another business, we may not be able to finalize a transaction after significant investment of time and resources due to, among other things, a lack of regulatory approval or imposition of a burdensome condition by the regulator.. In connection with an acquisition or merger, we could incur debt, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, large and immediate write-offs, assume liabilities or issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage of ownership. As a result, there is a risk of transaction related litigation. Such strategic transactions could pose numerous risks to our operations, including risks relating to:. • incurring substantial unanticipated integration costs;. • diverting significant management attention and financial resources from our other operations and disrupting our ongoing business during the assimilations of such acquired businesses;. • losing key employees, particularly those of the acquired operations;. • retaining the acquired business' customers;. • failing to realize the strategic benefits or the potential cost savings or other financial benefits of the acquisitions or mergers; and. • incurring unanticipated liabilities or claims from the acquired businesses and contractually-based time and monetary limitations on the seller's obligation to indemnify us for such liabilities or claims.. We are also subject to a certain level of risk regarding the actual condition of the businesses that we acquire. Until we actually assume operating control of such businesses and their assets and operations, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired entities and their operations. As a result, we may not be able to complete acquisitions or mergers or integrate the operations, products or personnel gained through any such acquisition or merger without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. RISKS RELATED TO THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY. Because we are operating in a highly competitive market, we may lack the resources to increase or maintain our market share, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future.  The principal competitive factors in our industry are price, service, coverage options, underwriting guidelines, commission structure and financial condition.  We compete with other property and casualty insurers that underwrite property and casualty insurance in the same geographic areas in which we operate and some of those insurers have greater financial resources and have a longer operating history than we do.  In addition, our competitors may offer products for alternative forms of risk protection that we presently do not offer or are not similarly regulated in the admitted market, which could adversely affect the sales of our products.  We also compete with new companies that continue to enter the insurance market. Competition could limit our ability to retain existing business or to write new business at adequate rates, and such limitation may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. 17. UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP.. Changes in state regulation may adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition.. As a holding company with operating insurance company subsidiaries, we are subject to the laws and regulations of the various states in which our insurance subsidiaries operate. From time to time, states pass legislation, and regulators take action, that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas, or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets.  In addition, legislative initiatives and court decisions can seek to expand insurance coverage for insured losses beyond the original intent of the policies, which could cause our actual loss and loss adjustment expense to exceed our estimates.  Further, our ability to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising loss or operating costs requires approval of insurance regulatory authorities.. Our ability or willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and our ability to penetrate other geographic markets through our diversification strategy, which may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  We cannot predict whether and to what extent the adoption of new legislation and regulations would affect our ability to manage our exposure to catastrophic events.. The insurance industry is heavily regulated and further restrictive regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth.. The insurance industry is extensively regulated and supervised. Insurance regulatory authorities generally design insurance rules and regulations to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their stockholders, and other investors. We are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by state insurance departments in all states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, as well as all states in which they are licensed, sell insurance products, issue policies, or handle claims. The regulations of each state are unique and complex and subject to change, and certain states may have regulations that conflict with the regulations of other states in which we operate.  As a result, we are subject to the risk that compliance with the regulations in one state may not result in compliance with the regulations in another state.. State statutes and administrative rules generally require each insurance company to register with the department of insurance in its state of domicile and to furnish information concerning the operations of the companies within the holding company system and the failure to comply with such requirements may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers. As part of its registration, each insurance company must identify material agreements, relationships and transactions with affiliates, including loans, investments, asset transfers, transactions outside of the ordinary course of business, certain management, service, and cost sharing agreements, reinsurance transactions, dividends, and other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business. Some states impose restrictions or require prior regulatory approval of specific corporate actions, which may adversely affect our ability to operate, innovate, obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner or grow our business profitably. Our ability to comply with these laws and regulations, and to obtain necessary regulatory action in a timely manner is, and will continue to be, critical to our success.. Currently, the federal government's role in regulating or dictating the policies of insurance companies is limited. However, from time to time Congress has considered and may in the future consider proposals that would increase the role of the federal government in insurance regulation, either in addition to or in lieu of state regulation.. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. Changes in federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation and federal taxation, could negatively affect the insurance industry and us. In addition, Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal or national regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to the option available to most banks. Further, the NAIC and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. We cannot predict what effect, if any, proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the manner in which we conduct our business.. As part of potential, or future, industry-wide investigations, we may from time to time receive requests for information from government agencies and authorities at the state or federal level. If we are subpoenaed for information by government agencies and authorities, potential outcomes could include law enforcement proceedings or settlements resulting in fines, penalties and/or changes in business practices that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, these investigations may result in changes to laws and regulations affecting the industry.. 18. UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP.. Changes to insurance laws or regulations, or new insurance laws and regulations, may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and could significantly increase our compliance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our prospects for future growth. Additionally, our failure to comply with certain provisions of applicable insurance laws and regulations could result in significant fines or penalties being levied against us and may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Our inability to obtain reinsurance on acceptable terms would increase our loss exposure or limit our ability to underwrite policies, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We use, and we expect to continue to use, reinsurance to help manage our exposure to property risks.  Reinsurance is insurance for insurers and is fundamentally a promise by the reinsurer to pay possible future claims in exchange for the payment of a premium by the insurance company seeking reinsurance. The availability and cost of reinsurance are each subject to prevailing market conditions beyond our control, which can affect business volume and profitability.  We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance coverage, to obtain additional reinsurance coverage in the event our current reinsurance coverage is exhausted by a catastrophic event, or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts or at acceptable rates.  Similar risks exist whether we are seeking to replace coverage terminated during the applicable coverage period or to renew or replace coverage upon its expiration. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. For example, reinsurance may be more difficult or costly to obtain after a year with a large number of major catastrophes.  We provide no assurance that we can obtain sufficient reinsurance to cover losses resulting from one or more storms or other events in the future, or that we can obtain such reinsurance in a timely or cost-effective manner.  If we are unable to renew our expiring coverage or to obtain new reinsurance coverage, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to accept an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite.  Either increasing our net exposure to risk or reducing the amount of risk we underwrite may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition.. Our inability to collect from our reinsurers on our reinsurance claims could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition.. We use reinsurance as a tool to manage risks associated with our business. However, we remain primarily liable as the direct insurer on all risks that we obtain reinsurance for. Our reinsurance agreements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims to insureds.  As a result, we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers.  The risk could arise in two situations: (i) our reinsurers may dispute some of our reinsurance claims based on contract terms, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment, or (ii) the amount of losses that reinsurers incur related to worldwide catastrophes may materially harm the financial condition of our reinsurers and cause them to default on their obligations. Collectability of reinsurance is subject to the solvency of the reinsurers, interpretation of contract language and other factors. A reinsurer's insolvency or inability to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance contract could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our efforts to manage these risks through underwriting guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms may not be successful.  As a result, our exposure to counterparty risk under our reinsurance agreements may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Our investments are subject to market risks that may result in reduced returns or losses.. We invest a portion of the premiums we collect in various securities and expect returns from our investments in these securities to contribute to our overall profitability.  Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates or in the fixed maturity, equity or alternative-investment markets may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Changes in the general interest rate environment will affect our returns on, and the fair value of, our fixed maturity and short-term investments.  A decline in interest rates reduces the interest rate payable on new fixed income investments, thereby negatively impacting our net investment income.  Conversely, rising interest rates reduce the fair value of existing fixed maturities.  In addition, defaults under, or impairments of, any of these investments as a result of financial problems with the issuer and, where applicable, its guarantor could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses.. We are subject to risks associated with potential declines in credit quality related to specific issuers and a general weakening in the economy. We may experience credit or default losses in our portfolio, including as a result of the failure of the procedures we have implemented to monitor the credit risk of our invested assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 19. UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP.. We may decide to invest an additional portion of our assets in equity securities or other investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed maturity investments.  General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the fair value of our equity securities or other investments, and could adversely affect our realization of net investment income.  As a result of these factors, we may not realize an adequate return on our investments, we may incur losses on sales of our investments and we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses.. The fair value of our investment portfolio is also subject to valuation uncertainties.  The valuation of investments is more subjective when the markets for these investments are illiquid and may increase the risk that the estimated fair value of our investment portfolio is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur.. Our determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairment to record varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective investment type.  We revise our evaluations and assessments as conditions change and new information becomes available, and we reflect changes in other-than-temporary impairments in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.  We base our assessment of whether other-than-temporary impairments have occurred on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value.  However, we may not accurately assess whether the impairment of one or more of our investments is temporary or other-than-temporary and the recorded amounts for other-than-temporary impairments in our financial statements may be inadequate.  Furthermore, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments and additional impairments may need to be recorded in the future.. Federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages we currently benefit from, including those governing received deductions and tax credits, which could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio.. The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry is historically cyclical and the pricing and terms for our products may decline, which would adversely affect our profitability.. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry has been cyclical, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity, or \"soft\" markets, followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity, or \"hard\" markets.  We cannot predict when such a period may occur or how long any given hard or soft market will last. Downturns in the property and casualty market may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition.. Losses from legal actions may be material to our operating results, cash flows and financial condition.. Trends in the insurance industry regarding claims and coverage issues, such as increased litigation, the willingness of courts to expand covered causes of loss, and the escalation of loss severity may contribute to increased litigation costs and increase our loss exposure under the policies that we underwrite.. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge.  Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to:. • judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability;. • plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class-action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; and. • adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures in home repair costs.. Loss severity in the property and casualty insurance industry may increase and may be driven by the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claims and coverage issues. Multiparty or class action claims may present additional exposure to substantial economic, non-economic or punitive damage awards.  The loss of even one of these claims, if it resulted in a significant award or a judicial ruling that was otherwise detrimental, could create a precedent in our industry that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  This risk of potential liability may make reasonable settlements of claims more difficult to obtain.. We may be named a defendant in a number of legal actions relating to those emerging claim and coverage issues. The propensity of policyholders and third-party claimants to litigate and the willingness of courts to expand causes of loss and the. 20. UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP.. size of awards may result in increased costs associated with litigation, render our loss reserves inadequate, and may be material to our operating results and cash flows for a particular quarter or annual period and to our financial condition.  In addition, claims and coverage issues may not become apparent to us for some time after our issuance of the affected insurance policies. As a result, we may not know the full extent of liability under insurance policies we issue for many years after the policies are issued.. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volume and our ability to access additional debt or equity financing.. Financial strength ratings have become increasingly important to an insurer's competitive position.  Ratings measure an insurance company's ability to meet its obligation to contract holders and policyholders. High ratings help maintain public confidence in a company's products, facilitate marketing of products and enhance its competitive position. Rating agencies review their ratings periodically, and our current ratings may not be maintained in the future.  A downgrade in our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes, as it is possible demand for our products in certain markets may be reduced or our ratings could fall below minimum levels required to maintain existing business.  Additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs.  If significant losses, such as those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade.  For example, a trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements.. We cannot guarantee that our insurance affiliates, UPC, FSIC, IIC and ACIC will maintain their current A (Exceptional) or higher ratings by Demotech and A- ratings by Kroll.  Any downgrade of these ratings could impact the acceptability of our products to mortgage lenders that require homeowners to buy insurance, reduce our ability to retain and attract policyholders and agents and damage our ability to compete, which may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by us or our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decrease.. As of December 31, 2017, we have registered up to $100,000,000 of our securities (including our common stock) for sale from time to time in one or more offerings.  Additional equity financings or other share issuances by us could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, we issued shares representing approximately 49% of the issued and outstanding common stock of the combined company as consideration in the merger with AmCo, resulting in substantial dilution to our then-existing shareholders. Future share issuances in connection with merger transactions or other acquisitions could result in substantial additional dilution to our shareholders.. Dividend payments on our common stock in the future are uncertain, and our ability to pay dividends may be constrained by our holding company structure.. We have paid dividends on our common stock in the past. However, the declaration and payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our profits, financial requirements and other factors, including legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends from our subsidiaries (as we are a holding company and do not have any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our operating subsidiaries), general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Therefore, investors who purchase our common stock may only realize a return on their investment if the value of our common stock appreciates.. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends may affect our liquidity and ability to meet our obligations.. The Company is a holding company with no significant operations. The principal assets are the stock of its subsidiaries and the holding company's directly held investment portfolio. State insurance regulatory authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, as described in Note 14 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The limitations are based on statutory income and surplus. In addition, competitive pressures generally require the subsidiaries to maintain insurance financial strength ratings. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements affect the ability of the subsidiaries to make dividend payments. Limits on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect holding company liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and service our debt in the timeframe expected.. 21. UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP.. Management views enterprise economic capital as a combination of statutory surplus and invested assets at the parent holding company level. Deterioration in statutory surplus or earnings, from developments such as catastrophe losses, or changes in market conditions or interest rates, could adversely affect holding company liquidity by impacting the amount of dividends from our subsidiaries or the utilization of invested assets at the holding company to increase statutory surplus or for other corporate purposes.. The substantial ownership of our common stock by R. Daniel Peed and his affiliates allows him to exert significant control over us, and the Company and R. Daniel Peed are subject to certain restrictive covenants that may restrict our ability to pursue certain opportunities.. R. Daniel Peed beneficially owns approximately 32% of our issued and outstanding common stock at December 31, 2017. Mr. Peed also has a proxy from another member of RDX Holding, LLC (RDX), the former parent company of AmCo, who beneficially owns approximately 8% of our issued and outstanding common stock.  As a result, Mr. Peed is able to exert substantial control over us. Moreover, Mr. Peed's interests may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock and he may take actions affecting us with which other stockholders may disagree. Mr. Peed has the ability to exert significant influence over the following:. • the nomination, election and removal of our Board of Directors;. • the adoption of amendments to our charter documents;. • management and policies; and. • the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets.. Mr. Peed, AmCo and ACIC are also subject to restrictive covenant agreements that contain non-competition, non-solicitation, confidentiality and other restrictive covenants that prohibit Mr. Peed, AmCo and ACIC from engaging in certain activities, including activities customarily performed by managing general agents and activities relating to segments of the commercial property insurance market for coastally exposed risks in the United States. Additionally, in connection with our merger with AmCo, we agreed to be subject to a restrictive covenant expiring on June 1, 2022 that will prohibit the formation, investment in or development, acquisition or ownership of any managing general agent or entity that performs activities customarily performed by managing general agents, or the engagement in customary managing general agent functions with respect to the commercial property insurance business. These restrictive covenants may restrict us and Mr. Peed from pursuing opportunities for expansion, including opportunities to act as or perform functions similar to a managing general agent, and therefore may limit our overall growth potential.. Further, we entered into a stockholder's agreement with Mr. Peed and certain affiliates of Mr. Peed, which provides those stockholders with rights that our other stockholders do not have, including, subject to certain conditions, the right to designate for nomination or appointment up to three of the current 10 members of our Board of Directors. Although the stockholder's agreement requires shares beneficially owned by Mr. Peed and his affiliates to be voted in proportion to the votes cast by other stockholders on any proposal on which our stockholders are entitled to vote, this restriction will terminate on the earlier of (i) April 3, 2022 and (ii) the date that Mr. Peed and his affiliates beneficially own less than 25% of our voting securities.. Provisions in our charter documents may make it harder for others to obtain control of us even though some stockholders might consider such a development to be favorable.. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals our stockholders may consider to be in their best interests.  Our Board of Directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year.  At a given annual meeting, only a portion of our Board of Directors may be considered for election.  Since our \"staggered board\" may prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our Board of Directors at certain annual meetings, it may entrench our management and discourage unsolicited. stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of our stockholders.. Further, our Board of Directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue one or more series of preferred stock, which may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities."
