[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. You should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in shares of our common stock. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below.. We are subject to lending risk and could incur losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices.. United Bank originates commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within its market area. Commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have a greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons:. • Commercial Business Loans: Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's business.. • Commercial Real Estate Loans: Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service.. • Consumer Loans: Consumer loans are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage or loss.. While relatively stable, an economic slowdown, at the local and national level, is possible which could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from borrowers' businesses, thereby increasing the risk of potential increases in non-performing loans. The decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our commercial and residential real estate loans. A stagnation in the economy coupled with a slow economic recovery may also have a negative effect on the ability of our commercial borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which could have an adverse impact on our earnings. If poor economic conditions were prolonged, it could result in decreased opportunities to make quality. 26. loans and our profits may decrease because our alternative investment opportunities may earn less income. The resultant market uncertainty may lead to a widespread reduction in general business activity. The resulting economic pressure brought to bear on consumers may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See further discussion on the commercial loan portfolio in \"Lending Activities\" within \"Item 7 -Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. If United Bank's allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loss and delinquency experience on different loan categories, and we evaluate existing economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance, which would decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 0.88% of total loans outstanding and 148.76% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2017. Although we are unaware of any specific problems with our loan portfolio that would require any increase in our allowance at the present time, it may need to be increased further in the future, due to our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of commercial business and commercial real estate loans. Our allowance for loan losses to total covered loans was 1.03% at December 31, 2017.. In addition, banking regulators and other outside third parties, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on a myriad of factors and assumptions. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. A new accounting standard may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, which will be effective for the Company for the first quarter of the fiscal year ending December 31, 2020. This standard, often referred to as \"CECL\" (reflecting a current expected credit loss model), will require companies to recognize an allowance for credit losses based on estimates of losses expected to be realized over the contractual lives of the loans. Under current U.S. GAAP, companies generally recognize credit losses only when it is probable that a loss has been incurred as of the balance sheet date. This new standard will require us to collect and review increased types and amounts of data for us to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses, and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting this standard on our consolidated financial statements, which is expected to increase loan loss reserves, the amount of which is uncertain at this time.. Concentration of loans in our primary market area may increase risk. Our success is impacted by the general economic conditions in the geographic areas in which we operate, primarily Connecticut and Central and Western Massachusetts. Accordingly, the economic conditions in these markets have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in these markets would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond our control could reduce our ability to generate new loans and increase default rates on those loans and otherwise negatively affect our financial results.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition could be significantly affected by changes in the level of interest rates and the steepness of the yield curve. Our financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense we pay on interest-bearing liabilities. While we have modeled rising interest rate scenarios using historic data and such scenarios result in an increase in our net interest income, our interest-bearing liabilities may reprice or mature more quickly than modeled, thus resulting in a decrease in our net interest income. Further, a flatter yield curve than we modeled would also result in a decline in net interest income.. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our investment securities. Generally, the value of our investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Decreases in the fair value of. 27. our investment securities, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity or our earnings if the decrease in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary.. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of our loans and mortgage related securities. Decreases in interest rates may cause an increase in prepayments of our loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. As prepayment speeds on mortgage related securities increase, the premium amortization increases prospectively, and additionally there would be an adjustment required under the application of the interest method of income recognition, and will therefore result in lower net interest income. Under these circumstances, we are also subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on our existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans.. Continued or further declines in the value of certain investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce our earnings.. The gross unrealized losses within our investment securities portfolio are due in part to an increase in credit spreads. We have concluded these unrealized losses are temporary in nature since they are not related to the underlying credit quality of the issuers or underlying assets, and we have the intent and ability to hold these investments for a time necessary to recover our cost at stated maturity (at which time, full payment is expected). However, a continued decline in the value of these securities due to deterioration in the underlying credit quality of the issuers or underlying assets or other factors could result in an other-than-temporary impairment write-down which would reduce our earnings.. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile.. The level of interest and trading in the Company's stock depends on many factors beyond our control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in operating results; changes in interest rates; changes in the legal or regulatory environment; press releases, announcements or publicity relating to the Company or its competitors or relating to trends in its industry; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; future sales of our common stock; changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent stockholders from selling their common stock at a desirable price.. In the past, stockholders have brought securities class action litigation against other companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. If we experience such volatility we could be the target of similar litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources.. Our success depends on our key personnel, including our executive officers, and the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business.. Our success depends on our ability to recruit and retain highly-skilled personnel. Competition for the very best people from our industry makes the hiring decision process complicated. Our ability to find seasoned individuals with specialized skill sets that match our needs, could prove difficult. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Company's key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the business because we would lose the employee's skills, knowledge of the market and years of industry experience and may have difficulty finding qualified replacement personnel.. United has opened new branches and may open additional new branches and loan production offices which may incur losses during their initial years of operation as they generate new deposit and loan portfolios.. The Company did not open any new branches in 2017 or 2016. However, United intends to continue to explore opportunities to expand and eliminate non-strategic branches to better posture the Company to achieve greater operational efficiencies going forward. Losses are expected in connection with establishing new branches for some time, as the expenses associated with them are largely fixed and are typically greater than the income earned at the outset as the branches build up their customer bases.. Strong competition within United's market area may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense and increasing. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our. 28. profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets.. The Company continues to encounter technological change. Failure to understand and keep current on technological change could adversely affect our business.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company provides product and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company's operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are exposed to fraud in many aspects of the services and products that we provide.. We offer debit cards and credit cards to our banking customers and expanded our online banking and online account opening capabilities in 2017.  Historically, we have experienced operational losses from fraud committed by third parties that obtain credentials from our customers or merchants utilized by our customers.  We have little ability to manage how merchants or our banking customers protect the credentials that our customers have to transact with us.  When customers and merchants do not adequately protect customer account credentials, our risks and potential costs increase.  As (a) our sales of these services and products expand, (b) those who are committing fraud become more sophisticated and more determined, and (c) our banking services and product offerings expand, our operational losses could increase.. We believe we have underwriting and operational controls in place to prevent or detect such fraud, but we cannot provide assurance that these controls will be effective in detecting fraud or that we will not experience fraud losses or incur costs or other damage related to such fraud, at levels that adversely affect our financial results or reputation. Our lending customers may also experience fraud in their businesses which could adversely affect their ability to repay their loans or make use of our services. Our exposure and the exposure of our customers to fraud may increase our financial risk and reputation risk as it may result in unexpected loan losses that exceed those that have been provided for in our allowance for loan losses.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure or interruption of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure or interruption will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. A breach in security of our systems, including a breach resulting from our newer online capabilities such as mobile banking, increases the potential for fraud losses. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.. We rely on third-party relationships to conduct our business, which subjects us to strategic, reputation, compliance and transaction (operational) risk.. We rely on third party service providers to leverage subject matter expertise and industry best practice, provide enhanced products and services, and reduce costs. Although there are benefits in entering into third party relationships with vendors, there are risks associated with such activities. When entering a third party relationship, the risks associated with that activity are not passed to the third party but remain our responsibility. Management and the Board of Directors are ultimately responsible for the activities conducted by vendors. To that end, Management is accountable for the review and evaluation of all new and existing vendor relationships. Management is responsible for ensuring that adequate controls are in place at United and our vendors to protect the Company and its customers from the risks associated with vendor relationships.. 29. Increased risk most often arises from poor planning, oversight and control on the part of the Company and inferior performance or service on the part of the third party, and may result in legal costs or loss of business. While we have implemented a vendor management program to actively manage the risks associated with the use of third party service providers, any problems caused by third party service providers could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and to conduct our business. Replacing third party vendors could also take a long period of time and result in increased expenses.. United faces cybersecurity risks, including \"denial of service attacks,\" \"hacking\" and \"identity theft\" that could result in the disclosure of confidential information, adversely affect United's business or reputation and create significant legal and financial exposure.. United's computer systems and network infrastructure are subject to security risks and could be susceptible to cyber-attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking, terrorist activities or identity theft. Financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. Denial of service attacks have been launched against a number of large financial services institutions. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause serious reputational harm. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and United may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. United may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks and could be held liable for any security breach or loss. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened and as a result the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. As an additional layer of protection, we have purchased network and privacy liability risk insurance coverage which includes digital asset loss, business interruption loss, network security liability, privacy liability, network extortion and data breach coverage.. Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of its systems, United will not be able to anticipate all security breaches of these types, and United may not be able to implement effective preventive measures against such security breaches on a timely basis. The techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including outside groups such as external service providers, organized crime affiliates, terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of United's systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to its data or that of its clients. These risks may increase in the future as the Company continues to increase its mobile-payment and other internet-based product offerings and expands its internal usage of web-based products and applications.. A successful penetration or circumvention of system security could cause serious negative consequences to United, including significant disruption of operations, misappropriation of confidential information of United or that of its customers, or damage to computers or systems of the Company or those of its customers and counterparties. A security breach could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to United or to its customers, loss of confidence in United's security measures, significant litigation exposure, and harm to United's reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. United engages third party vendors to assess our readiness, and the results are reported to management and the Board Risk Committee.. Mortgage banking income may experience significant volatility.. Mortgage banking income is highly influenced by the level and direction of mortgage interest rates which may influence secondary market spreads, and real estate and refinancing activity. In lower interest rate environments, the demand for mortgage loans and refinancing activity will tend to increase. This has the effect of increasing fee income, but could adversely impact the estimated fair value of our mortgage servicing rights as the rate of loan prepayments increase. In higher interest rate environments, the demand for refinancing activity will generally be lower, and our inability to capture purchase mortgage market share may have the effect of decreasing fee income.. If the goodwill that the Company has recorded in connection with its mergers and acquisitions becomes impaired, it will have a negative impact on the Company's profitability.. Applicable accounting standards require that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations. Under acquisition accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company's net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer's balance sheet as goodwill. At December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $115.3 million of goodwill on its balance sheet primarily reflecting the merger with Legacy United. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment occurs. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not. 30. result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on United's financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to make opportunistic acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the risk that regulators will not provide the requisite approvals.. We may make opportunistic whole or partial acquisitions of other banks, branches, financial institutions or related businesses from time to time that we expect may further our business strategy, including through participation in FDIC-assisted acquisitions or assumption of deposits from troubled institutions. Any possible acquisition will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approval in a timely manner or at all. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, these acquisitions could involve numerous risks, including lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs, difficulties related to integration, difficulties and costs associated with consolidation and streamlining inefficiencies, diversion of management's attention from other business activities, changes in relationships with customers and the potential loss of key employees. In addition, we may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions, or preventing deposit erosion or loan quality deterioration at acquired institutions. Competition for acquisitions can be highly competitive, and we may not be able to acquire other institutions on attractive terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing or will even pursue future acquisitions, or if such transactions are completed, that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses into operations. Our ability to grow may be limited if we choose not to pursue or are unable to successfully make acquisitions in the future.. A large portion of our loan portfolio is acquired and was not underwritten by us at origination.. At December 31, 2017, 21.7% of our loan portfolio was acquired and was not underwritten by us at origination, and therefore is not necessarily reflective of our historical credit risk experience. We performed extensive credit due diligence prior to each acquisition and marked the loans to fair value upon acquisition, with such fair valuation considering expected credit losses that existed at the time of acquisition. Additionally, we evaluate the expected cash flows of these loans on a quarterly basis. However, there is a risk that credit losses could be larger than currently anticipated, thus adversely affecting our earnings.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. In addition, such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property.. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.. United may, from time to time, implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are risks and uncertainties associated with new lines of business or new products particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. We may need to invest significant time and resources in developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services.  New lines of business and/or new products or services may not be implemented according to our initial schedule and price and profitability targets may not prove attainable.  Other factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the implementation of new lines of business or development of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 31. The full impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") on us and our customers is unknown at present, creating uncertainty and risk related to our customers' future demand for credit and our future results.. Increased investment and productivity activity expected to result from the decrease in tax rates on businesses generally could spur additional economic activity that would encourage additional borrowing. At the same time, some customers may elect to use their additional cash flow from lower taxes to fund their existing levels of activity, decreasing borrowing needs. The limitation of the federal income tax deductibility of business interest expense for a significant number of our customers effectively increases the cost of borrowing and makes other funding relatively more attractive. This could have a long-term negative impact on business customer borrowing. We are anticipating an increase in our after-tax net income available to stockholders in 2018 and future years as a result of the decrease in our effective tax rate. Some or all of this benefit could be lost to the extent that the banks and financial services companies we compete with elect to lower interest rates and fees and we are forced to respond in order to remain competitive. There is no assurance that presently anticipated benefits of the Tax Act for the Company will be realized.. U.S. tax reform that was enacted into legislation in December 2017 impacted the value of our deferred tax assets. Future tax reform could adversely affect us.. Among its many provisions, the enactment of the Tax Act that was signed into law on December 22, 2017 resulted in a reduction of the U.S. Federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%.  This reduction combined with other provisions of the new law resulted in the Company decreasing the value of its deferred tax assets by $1.4 million.  Further U.S. tax proposals could materially adversely affect us. We cannot predict if any such proposals will ultimately become law, or, if enacted, what its provisions or that of the regulations promulgated thereunder will be, but they could materially adversely affect our financial position and our results of operations.. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, natural disasters or a combination of these or other factors.. There can be no assurance that national market and economic conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of our loans, our results of operations and our financial condition.. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, which may interfere with our ability to conduct our business and may negatively impact our financial results.. The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are intended to protect depositors' funds, the DIF and the safety and soundness of the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and/or limit the pricing we may charge on certain banking services, among other things. Additionally, recent changes to the legal and regulatory framework governing our operation, including the continued implementation of Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III will continue to affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. There are many additional regulations called for by the Dodd- Frank Act that have not been proposed, or if proposed, have not been adopted. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business strategies is not completely known at this time as there is uncertainty related to regulations still pending. The 2016 national election results and more recent statements and actions by the administration and members of Congress have contributed to continuing uncertainty regarding future implementation and enforcement of the Dodd-Frank Act and other financial sector regulatory requirements. While these developments have contributed to increased market valuations of a broad range of financial services companies, including the Company, there is no assurance that any of the anticipated changes will be implemented or that expected benefits to our future financial performance will be realized. Since the global financial crisis, financial institutions generally have been subject to increased scrutiny from regulatory authorities. In general, bank regulatory agencies have increased their focus on risk management and customer compliance, and we expect this focus to continue.  Additional compliance requirements are likely and can be costly to implement.  Compliance personnel and resources may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings.. 32. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Item 1 of this report for further information."
