[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Like all financial companies, United Community's business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business and future results of operations.. United Community and the Bank have an enterprise risk management program. The Board Risk Management Committee provides oversight of the program. The Board also adopted the Corporate Risk Management and Control Policy. The policy provides a framework for risk identification, monitoring and mitigation through a risk assessment process, including reviewing of policies and procedures to enhance the controls and risk management practices at United Community and the Bank. The Officers Risk Management Committee leads this process as part of an ongoing program.. 21. Economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. A reduction in the availability of credit, the lack of confidence in the financial sector, a decrease in consumer confidence, an increase in volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic turmoil in Europe and Asia and changes in oil production in the Middle East affect the economy and stock prices in the United States, which can affect United Community's earnings and capital and the ability of its customers to repay loans.  As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, the Company may face the following risks in connection with these events:. •  Inability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. •  Increased regulation of the financial services industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations. Compliance with such regulation will likely increase costs and may limit the Company's ability to pursue business opportunities.. •  Disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions.. •  Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions, which may adversely affect the Company's ability to market competitive products and services.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, the money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk.. Increases in interest rates can affect the value of available for sale securities, loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of these assets. We originate loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently the fee income we earn on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized.. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, we may need to write down our servicing assets faster, which would accelerate our expense and lower our earnings.. Increases in credit risks could adversely affect our results of operations.. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing loans will decrease. We attempt to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. However, conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply, declines in real estate value and other factors beyond our control may increase our credit risk. Such changes in the economy may have a negative impact on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of our collateral. In addition, substantial portions of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently, any decline in the state's economy could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that Home Savings will be unable to collect both the contractual interest payments and the contractual principal payments, as scheduled in the loan agreement. Construction loans generally involve greater underwriting and default risks than loans secured by mortgages on existing properties because construction loans are more difficult to appraise and to monitor. In the event a default on a construction loan occurs and foreclosure follows, we may need to take control of the project and attempt either to arrange for completion of construction or dispose of the unfinished project.. 22. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from savings and loan associations, banks, credit unions, mortgage-banking firms, securities brokerage firms, asset management firms and insurance companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. In order to compete, Home Savings may need to lower interest rates on its products to match interest rates offered by its competition, which could have a negative impact on net interest margin and earnings.. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact the financial services industry and/or our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds, and are not necessarily intended to benefit our shareholders. Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us. Future legislation or regulatory changes would likely increase compliance costs, along with possibly restricting the operations of United Community.  In addition, regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading \"Regulation.\". The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.. Management's accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Three of the most critical estimates are the level of the allowance for loan losses, the fair value of real estate owned and the valuation of mortgage servicing rights. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses, sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance or recognize a significant provision for the impairment of mortgage servicing rights. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses and any loan losses that exceed our reserves would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Material breaches in security of our vendors and our systems may have a significant effect on our business.. Financial institutions are under continuous threat of loss due to cyber-attacks especially as we continue to expand customer capabilities to utilize internet and other remote channels to transact business. The most significant cyber - attack risks that we face are e-fraud, denial of service, and loss of sensitive customer data. Loss from e-fraud occurs when cybercriminals breach and extract funds directly from customer or our accounts. Loss can occur as a result of negative customer experience in the event of a successful denial of service attack that disrupts availability of our on-line banking services. The attempts to breach sensitive customer data, such as account numbers and social security numbers, could present significant operational, reputational, legal and/or regulatory costs to us, if successful. The Company has security, backup and recovery systems in place and a comprehensive business continuity plan to ensure the systems will not be inoperable. The Company also has security in place to prevent unauthorized access to the systems. In addition, the Company has a cyber-liability insurance policy to protect against breaches of the Company and vendor systems.  Third party service providers also are required to maintain similar controls. However, the Company cannot be certain the measures will be successful to prevent a security breach. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature and complexity of these threats from cybercriminals and hackers, our plans to continue to provide internet banking and mobile banking channels, and our plans to develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers. Security breaches also may increase reputational and legal risks, and the Company could experience an increase in expenses or losses resulting from such breaches.. Potential misuse of funds or information by the Bank's employees or by third parties could result in damage to our customers for which we could be held liable, subject the Company to regulatory sanctions and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our employees handle a significant amount of funds, as well as financial and personal information.  Although the Company has implemented systems to minimize the risk of fraudulent taking or misuse of funds or information, there can be no assurance that such systems will be adequate or that a taking or misuse of funds or information by employees, by third parties who have authorized access to funds or information, or by third parties who are able to access funds or information without authorization will never occur.  We could be held liable for such an event and could also be subject to regulatory sanctions.  We could also incur the expense of. 23. developing additional controls to prevent future such occurrences.  Although the Company has insurance to cover such potential losses, we cannot provide assurance that such insurance will be adequate to meet any liability.   In addition, any loss of trust or confidence placed in the Company by our clients could result in a loss of business, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio.. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; the credit history of a particular borrower; changes in economic and industry conditions; and the duration of the loan.. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and probable incurred losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates and real estate values, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if the Company fails to manage its growth effectively.. United Community may acquire other financial institutions or parts of institutions in the future, open new branches, and consider new lines of business and new products or services. Expansions of its business would involve a number of expenses and risks, including:. •  the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions or expansions into new markets;. •  the potential inaccuracy of estimates and judgments used to evaluate the business and risks with respect to target institutions;. •  the time and costs of hiring local management and opening new offices;. •  the delay in the generation of profits from commencing potential acquisitions or engaging in new activities;. •  United Community's ability to finance an expansion and the possible dilution to existing shareholders;. •  the diversion of management's attention to the expansion;. •  management's lack of familiarity with new market areas;. •  the integration of new products and services and new personnel into the Company's existing business;. •  the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and effects on United Community's results of operations; and. •  the risk of loss of key employees and customers.. If United Community's growth involves the acquisition of companies through merger or other acquisition, the success of such merger or acquisition will depend on, among other things, United Community's ability to combine the businesses in a manner that permits growth opportunities and cost efficiencies, and does not cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the ability of United Community to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger or acquisition.. 24. Failure to manage United Community's growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on its business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations and could adversely affect United Community's ability to successfully implement its business strategy.. The Company's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely impacted by potential losses in connection with actual or projected repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages sold into the secondary market.. In connection with the origination and sale of residential mortgages into the secondary market, the Company makes certain representations and warranties, which, if breached, may require it to repurchase such loans, substitute other loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. Although the Company believes that its mortgage documentation and procedures have been appropriate, it is possible that the Company will receive repurchase requests in the future and the Company may not be able to reach favorable settlements with respect to such requests. It is therefore possible that the Company may increase its reserves or may sustain losses associated with such loan repurchases and indemnification payments.. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key people. There are a limited number of qualified persons in our market area with the knowledge and experience required to successfully manage our business. The unexpected loss of services of other key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of a loss of their skills, knowledge of our market and years of industry experience. If the Company is not able to promptly recruit qualified personnel, which the Company requires to conduct our operations, our business and our ability to successfully implement our strategic plan could be affected.. Volatility in the economy may negatively impact the fair value of our common shares.. The market price for our common shares has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future, including:. •  Announcements of developments related to our business;. •  Fluctuations in our results of operations;. •  Sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace;. •  General conditions in our markets or the worldwide economy;. •  A default by another large financial institution;. •  A shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to market expectations;. •  Our inability to pay dividends; and. •  Our announcement of other projects.. We rely, in part, on external financing to fund our operations and the availability of such funds in the future could adversely impact our growth strategy and prospects.. Home Savings relies on deposits, advances from the FHLB and other borrowings to fund its banking operations. United Community has no debt outstanding. Although the Company considers its sources of funds to be adequate for its current funding needs, the Company may seek additional debt or equity capital in the future to achieve its long-term business objectives. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to the Company's shareholders, and debt refinancing arrangements may require the Company to pledge some of its assets and enter into covenants that would restrict its ability to incur further indebtedness. Additional financing sources, if sought, might be unavailable to the Company or, if available, could be on terms unfavorable to it. If additional financing sources are unavailable, not available on reasonable terms or the Company is unable to obtain any required regulatory approval for additional debt, the Company's growth strategy and future prospects could be adversely impacted.. Our ability to pay cash dividends is subject to certain regulatory requirements.. United Community is generally dependent upon the earnings of Home Savings for funds to pay dividends on our common shares. The payment of dividends by Home Savings is subject to certain regulatory restrictions. Federal law generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distributions (including payment of a dividend) to its parent holding company if the depository institution would be undercapitalized as a result.. 25. U.S. tax laws applicable to Home Savings would cause a taxable recapture of accumulated bad debt reserves of up to $21.1 million to the extent that Home Savings makes a distribution to United Community while Home Savings does not have sufficient tax earnings and profits at the time of such distribution. The income tax liability resulting from such a distribution could be as great as $4.4 million. No deferred tax liability has been recorded for this potential recapture liability. For a further description, refer to Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.  Accordingly, until Home Savings restores its tax earnings and profits to an amount sufficient to avoid taxable bad debt reserve recapture upon distributions to United Community, we may be unwilling to approve a dividend from Home Savings to United Community even if Home Savings was otherwise permitted or able to make a dividend to United Community. As of December 31, 2017, the deficit in tax earnings and profits was approximately $17.6 million. Tax earnings and profits is generally increased by taxable income and tax-exempt income and decreased by income taxes payable and non-deductible expenses.. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future by United Community will be generally dependent on Home Savings' earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors.. Changes in the fair value of our investment securities may reduce stockholders' equity and net income.. As of December 31, 2017, securities available for sale were $270.6 million and the net unrealized losses on those securities were $1.1 million. Stockholders' equity is increased or decreased by the change in unrealized gain or loss on these securities, through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI). The unrealized gain or loss represents the difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost of the securities. A decline in the estimated fair value of the portfolio results in, but is not limited to, a decline in stockholders' equity, book value per common share, and tangible book value per common share. Potential recovery of a debt security is dependent upon a number of factors as it approaches maturity, including, but not limited to, credit quality and market interest rates. Increases in market interest rates commonly result in declines in the fair value of debt securities. Equity securities have no stated maturity; therefore, declines in fair value may or may not be recovered over time and are subject to market and issuer fundamentals.. We conduct quarterly reviews of our securities portfolio to determine if the declines are other-than-temporary. If we determine that fair value decreases are other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of noninterest income.. We continue to monitor the fair value of our securities portfolio as part of our ongoing other-than-temporary-impairment (OTTI) evaluation process. No assurance can be given that we will not need to recognize OTTI charges in the future. Additional OTTI charges may materially affect our financial condition and earnings. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion on OTTI.. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures or interruptions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. We outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing, loan servicing and deposit processing systems. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with, and depend on, third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could result in harm  to such customer for which we may be held liable or incur sanctions.. Potential misuse of funds or information by Home Savings' employees or by third parties could result in damage to Home Savings' customers for which Home Savings could be held liable, subject Home Savings to regulatory sanctions and otherwise adversely affect Home Savings' financial condition and results of operations.. Home Savings' employees handle a significant amount of funds, as well as financial and personal information. Although Home Savings has implemented systems to minimize the risk of fraudulent taking or misuse of funds or information, there can be no assurance that such systems will be adequate or that a taking or misuse of funds or information by employees, by third parties who have authorized access to funds or information, or by third parties who are able to access funds or information without authorization. 26. will never occur. Home Savings could be held liable for such an event and could also be subject to regulatory sanctions. Home Savings could also incur the expense of developing additional controls to prevent future such occurrences. Although Home Savings has insurance to cover such potential losses, Home Savings cannot provide assurance that such insurance will be adequate to meet any liability. In addition, any loss of trust or confidence placed in Home Savings by our customers could result in a loss of business, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We could suffer a material adverse impact from interruptions in the effective operation of, or security breaches affecting, our computer systems.. Home Savings relies heavily on information systems to conduct our business and to process, record, and monitor transactions. Risks to the system result from a variety of factors, including the potential for bad acts on the part of hackers, criminals, employees and others. As one example, some banks have experienced denial of service attacks in which individuals or organizations flood the bank's website with extraordinarily high volumes of traffic, with the goal and effect of disrupting the ability of the bank to process transactions. Home Savings is also at risk for the impact of natural disasters, terrorism and international hostilities on its systems or for the effects of outages or other failures involving power or communications systems operated by others. These risks also arise from the same types of threats to businesses with which Home Savings deals."
