[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. General.. Both of our business segments are affected by general economic and regulatory conditions in the U.S. and specific economic and regulatory conditions in particular industries.. General economic conditions in the United States in recent years have reduced demand for our lime and limestone products.  Specifically, demand from our steel and utility customers has decreased in recent years. Our steel customers have reduced their purchase volumes due to the ongoing difficult economic conditions in that industry.  Demand from our utility customers has decreased due to the trend in the United States to retire coal-fired utility plants.  The overall reduction in demand for lime and limestone products has also resulted in increased competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from other lime producers.. Reduced prices for natural gas and natural gas liquids over the past several years have resulted in reduced revenues from our Natural Gas Interests.  However, we have generally benefited from lower energy costs in our Lime and Limestone Operations segment.  In 2017, prices of natural gas and natural gas liquids recovered somewhat.. We are also in a period of regulatory uncertainty. While various proposals by the current Administration and Congress to reduce regulations in certain respects or as to certain industries, to increase infrastructure spending, to permit increased oil and gas drilling, to increase the use of coal, to stimulate steel and other manufacturing and to protect U.S. markets, as well as the impact of corporate tax reforms may increase U.S. economic activity and the demand for our lime and limestone products, there can be no assurance that such results will be achieved or that they will benefit us or our customers. In addition, depending on the outcome and effects of such proposals, a variety of factors, including uncertainty with respect to governmental budgetary constraints, legislative impasses, possible trade wars and increased inflationary pressures, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position that, on balance, may offset some or all of the benefits to us and our customers from the otherwise favorable regulatory changes.. 12. Table of Contents. For us to maintain or increase our profitability, we must maintain or increase our revenues and improve cash flows, manage our capital expenditures and control our operational and selling, general and administrative expenses. If we are unable to maintain our revenues and control our costs in these uncertain economic and regulatory times, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position could be materially adversely affected.. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in, or failure of, our information technology systems, including due to cybersecurity risks and incidents.. We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology (\"IT\") systems for our manufacturing, sales, financial and administrative functions. We also face the challenge of supporting our IT systems and implementing upgrades when necessary, including the prompt detection and remediation of any cyber-security breaches.. Our IT systems security measures are focused on the prevention, detection and remediation of damage from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber - attack and other similar disruptions. However, our IT systems may remain vulnerable to intrusion and damage despite our implementation of security measures that we feel protect our IT systems. Any failure, accident or security breach involving our IT systems could result in disruption to our operations. A material breach in the security of our IT systems could negatively impact our manufacturing operations, sales or financial and administrative functions, or result in the compromise of personal information of our employees, customers or suppliers. To the extent any such failure, accident or security breach results in disruption to our operations or sales or loss or disclosure of, or damage to, our data or confidential information, our costs can increase and our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Lime and Limestone Operations.. In the normal course of our Lime and Limestone Operations, we face various business and financial risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position. Not all risks are foreseeable or within our ability to control.. These risks arise from various factors, including, but not limited to, fluctuating demand and prices for our lime and limestone products, including as a result of downturns in the economy and in the construction, industrial, steel and oil and gas services industries, and reduced demand from coal-fired utility plants, increased competitive pressures from other lime producers, changes in legislation and regulations, including Environmental Laws, health and safety regulations and requirements to renew or obtain operating permits, our ability to produce and store quantities of lime and limestone products sufficient in amount and quality to meet customer demands and specifications, the success of our modernization, expansion and development strategies, the uncertainty of the product output from the shaft kiln technology being deployed at the St. Clair facility, including our ability to sell our increased lime capacity at acceptable prices, our ability to execute our strategies and complete projects on time and within budget, our ability to integrate, refurbish and/or improve acquired facilities, our access to capital, volatile costs, especially fuel, electricity, transportation and freight costs, inclement weather and the effects of seasonal trends.. We receive most of our coal and petroleum coke by rail, so the availability of sufficient solid fuels to run our plants could be diminished significantly in the event of major rail disruptions. Domestic coal and petroleum coke may also be exported, which can increase competition and prices for the domestic supply. In addition, our freight costs to deliver our lime and limestone products are high relative to the value of our products, and they have generally increased in recent years. Our costs for delivery of solid fuels, as well as our products, also increase as demand for rail and trucking by other industries increases, and recent Department of Transportation rules reduce the availability of rail cars and trucks to deliver solid fuels to our plants and deliver our products to our customers. If we are unable to continue to pass along our variable coal, petroleum coke, diesel, natural gas, electricity, transportation and freight costs to our customers through higher prices or surcharges, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position could be materially adversely affected.. 13. Table of Contents. We quote on a delivered price basis to certain customers, which requires us to estimate future delivery costs. Our actual delivery costs may exceed these estimates, which would reduce our profitability.. Delivery costs are impacted by the price of diesel. When diesel prices increase, we incur additional fuel surcharges from freight companies that cannot be passed on to our customers that have been quoted a delivered price. Material increases in the price of diesel could have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability.. Governmental fiscal and budgetary constraints and legislative impasses have in the past, and may in the future, adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in various ways.. Governmental fiscal and budgetary constraints and legislative impasses may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in various ways, including possibly reduced funding for transportation programs by federal, state and local governmental agencies, which could reduce demand for our lime and limestone products from our construction customers.. Our mining and other operations are subject to operating risks that are beyond our control, which could result in materially increased operating expenses and decreased production and shipment levels that could materially adversely affect our Lime and Limestone Operations and their profitability.. We mine limestone in open pit and underground mining operations and process and distribute that limestone through our plants and other facilities. Certain factors beyond our control could disrupt our operations, adversely affect production and shipments and increase our operating costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  These include geological formation problems that may cause poor mining conditions, variability of chemical or physical properties of our limestone, an accident or other major incident at a site that may cause all or part of our operations to cease for some period of time and increase our expenses, mining, processing and plant equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems that may cause disruptions and added expenses, strikes, job actions or other work stoppages that may disrupt our operations or those of our suppliers, contractors or customers and increase our expenses, and adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as heavy rains, flooding, ice storms, freezing weather, drought and other natural events, that may affect operations, transportation or customers.. If any of these conditions or events occurs, our operations may be disrupted, we could experience a delay or halt of production or shipments, our operating costs could increase significantly and we could be exposed to fines, penalties, assessments and other liabilities. If our insurance coverage is limited or excludes a given condition or event, we may not be able to recover in full the losses that we may incur as a result of such conditions or events, some of which may be substantial.. We incur environmental compliance costs and liabilities, including capital, maintenance and operating costs, with respect to pollution control equipment, the cost of ongoing monitoring programs, the cost of reclamation and remediation efforts and other similar costs and liabilities relating to our compliance with Environmental Laws.  Even with the current period of regulatory uncertainty that could result in deregulation in certain areas, we expect these costs and liabilities to continue or increase, including possible new costs, taxes and limitations on operations such as those related to possible climate change initiatives, including regulation of greenhouse gas emissions.  Similar environmental costs and liabilities may also be faced by our customers.. The rate of change of Environmental Laws has been rapid over the last decade, and we may face possible new uncertainties, costs and liabilities, taxes and limitations on operations, including those related to climate change initiatives.  Even with the current period of regulatory uncertainty that could result in deregulation in certain areas, we expect our expenditure requirements for future environmental compliance, including complying with the new nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide and particulate matter emission limitations under the NAAQS and regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, to continue or increase.  Discovery of currently unknown conditions and unforeseen costs and liabilities could require additional expenditures.. The regulation of greenhouse gas emissions remains an issue for the Company and some of its customers. There is no assurance that changes in the law or regulations will not be adopted, such as the imposition of a carbon tax, a cap-and-trade program requiring companies to purchase carbon credits, or other measures that would require reductions in. 14. Table of Contents. emissions or changes to raw materials, fuel use or production rates, that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position.  More stringent regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could also adversely affect the competitiveness of some of the Company's customers, including coal-fired power plants, and indirectly the demand for our lime and limestone products.  For example, our utility customers may switch from coal to natural gas or renewable sources for power generation for environmental regulatory as well as cost reasons, thus reducing demand for our lime and limestone products for flue gas treatment processes.. We intend to comply with all Environmental Laws and believe our accrual for environmental costs and liabilities at December 31, 2017 is reasonable. Because many of the requirements are subjective and therefore not quantifiable or presently determinable, or may be affected by additional legislation and rulemaking, including those related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, there is no assurance or certainty that we will be able to continue or renew our operating permits, or to successfully secure new permits in connection with our modernization and expansion and development projects, and it is not possible to accurately predict the aggregate future costs and liabilities relating to environmental compliance and their effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position.. To maintain our competitive position, we may need to continue to increase the efficiency of our operations and expand production capacity, obtain financing for any such projects and acquisitions at reasonable interest rates and acceptable terms and sell any resulting increased production at acceptable prices.. We have currently undertaken our new kiln project at St. Clair. We may in the future undertake additional modernization and expansion and development projects and acquisitions. Such projects and acquisitions may require that we incur additional debt, which may not be available to us at all or at reasonable interest rates or on acceptable terms. Given current and projected demand for lime and limestone products, we cannot guarantee that any such project or acquisition would be successful, that we would be able to sell any resulting increased production at acceptable prices or that any such sales would be profitable.. Although prices for our lime and limestone products have been relatively firm in past years, pricing competition has increased in recent years. We are unable to predict future demand and prices, given the current economic and regulatory uncertainties in the U.S. and in particular industries, and cannot provide any assurance that current levels of demand and prices will continue or that any future increases in demand or prices can be maintained.. The lime industry is highly regionalized and competitive.. Our competitors are predominately large private companies. The primary competitive factors in the lime industry are price, quality, ability to meet customer demands and specifications, proximity to customers, personal relationships and timeliness of deliveries, with varying emphasis on these factors depending upon the specific product application. To the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position could be materially adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. Natural Gas Interests.. Our natural gas reserves are depleting assets, and we have no ability to explore for new reserves, nor at current market prices are there any present plans to drill additional wells on the O&G Properties.. Revenues from our Natural Gas Interests depend in large part on the quantity of natural gas and natural gas liquids produced from the O & G Properties. Our 39 producing wells will naturally experience declines in production rates due to depletion of their natural gas reserves, and the operators may determine to temporarily shut in or to plug and abandon a producing well if they believe that it is no longer economical to continue production from the well. We have no ability to explore for new reserves, and at current market prices for natural gas and natural gas liquids, there are no present plans to drill additional wells on the O & G Properties, thus limiting our Natural Gas Interests revenues to production from our existing wells.. Historically, the markets for natural gas and natural gas liquids have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future.. Various factors that are beyond our control will affect the demand for, and prices of, natural gas and natural gas liquids. The natural gas industry is cyclical in nature and tends to reflect general economic and gas supply and demand conditions. Recent technological advances, such as hydraulic fracturing, have enabled the industry to access additional reserves and have greatly increased the current supply of natural gas and natural gas liquids in the United States and elsewhere, generally resulting in lower natural gas and natural gas liquids prices. Lower natural gas and natural gas liquids prices may reduce the amount of natural gas and natural gas liquids that is economical for our operators to produce on the O & G Properties, or cause them to shut in wells for extended periods of time or to plug and abandon wells. Reduced prices and production could further reduce our revenues and cash flows from our Natural Gas Interests, while at the same time also increasing the rate at which we record non-cash depletion expense on our wells, and thus could have an adverse effect on our gross profit from our Natural Gas Interests.. We do not control production operations on the O & G Properties, which could impact our Natural Gas Interests.. As the owner of royalty and non - operating working interests, our ability to influence production from the O & G Properties is severely limited. All decisions related to production on the O & G Properties will be made by the operators and may be influenced by factors beyond our control, including but not limited to natural gas and natural gas liquids prices, pipeline capacities, interest rates, budgetary considerations and general industry and economic conditions.. The occurrence of an operational risk or uncertainty that materially impacts the operations of the operators of the O & G Properties could have an adverse effect on the amount we receive in connection with our interests in production from the O & G Properties, which could have an adverse effect on our gross profit from our Natural Gas Interests.. Our natural gas gross profit is affected by production and other costs, some of which are outside of our control, and possible unitizations.. The Natural Gas Interests gross profit that comes from our non-operating working interests, and to a lesser extent our royalty interests, is directly affected by increases in production and other costs, including depletion expense, as well as unitizations of existing wells. Some of these costs are outside our control, including production costs, costs of regulatory compliance and severance and other similar taxes. Other expenditures are dictated by business necessity, such as working over existing wells to increase recovery rates.. Governmental policies, laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on the O & G Properties and our natural gas business.. The O & G Properties and our natural gas business are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the oil and natural gas industry, as well as regulations relating to health and safety matters. Future developments regarding the regulation of the oil and gas industry are difficult to predict.  Both current and potential future changes to laws and regulations can have a significant impact on the costs and amount of our production.. 16. Table of Contents. Environmental costs and liabilities and changing environmental regulation associated with the O & G Properties could adversely affect our gross profit from our Natural Gas Interests.. As with other companies engaged in the ownership and production of natural gas, we expect to have some risk of exposure to environmental costs and liabilities. The costs and liabilities associated with environmental compliance or remediation could reduce the gross profits we would receive from our Natural Gas Interests.  The O & G Properties continue to be subject to extensive federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to environmental affairs, health and safety and waste management.. Any increased regulation of natural gas production could increase our production costs on the O & G Properties and adversely affect our gross profit from our Natural Gas Interests. Third parties could also pursue legal actions to enforce compliance or assert claims for damages. Further, under certain environmental laws and regulations, the operators and owners of the underlying properties could also be subject to joint and several, strict liability for the removal or remediation of released materials or property contamination from drilling, including hydraulic fracturing, or waste disposal, regardless of whether the operators or owners were responsible for the release or contamination or if the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws.  Future Environmental Law developments, such as stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies, including climate change legislation mandating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, could significantly increase the costs of production from the O & G Properties and adversely affect our gross profit from our Natural Gas Interests."
