[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business.  These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.  We note these factors for investors within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act and Section 27A of the Securities Act.  You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors.  Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete. 40. Table of Contents. discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to other information contained in this Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes.. Risks Related to Our Industry. Failure of our schools to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial requirements or penalties, restrictions on our operations and loss of external financial aid funding.. In 2017, we derived approximately 71% of our revenues, on a cash basis, from Title IV Programs, administered by ED.  To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED and be certified as an eligible institution by ED.  As a result, our institutions are subject to extensive regulation by the state agencies, ACCSC and ED.  Our institutions also are subject to the requirements of other federal and state regulatory agencies. These regulatory requirements cover the vast majority of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and financial condition.  These regulatory requirements also affect our ability to acquire, expand or open additional institutions or campuses, add new, or expand our existing educational programs and change our corporate structure and ownership.  Most ED requirements are applied on an institutional basis, with an \"institution\" defined by ED as a main campus and its additional locations, if any.  Under ED's definition, we have three such institutions. The state agencies, ACCSC and ED periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. ED has imposed new regulatory requirements, such as the gainful employment regulations, and proposed the creation of additional regulatory requirements, such as the defense to repayment regulations and the expanded financial responsibility regulations, that apply to our schools.  See \"Risks Related to Our Industry - Compliance with the Title IV Program Integrity regulations, gainful employment regulations and ongoing negotiated rulemaking could materially and adversely affect our business\" and \"Risks Related to Our Industry - Failure to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs could materially and adversely affect our business - Financial Responsibility Standards.\". If our institutions failed to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, our regulatory agencies could impose monetary penalties; bring litigation against us; place limitations on our schools' operations, such as restricting our ability to recruit or enroll students within certain states or imposing letter of credit requirements; terminate our schools' ability to grant certificates, diplomas and degrees; revoke our schools' accreditation; or terminate our schools' eligibility to receive Title IV Program funds, each of which could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition, and impose significant operating restrictions upon us.  Further, ED and other regulators have increased the frequency and severity of their enforcement actions against postsecondary schools which have resulted in the imposition of material liabilities, sanctions, letter of credit requirements and other restrictions and, in some cases, resulted in the loss of schools' eligibility to receive Title IV funds or in closure of the schools.  We cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. We believe that we have described the most significant regulatory risks that apply to our schools in the following paragraphs.. Failure to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs could materially and adversely affect our business.. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must be authorized to offer its programs by the relevant state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED and be certified as eligible by ED.  The substantial amount of federal funds disbursed through Title IV Programs, the large number of students and institutions participating in those programs and instances of fraud and abuse have prompted ED to exercise significant regulatory oversight over institutions participating in Title IV Programs.  Accrediting commissions and state agencies also oversee compliance with both their respective standards and with Title IV Program requirements.. 41. Table of Contents. As a result, each of our institutions is subject to detailed oversight and review and must comply with a complex framework of frequently changing laws and regulations and subjective regulatory interpretation of these obligations by various regulating entities.  Because ED periodically revises its regulations and changes its interpretation of existing laws and regulations, we cannot predict with certainty how Title IV Program requirements will be applied in all circumstances.  Additionally, given the complex nature of the regulations, the fact that they are subject to multiple interpretations, a stated department policy of providing limited or no interpretive guidance on certain issues and the large volume of Title IV transactions in which we are involved, it is reasonable to conclude that, from time to time, in the conduct of our business, we may inadvertently violate such regulations.  In such an event, remedial action may be necessary, regulatory proceedings could occur and regulatory penalties could be assessed.. Significant factors relating to Title IV Program eligibility that could adversely affect us include the following:. State Authorization. A campus that grants certificates, diplomas or degrees must be authorized to offer postsecondary education programs in that state by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. The recruitment activity of admissions representatives in states where we do not physically have a campus location may also trigger licensing requirements for campuses in those states.  Requirements for authorization vary substantially among states.  State authorization is also required for students to be eligible for funding under Title IV Programs.  Loss of state authorization by any of our campuses from the education agency of the state in which the campus is located would end that campus' eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the campus, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.  Loss of state authorization in a state where we do not physically have a campus location, but we do have admissions representatives recruiting students would mean that our admissions representatives could no longer recruit students in that state.  See \"Business - Regulatory Environment - State Authorization and Regulation\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K for additional information.. Accreditation. A school must be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED in order to participate in Title IV Programs. Loss of institutional accreditation by any of our institutions (or of any institution that we may acquire or open in the future) would end that institution's participation in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the institution, or seek a new accrediting entity.  If an accrediting agency that accredits one of our institutions (or an institution that we may acquire or open in the future) loses its ED recognition, ED may provisionally certify the institution to continue participating in the Title IV Programs for a period of up to 18 months during which time the institution may attempt to obtain accreditation from another ED-recognized accrediting agency.  Moreover, even if ED provisionally certifies the institution for up to 18 months, the loss of ED recognition by an institution's accrediting agency could result in a more immediate loss of the institution's state authorization and, in turn, loss of Title IV eligibility, programmatic accreditation, or eligibility to participate in certain federal or state financial assistance programs if accreditation by an ED-recognized accrediting agency is a precondition to such authorization, accreditation or eligibility.. The loss of accreditation by any of our current or future institutions, or the loss of ED recognition of an institution's accrediting agency, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.  See \"Business - Regulatory Environment - Accreditation\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K for additional information.  A change in accreditation to a more restrictive or monitored status could restrict our ability to add new programs, open new campuses or increase recruitment activity.. 42. Table of Contents. The \"90/10 Rule\". Under the \"90/10 Rule,\" a for-profit institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if it derives more than 90% of its revenue from those programs for two consecutive institutional fiscal years, under a cash-basis calculation mandated by ED.  The period of ineligibility covers at least the next two succeeding fiscal years, and any Title IV Program funds already received by the institution and its students during the period of ineligibility would have to be returned to ED.  If an institution exceeds the 90% level for a single year, ED will place the institution on provisional certification for a period of at least two years and could impose other restrictions or conditions on the institution's Title IV eligibility, including, under the new Defense to  Repayment regulations that were scheduled to take effect on July 1, 2017, but have been delayed until further notice, the requirement to submit to ED a letter of credit or other form of financial protection.  If we are placed on provisional certification status for any reason, ED will require us to obtain prior approval for changes to our programs and locations and may more closely review any application we file for recertification, new locations, new educational programs, revisions to existing educational programs, acquisitions of other schools, increases in degree level or other significant changes. Furthermore, for an institution that is provisionally certified, ED may revoke the institution's certification without advance notice or advance opportunity to challenge the action.  In our 2017 fiscal year, under the regulatory formula prescribed by ED, each of our institutions derived approximately 68% to 73% of its revenues from Title IV Programs.. We received a letter from ED in September 2015 requesting additional documentation in connection with revisions to our methodology for performing prior year 90/10 calculations. We provided the requested documentation in September 2015 and have not received a further response from ED. While the revisions did not cause any of our institutions to exceed the 90% revenue threshold, it is possible that ED may take other actions against our institutions or require us to provide additional information. See \"Business - Regulatory Environment - Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs - the '90/10 Rule'\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K for additional information.. Multiple legislative proposals have been introduced in Congress that would increase the requirements of the 90/10 Rule, such as reducing the 90% maximum under the rule to 85% and/or including military and veterans' funding in the 90% portion of the calculation.  If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, such a loss would adversely affect our students' access to Title IV Program funds they need to pay their educational expenses, which could reduce our student population and would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Federal Student Loan Defaults. An institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs if its former students default on the repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels.  Based upon the most recent student loan default rates published by ED, none of our institutions have federal student loan default rates that exceed the specified levels.  If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs because of high student loan default rates, such a loss would adversely affect our students' access to various Title IV Program funds, which could reduce our student population and would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.  See \"Business - Regulatory Environment - Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs - Federal Student Loan Defaults\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K for additional information.. Financial Responsibility Standards. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by ED or post a letter of credit in favor of ED and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV Programs.  The operating conditions that may be placed on a school that does not meet the standards of financial responsibility include being transferred from the advance payment method of receiving Title IV Program. 43. Table of Contents. funds to either the reimbursement or the heightened cash monitoring system, which could result in a significant delay in the institution's receipt of those funds, require the institution to pay credit balances due to students and parents before drawing down funds from ED for the amount of disbursements made to the student or parent, and increased administrative costs related to those funds.  See \"Business - Regulatory Environment - Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs - Financial Responsibility Standards\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K for additional information.  ED published amendments to the financial responsibility regulations to expand the list of actions or events that would require an institution to provide ED with a letter of credit or other form of acceptable financial protection, but ED delayed the effective date of those regulations until July 1, 2018 and has proposed delaying until July 1, 2019 under a proposal published by ED on October 24, 2017. ED has announced its intent to renegotiate those rules.  See \"Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs - Defense To Repayment Proposed Regulations\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K for additional information.. ED has historically evaluated the financial condition of our institutions on a consolidated basis based on the financial statements of Universal Technical Institute, Inc. as the parent company.  ED's regulations permit ED to examine the financial statements of Universal Technical Institute, Inc., the financial statements of each institution and the financial statements of any related party. For our 2017 fiscal year, we calculated our composite score to be 2.2.  However, the composite score calculations and resulting requirements imposed on our institutions are subject to determination by ED once it receives and reviews our audited financial statements.. ED has not required us currently to post a letter of credit on behalf of any of our schools.  ED has required us to provide certain information on a regular basis following our recent issuance of preferred stock.  ED concluded that the transaction did not constitute a change in ownership resulting in a change of control requiring ED approval, but did require us to provide 13-week projected cash flow statements every two weeks and to provide a roster of our current students on a monthly basis.  We began providing this information to ED on a regular basis on July 15, 2016.. We may be required to post letters of credit or to comply with limitations on our Title IV participation in the future, which could increase our costs of regulatory compliance or change the timing of receipt of Title IV Program funds. ED has imposed material letters of credit and limitations on some schools and also has denied the eligibility of other schools to continue participating in the Title IV Programs. Our inability to obtain a required letter of credit or the imposition of other limitations on our participation in Title IV Programs could limit or result in the loss of our students' access to Title IV Program funds, which could reduce our student population and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Return of Title IV Funds. A school participating in Title IV Programs must correctly calculate and return funds received for students who withdraw before completing their educational programs whose aid exceeds the amount earned under Title IV Program guidelines.  Returns must be completed in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn.  If the unearned funds are not properly calculated or timely returned, we may be required to post a letter of credit in favor of ED, pay interest on the late repayment of funds, or be otherwise sanctioned by ED, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations.  Additionally, the failure to timely return Title IV Program funds also could result in the termination of eligibility to receive such funds going forward or the imposition of other sanctions.  Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.  Given the complex nature of the regulations applicable to Title IV refunds and the fact they are subject to multiple interpretations, and the large volume of such transactions in which we are involved, it is reasonable to conclude that, from time to time, in the conduct of our business, we may inadvertently violate such regulations.  In such an event, remedial actions may be necessary, regulatory proceedings could occur and regulatory penalties could be assessed.. 44. Table of Contents. Administrative Capability. ED regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite \"administrative capability\" to participate in Title IV Programs.  These criteria require, among other things, that the institutions:. • comply with all Title IV Program regulations;. • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer Title IV Programs;. • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students;. • administer Title IV Programs with adequate checks and balances in its system of internal controls over financial reporting;. • divide the function of authorizing and disbursing or delivering Title IV Program funds so that no office has the responsibility for both functions;. • establish and maintain records required under Title IV Program regulations;. • develop and apply an adequate system to identify and resolve discrepancies in information from sources regarding a student's application for financial aid under Title IV Programs;. • not have a student loan cohort default rate above specified levels;. • refer to the Office of the Inspector General any credible information indicating that any applicant, student, employee or agent of the institution has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV Programs;. • not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is the cause of debarment or suspension;. • provide adequate financial aid counseling to its students;. • show no significant problems that affect the administrative ability of the institution;. • develop and follow procedures to evaluate the validity of a student's high school completion;. • timely submit all reports and financial statements required by the regulations; and. • not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability.. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria, ED may, among other things:. • require the repayment of Title IV Program funds;. • impose a less favorable payment system for the institution's receipt of Title IV Program funds;. • place the institution on provisional certification status; or. • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV Programs, or decline to renew the institution's program participation agreement.. 45. Table of Contents. Moreover, ED could take one or more of the actions identified above based on an institution's noncompliance with ED requirements or the pendency of an ongoing audit or review even if ED does not conclude that the institution lacks administrative capability.  If we are placed on provisional certification status for any reason, ED will require us to obtain prior approval for changes to our programs and locations and may more closely review any application we file for recertification, new locations, new educational programs, revisions to existing educational programs, acquisitions of other schools, increases in degree level or other significant changes.  Furthermore, for an institution that is provisionally certified, ED may revoke the institution's certification without advance notice or advance opportunity to challenge the action.. If we fail to maintain administrative capability as defined by ED or otherwise fail to comply with ED requirements, we could lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or have that eligibility adversely conditioned, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Compliance with the Title IV Program Integrity regulations, gainful employment regulations and ongoing negotiated rulemaking could materially and adversely affect our business.. Since the publication of the program integrity regulations in 2010, ED has issued interpretive guidance on the regulations in the form of multiple Dear Colleague Letters and electronic announcements to institutions. The letters and announcements provide sub-regulatory guidance on certain aspects of the regulations, which assists institutions with understanding the regulations in these areas.  The laws and regulations governing certain of the requirements do not establish clear criteria for compliance, and ED has indicated that they do not intend to provide additional guidance on certain topics. In particular, the elimination of the 12 safe harbors regarding the incentive compensation prohibition significantly impacted our business. ED published guidance in November 2015 that eliminated certain restrictions on incentive compensation for admissions representatives. Specifically, ED reconsidered its previous interpretation and stated that its regulations do not prohibit compensation for admissions representatives that is based upon students' graduation from, or completion of, educational programs.  Compensation based on enrolling students, however, continues to be prohibited. For a description of additional information regarding these regulatory changes, see \"Business - Regulatory Environment - Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs - Incentive Compensation\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K. We have made adjustments to the compensation practices for our admissions representatives which we believe are compliant with ED's November 2015 guidance. The transition period for the new compensation structure will continue through calendar year 2018. We will continue to evaluate other compensation options under these regulations and guidance.. ED published the final gainful employment rule on October 31, 2014, which took effect on July 1, 2015.  The final rule includes debt to earning (DE) metrics and disclosure requirements as well as requirements for program certifications, reporting and disclosure of program information and warnings.  For a summary of the final rules, see \"Business - Regulatory Environment - Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs - Gainful Employment\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K.. Compliance with final rules could have a material adverse effect on the manner in which we conduct our business and our results of operations. In January 2017, ED issued to our schools final versions of the first set of DE rates to be issued under the new rule.  Under these rates for the 2015 debt measure year, none of our programs had failing rates. Nine of our 12 educational programs achieved passing rates, and the other three programs were in the zone.  The three programs in the zone are the Collision Repair, Automotive and Motorcycle programs at our Universal Technical Institute of Phoenix institution, which includes our MMI Phoenix, Arizona and Orlando, Florida campuses and our Sacramento, California campus. All of the programs at our Universal Technical Institute of Arizona and Universal Technical Institute of Texas institutions had passing draft DE rates. With respect to future DE rates, we are not able to develop reliable projections of our programs' performance under the final rule because we do not have access to the SSA earnings data that is used in the calculations. Additionally, on August 8, 2017, ED officials announced that ED did not have a timetable for the issuance of completer lists to schools, which is. 46. Table of Contents. the first step toward generating the data for calculating new gainful employment rates.  Consequently, we cannot predict when ED will begin the process of calculating and issuing new draft or final gainful employment rates in the future.  We also cannot predict whether the announcement of the intent to initiate gainful employment rulemaking or the extension of certain gainful employment deadlines may result in ED delaying the issuance of new draft or final gainful employment rates in the future.. If a particular program ceased to be eligible for Title IV Program funding, in most cases it would not be practical to continue offering that program under our current business model, which could reduce our enrollment and have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. In order to prevent this, we may have to explore mitigation strategies which might include preemptively reducing program tuition in an attempt to ensure compliance. Because we cannot calculate the exact impact of such action on the program's DE rates, we may overestimate the required tuition reduction, which would have a negative impact on our tuition revenues. Conversely, we may underestimate the required tuition reduction and fail to improve the program's DE rates, which could result in the loss of Title IV eligibility. Additionally, a decrease in or loss of any non-loan financial aid available to our students, such as financial aid provided by states, as discussed below, could cause the students to incur more loan debt, which would negatively impact our DE rates. Finally, the disclosures and warnings required by the final rule could also negatively impact our enrollment and have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. On November 1, 2016, ED published final regulations in the Federal Register establishing new rules regarding, among other things, the ability of borrowers to obtain discharges of their obligations to repay certain Title IV loans and for ED to initiate a proceeding to collect from the institution the discharged and returned amounts and the extensive list of circumstances that may require institutions to provide letters of credit or other financial protection to ED. The new regulations, among other things:. • Establish amended procedures and standards for borrowers, either individually or as a group, to assert through an ED-administered process a defense to the borrowers' obligation to repay certain Title IV loans based on certain acts or omissions of the institution.  The regulations also expand the types of defenses available for loans first disbursed on or after July 1, 2017. If ED approves the borrower's defense to repayment through the applicable administrative process established in the proposed regulations, ED may discharge the borrower's obligation to repay some or all of the borrower's student loans and may initiate a separate proceeding to collect from the institution the discharged and returned amounts.. • Revise the financial responsibility regulations to expand the list of actions or events that would require an institution to provide ED with a letter of credit or other form of acceptable financial protection and potentially be subject to other conditions and requirements. The specified list of events is extensive and includes, among other potential triggers, certain debts or liabilities arising from settlements or final judgments in judicial or administrative proceedings and certain lawsuits pending for 120 days and initiated by a federal or state authority against the institution with respect to Direct Loans or educational services; certain other lawsuits in which the institution's summary judgment motion was denied or not filed, certain closures of one or more of the institution's locations, one or more gainful employment programs with gainful employment rates that could result in the program becoming ineligible in the next award year, certain withdrawals of owner's equity from the institution including by dividend, failure to comply with the 90/10 Rule for the most recently completed fiscal year, SEC warning that it may suspend trading on the institution's stock, failure to file certain reports with the SEC, the exchange on which the institution's stock is traded notifying the institution that it is not in compliance with exchange requirements or that its stock is delisted, cohort default rates of at least 30 percent for its two most recent rates, certain significant fluctuations in Title IV funding, certain citations for failure to comply with state agency requirements, failure to comply with yet to be developed ED financial stress tests, high annual dropout rates, the institution being placed on probation or issued a show-cause or similar action by its accrediting agency, certain violations of loan agreements, expected or pending claims for borrower relief discharges, and certain. 47. Table of Contents. other events that ED might identify as reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, business or results of operations of the institutions.. • Require proprietary institutions with student loan repayment rates, as defined in the regulations, below prescribed thresholds to provide an ED-prepared warning to prospective and enrolled students, as well as placement of the warning on its website and in all promotional materials and advertisements.. • Prohibit the use and reliance upon certain contractual provisions regarding dispute resolution processes, such as pre-dispute arbitration agreements or class action waivers, and require certain notifications, contract provisions and disclosures by institutions regarding students' ability to participate in certain class action lawsuits or initiate certain lawsuits instead of through arbitration.. For a more extended summary of the final rules, see \"Business - Regulatory Environment - Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs - Defense to Repayment Regulations\" and \"Business - Regulatory Environment - Financial Responsibility Regulations\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K.  The new regulations had a general effective date of July 1, 2017, but ED delayed the effective date of the majority of these regulations until July 1, 2018 and proposed to further delay the effective date until July 1, 2019 in a proposal published on October 24, 2017.  ED convened the first meeting of a negotiated rulemaking committee to develop proposed regulations to revise the regulations on borrower defenses to repayment of Federal student loans and other matters  in November 2017 and is scheduled to continue additional meetings of the committee into early 2018. ED intends to issue proposed regulations for public comment during the first half of 2018, but ED has not established a final schedule.  Any regulations published in final form by November 1, 2018 typically would take effect in July 1, 2019, but we cannot provide any assurances as to the timing or content of any such regulations or whether and when ED might end the delay in the effective date of the previously published regulations.. On August 25, 2017, ED announced its plans to convene two public hearings in September and October 2017 for the purpose of seeking input on ED regulations related to postsecondary education that may be appropriate for repeal, replacement or modification. The hearings are in accordance with a February 24, 2017 executive order that, among other things, directed federal agencies to establish a Regulatory Reform Task Force to evaluate existing regulations and make recommendations to the agency head regarding their repeal, replacement or modification. On June 22, 2017, ED published a notice in the Federal Register soliciting written comments from the public to inform its Task Force's evaluation of all of ED's existing regulations and guidance. The public hearings are designed to supplement this effort. ED convened two negotiated rulemaking committees with one committee considering proposed regulations related to borrower defense to repayment and financial responsibility matters and another committee considering proposed regulations related to gainful employment. We cannot predict whether or when this process, or any other process ED might initiate, will result in the proposal of new regulations or the repeal, replacement or modification of existing regulations, or whether any regulatory changes that might result from this process will or will not be favorable to our institutions.. We have devoted significant effort to understanding the effects of these regulations on our business and to developing compliant solutions that are also congruent with our business, culture and mission to serve our students and industry relationships. However, these solutions related to implementation and compliance with these final rules, including but not limited to cash management, compensation, gainful employment and defense to repayment, may have a material adverse effect on the manner in which we conduct our business, our student populations and the nature of our programs and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Interpretation of the regulations is subject to change if ED provides further guidance and clarification. The solutions may require further analysis based on the uncertainty noted above and any additional interpretive guidance that is provided.  Existing or future understandings could be different from ED's interpretations and thus lead to repayments, restrictions, fines or litigation.. 48. Table of Contents. The loss of funds from Veterans' Benefits programs could materially and adversely affect our business.. To participate in veterans' benefits programs, including the Post-9/11 GI Bill, the Montgomery GI Bill, the REAP, and VA Vocational Rehabilitation, an institution must comply with certain requirements established by the VA.  If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could lose our eligibility to participate in veterans' benefits programs, which could reduce our student population.  For additional information regarding this activity, see \"Business - Regulatory Environment - Other Federal and State Programs - Veterans' Benefits\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K.. Other considerations which could impact the funding we receive from veterans' benefits programs include the following:. • Access to military installations.  Recently, our access to military installations for student recruitment has become highly restricted due to the changes described in \"Business - Regulatory Environment - Other Federal and State Programs\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K. Restrictions on access necessary to continue to develop awareness of our programs with this population could reduce our enrollments.. • 90/10 rule changes.  Multiple legislative proposals have been introduced in Congress that would increase the requirements of the 90/10 Rule, such as reducing the 90% maximum under the rule to 85% and/or including military and veteran funding in the 90% portion of the calculation. Implementation of these proposals could have a negative impact on our 90/10 ratio, which could have a negative impact on our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, such a loss would adversely affect our students' access to Title IV Program funds they need to pay their educational expenses, which could reduce our student population and would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. • Funding for veterans' benefits programs. Funding for veterans' benefits programs is dependent upon Congressional appropriations. If appropriations are not maintained at the current level, or if an extended government shutdown were to occur, the VA might not be able to continue funding veterans' benefits.. • State Approving Agencies. The VA shares responsibility for VA benefit approval and oversight with designated SAAs.  SAAs play a critical role evaluating institutions and their programs to determine if they meet VA benefit eligibility requirements.  Processes and approval criterion as well as interpretation of applicable requirements can vary from state to state.  Therefore, approval in one state does not necessarily result in approval in all states.  If we are unable to secure approvals in one or more states, if the process for obtaining an approval takes significant time or if our approval is revoked, we could be required to alter the delivery methodology or structure of the program or experience delays in or the loss of a portion of VA funding, or could be required to return a portion of the funding received.  Students receiving VA funding may not be able to receive the full benefit of our Automotive and Diesel Technology II curricula methodology, which could reduce our enrollments and have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Any loss of funds from veterans' benefits programs could reduce our student population and have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Congress may change the law or reduce funding for or place restrictions on the use of funds received through Title IV Programs, which could reduce our student population, revenues and/or profit margin.. Congress periodically revises the HEA and other laws, and enacts new laws, governing Title IV Programs and annually determines the funding level for each Title IV Program, and may make changes in the laws at any time.  Congress most recently reauthorized the HEA in 2008, is actively working on another HEA reauthorization. 49. Table of Contents. and is expected to revise and reauthorize the HEA, but it is uncertain whether reauthorization will occur in 2018 or be delayed further.  Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of our schools or students to receive funding through these programs or places restrictions on the use of funds received by an institution through these programs could reduce our student population and revenues. Such action may occur during HEA reauthorization, or such action could also occur as part of separate technical amendments to the HEA or during Congress' annual budget and appropriations cycle.. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase administrative costs, reduce the ability of students to finance their education at our schools, and materially decrease student enrollment and result in decreased profitability.. Continued Congressional examination of the for-profit education sector could result in legislation or further ED rulemaking restricting Title IV Program participation by for-profit schools in a manner that materially and adversely affects our business.. Congress continues to be focused on for-profit education institutions, specifically regarding participation in Title IV Programs and U.S. DOD oversight of tuition assistance for military service members attending for-profit colleges. For a description of additional information regarding this activity, see \"Business - Regulatory Environment - Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs - Congressional Action\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K.. This Congressional activity could result in the enactment of more stringent legislation by Congress, further rulemakings affecting participation in Title IV Programs and other governmental actions, increasing regulation of the for-profit sector.  Action by Congress may also increase our administrative costs and require us to modify our practices in order for our institutions to comply with Title IV Program requirements.  In addition, concerns generated by this Congressional activity may adversely affect enrollment in for-profit educational institutions such as ours.  Any laws that are adopted that limit our or our students' participation in Title IV Programs or in programs to provide funds for active duty service members and veterans or the amount of student financial aid for which our students are eligible, or any decreases in enrollment related to the Congressional activity concerning this sector, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business could be harmed if we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program.. Because all Title IV Program student loans other than Perkins loans are now processed under the DL program, any processing disruptions by ED may impact our students' ability to obtain student loans on a timely basis.  If we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans through the DL program, either because of administrative challenges on our part or the inability of ED to process the increased volume of loans through the DL program on a timely basis, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely and materially affected.. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us.. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to compliance reviews and claims of noncompliance by government agencies, regulatory agencies and third parties alleging noncompliance with applicable standards.  These compliance reviews and claims could also result from our notification to an agency or third party based upon our own internal compliance review.  We are also subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to alleged violations of federal and state laws, false claims made to the federal government and routine employment matters.  While we are committed to strict compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and accrediting standards, if the results of government, regulatory or third party reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully. 50. Table of Contents. against lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay monetary damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of regulatory approvals or Title IV Program funding or other federal and state funding, injunctions or other penalties.  We could also incur substantial legal costs in excess of our insurance coverage.  Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or defend those lawsuits or claims.  Additionally, given the significant public scrutiny being placed on the sector, numerous state attorneys general have initiated investigations either of the operation of the for-profit schools in their state or of particular institutions operating in that state.. In September 2012, we received a Civil Investigative Demand (CID) from the Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts related to a pending investigation in connection with allegations that we caused false claims to be submitted to the Commonwealth relating to student loans, guarantees and grants provided to students at our Norwood, Massachusetts campus. The CID required us to produce documents and provide written testimony regarding a broad range of our business from September 2006 to September 2012. We responded timely to the request. The Attorney General made a follow-up request for documents, and we complied with this request in February 2013. In response to a status update request from us, the Attorney General requested and we provided in April 2015 additional documents and information related to graduate employment at our Norwood, Massachusetts campus and our policies and practices for determining graduate employment.  We have not received any additional requests since April 2015. At this time, we cannot predict the eventual scope, duration, outcome or associated costs of this request, and accordingly we have not recorded any liability in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of unsettled matters and we may incur significant defense costs and other expenses in connection with them in excess of our insurance coverage related to these matters. We may be required to pay substantial damages, settlement costs or fines or penalties. Such costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.  An adverse outcome in any of these matters could also materially and adversely affect our licenses, accreditation and eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. Our business and stock price could be adversely affected as a result of regulatory investigations of, or actions commenced against, us or other companies in our industry.. The operations of companies in the education and training services industry, including UTI, are subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing on the part of such companies have resulted in formal or informal investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, state governmental agencies, ED and other federal agencies.  These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of legislative hearings and regulatory actions at both the federal and state levels, focusing not only on the individual schools but in some cases on the for-profit postsecondary education sector as a whole. These investigations of or regulatory actions against specific companies in the education and training services industry could have a negative impact on our industry as a whole and on our stock price.  Furthermore, the outcome of such investigations and any accompanying adverse publicity could negatively affect student enrollment and heighten the risk of class action lawsuits against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in the state regulatory environment, including budget constraints and increased regulatory requirements, may affect our ability to obtain and maintain necessary authorizations or approvals from those states to conduct or change our operations.. Due to state budget constraints and changes in the regulatory environment in some of the states in which we operate, it is possible that some states may reduce the number of employees in, or curtail the operations of, the state education agencies that authorize our schools.  A delay or refusal by any state education agency in approving any changes in our operations that require state approval, such as the opening of a new campus, the introduction. 51. Table of Contents. of new programs or the revision of existing programs, a change of control or the hiring or placement of new admissions representatives, could prevent us from making such changes or delay our ability to make such changes, or could require substantial additional costs to accommodate such delay. State education agencies that authorize our schools continue to revise and/or issue new regulations requiring significant additional reporting and monitoring of student outcomes. Additionally, state education agencies may request additional information or supplemental reporting as a result of our recent financial performance.. The regulations and reporting requirements may lengthen the time to obtain necessary state approvals and require us to modify our operations in order to comply with the requirements.  This could impose substantial additional costs on our institutions, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Moreover, some states have added regulations that impose additional requirements on our schools and increase the complexity of existing requirements.  For example, some states, such as California and Massachusetts, have added requirements for institutions to report institutional data to current and prospective students.  California has added requirements to its existing rules for calculating job placement rates for graduates that are more exacting and difficult to substantiate.  Other states have added, or may add in the future, new or more complex requirements applicable to our institutions.  These requirements could create new compliance challenges and impose substantial additional costs on our institutions which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce the amount of such financial aid that is available to our students, which could reduce our student population and negatively affect our 90/10 Rule calculation and other compliance metrics.. A significant number of states are facing budget constraints that are causing them to reduce state appropriations in a number of areas.  Many of those states provide financial aid to our students.  These and other states may decide to reduce or redirect the amount of state financial aid that they provide to students, but we cannot predict how significant any of these reductions will be or how long they will last. If the level of state funding available to our students decreases and our students are not able to secure alternative sources of funding, our student population could be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The decrease or loss of this funding could also negatively impact our DE rates under the gainful employment rule, as well as our cohort default rates. Additionally, loss of state funding would negatively impact our 90/10 Rule calculation and the cost of our compliance with the 90/10 Rule, as this funding is counted in the non-Title IV Program funds portion of the ratio, and such loss would drive up the percentage of revenue attributable to Title IV Programs.. If we acquire an institution that participates in Title IV Programs or open an additional location, one or more of our regulators could decline to approve the acquired institution and/or additional location, or could impose material conditions or restrictions, which could prevent or limit the ability of the acquired institution and/or additional location to participate in Title IV Programs and, in turn, impair our ability to operate the acquired institution and/or the additional location as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that institution and/or opening of the additional location.. If we acquire an institution that participates in Title IV Program funding and/or open an additional location, we must obtain approval from ED and applicable state education agencies and accrediting commissions in order for the institution and/or additional location to be able to operate and participate in Title IV Programs.  While we would attempt to ensure we will be able to receive such approval prior to acquiring an institution and/or opening an additional location, approval may be withheld.  An acquisition can result in the temporary suspension of the acquired institution's participation in Title IV Programs and opening an additional location can result in a delay of the campus' participation in Title IV Programs unless we submit a timely and materially complete application for approval of the acquisition or the opening of the new location. Upon an acquisition, ED will only grant a temporary certification while it reviews the application.  If we were unable to timely establish or re-establish the. 52. Table of Contents. state authorization, accreditation or ED certification of the acquired institution or obtain approval for the new location, our ability to operate the acquired institution and/or open the additional location as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that institution and/or the opening of the additional location could be impaired.. Further, ED and applicable state education agencies and accrediting agencies could impose material conditions or restrictions on us and the acquired institution and/or the additional location, including but not limited to a material letter of credit, limitations or prohibitions on the ability to add new campuses or add or change educational programs, placement of the institution on the heightened cash monitoring or reimbursement method of payment and reporting and notification requirements.  Additionally, an acquired institution may have known or unknown instances of noncompliance with federal, state or accrediting agency requirements including, but not limited to, noncompliance with gainful employment requirements or with requirements included in the new defense to repayment regulations that could result in liabilities, sanctions, or material conditions or restrictions that we may inherit by acquiring the institution.  Although we attempt to conduct thorough due diligence of institutions that we intend to acquire, our due diligence efforts may be unsuccessful and fail to identify noncompliance or other facts that could result in liabilities, sanctions, or material conditions or restrictions.  The imposition of liabilities, sanctions, or material conditions or restrictions by one or more regulators could impair our ability to operate the acquired institution and/or open the additional location as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that institution and/or the opening of the additional location.. If regulators do not approve or delay their approval of transactions involving a change of control of our company or any of our schools, our ability to participate in Title IV Programs may be impaired.. If we or any of our schools experience a change of control under the standards of applicable federal and state agencies, our accrediting commission or ED, we or the affected schools must seek the approval of the relevant regulatory agencies. These agencies do not have uniform criteria for what constitutes a change of control.  Transactions or events that constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of our common stock or significant changes in the composition of our board of directors.  Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control.  Our failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change of control from ED, our accrediting commission or any state in which our schools are located would impair our ability to participate in Title IV Programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.  Our failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, approval of any change of control from any state in which we do not have a school but in which we recruit students could require us to suspend our recruitment of students in that state until we receive the required approval.  The potential adverse effects of a change of control with respect to participation in Title IV Programs could influence future decisions by us and our stockholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our stock.. Risks Related to Our Business. If we fail to effectively fill our existing capacity, we may experience a deterioration of our profitability and operating margins.. We have underutilized seating capacity at several of our campuses.  Our ongoing efforts to fill existing seating capacity may strain our management, operations, employees or other resources.  We may not be able to maintain our current seating capacity utilization rates, effectively manage our operation or achieve planned capacity utilization on a timely or profitable basis.  If we are unable to fill our underutilized seating capacity, we may experience operating inefficiencies that likely will increase our costs more than we had planned resulting in a deterioration of our profitability and operating margins.. 53. Table of Contents. Our proprietary loan program could have a negative effect on our results of operations.. Our proprietary loan program enables students who have utilized all available government-sponsored or other financial aid and have not been successful in obtaining private loans from other financial institutions, for independent students, or PLUS loans, for dependent students, to borrow a portion of their tuition if they meet certain criteria.. Under the proprietary loan program, the bank originates loans for our students who meet our specific credit criteria with the related proceeds to be used exclusively to fund a portion of their tuition. We then purchase all such loans from the bank at least monthly and assume all the related credit and collection risk. See Note 2 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements within Part IV of this Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of activity under our proprietary loan program.. Factors that may impact our ability to collect these loans include the following: current economic conditions; compliance with laws applicable to the origination, servicing and collection of loans; the quality of our loan servicers' performance; a decline in graduate employment opportunities and the priority that the borrowers under this loan program attach to repaying these loans as compared to other obligations, particularly students who did not complete or were dissatisfied with their programs of study. Because we record revenues upon the receipt of cash payments, if we are unable to collect on these loans, our revenues and profitability may continue to be adversely impacted.. Federal, state and local laws and general legal and equitable principles relating to the protection of consumers can apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the loans under our proprietary loan program. Any violation of various federal, state or local laws, including, in some instances, violations of these laws by parties not under our control, may result in losses on the loans or may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal or interest on the loans. This may be the case even if we are not directly responsible for the violations by such parties.. Our proprietary loan program may also be subject to oversight by the CFPB, which could result in additional reporting requirements or increased scrutiny. Other proprietary postsecondary institutions have been subject to recent information requests from the CFPB with regard to their private student loan programs. The possibility of litigation, and the associated cost, are risks associated with this student loan program. At least two proprietary education institutions have been subject to recent lawsuits under the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010; the institutions are accused of having unfair private student loan programs and of allegedly engaging in certain abusive practices, including interfering with students' ability to understand their debt obligations and failing to provide certain material information.. Changes in laws or public policy could negatively impact the viability of this student loan program and cause us to delay or suspend the program. Additionally, depending on the terms of the loans, state consumer credit regulators may assert that our activities in connection with the student loan program require us to obtain one or more licenses, registrations or other forms of regulatory approvals, any of which may not be able to be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. All of these factors could result in the proprietary loan program having a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on third parties to originate, process and service loans under our proprietary loan program.  If these companies fail or discontinue providing such services, our business could be harmed.. A state chartered bank with a small market capitalization originates loans under our proprietary loan program.  If the bank no longer provides service under the contract, we do not currently have an alternative bank to fulfill the demand.  There are a limited number of banks that are willing to participate in a program such as our proprietary loan program.  The time it could take us to replace the bank could result in an interruption in the loan origination process, which could result in a decrease in our student populations.  Furthermore, a single company. 54. Table of Contents. processes loan applications and services the loans under our proprietary loan program.  There is a 90-day termination clause in the contract under which they provide these services.  If this company were to terminate the contract, we could experience an interruption in loan application processing or loan servicing, which could result in a decrease in our student populations.. Failure on our part to maintain and expand existing industry relationships and develop new industry relationships with our industry customers could impair our ability to attract and retain students.. We have extensive industry relationships that we believe afford us significant competitive strength and support our market leadership.  These relationships enable us to support undergraduate enrollment by attracting students through brand name recognition and the associated prospect of high-quality employment opportunities.  Additionally, these relationships allow us to diversify funding sources, expand the scope and increase the number of programs we offer and reduce our costs and capital expenditures due to the fact that, pursuant to the terms of the underlying contracts with OEMs, we provide a variety of specialized training programs and typically do so using tools, equipment and vehicles provided by the OEMs.  These relationships also provide additional incremental revenue opportunities from training the employees of our industry customers.  Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain and expand our existing industry relationships and to enter into new industry relationships.  Certain of our existing industry relationships, including those with American Honda Motor Co. Inc.; Mercury Marine, a division of Brunswick Corp.; Volvo Penta of the Americas, Inc. and Yamaha Motor Corp., USA, are not memorialized in writing and are based on verbal understandings.  As a result, the rights of the parties under these arrangements are less clearly defined than they would be had they been in writing.  Additionally, certain of our written agreements may be terminated without cause by the OEM.  Finally, certain of our existing industry relationship agreements expire within the next six months.  We are currently negotiating to renew these agreements and intend to renew them to the extent we can do so on satisfactory terms.  The reduction or elimination of, or failure to renew any of our existing industry relationships, or our failure to enter into new industry relationships, could impair our ability to attract and retain students, require additional capital expenditures or increase expenses and have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Competition could decrease our market share and create tuition pricing concerns.. The postsecondary education market is highly competitive. We continue to experience a high level of competition for higher quality students. Some traditional public and private colleges and universities and community colleges, as well as other private career-oriented schools, offer programs that may be perceived by students to be similar to ours.  Most public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies and other financial sources not available to for-profit schools. Additionally, recent executive branch proposals and state initiatives have included two years of free tuition at community colleges for certain students, who must attend school at least half time, maintain a grade point average of 2.5 or higher and make steady progress toward a degree or transferring to a four-year institution.. Prospective students may also choose to forego additional education and enter the workforce directly, especially during periods when the unemployment rate declines or remains stable as it has in recent years. This may include employment with our industry partners or with other manufacturers and employers of our graduates.. Additionally, the military often recruits or retains potential students when branches of the military offer enlistment or re-enlistment bonuses.. We may limit tuition increases or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities; however, if we cannot effectively respond to competitor changes, it could reduce our enrollments and our student populations. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us will not adversely affect our market share, revenues and operating margin.. 55. Table of Contents. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop and integrate new programs in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis.. Prospective employers of our graduates demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. These skills are becoming more sophisticated in line with technological advancements in the automotive, diesel, collision repair, motorcycle and marine industries.  Accordingly, educational programs at our schools must keep pace with those technological advancements.  Additionally, the method used to deliver curriculum has been evolving to include on-line delivery.  The expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs, including our Automotive and Diesel Technology II curricula, and changes in the method in which we deliver them, may not be accepted by our students, prospective employers or the technical education market.  Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as the industries we serve require or as quickly as our competitors.  If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and our graduate employment rates could suffer.. Our Automotive and Diesel Technology II curricula are a blend of daily instructor-led theory and hands-on lab training complimented by interactive web-based learning, which is reflective of current industry training methods and standards.  The blended learning model combines several methodologies for communicating training information and incorporates on-site classes, real-time web-based learning sessions and independent learning and is the standard used by our OEMs to provide continuous technical education.  If we are unable to address and respond to requirements such as training instructors to teach the curricula, develop an IT infrastructure that would effectively support this program, obtain the appropriate equipment to teach this program to our students, or obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals to teach and fund this program, we may not be able to successfully roll out the curricula to new or existing campuses in a timely and cost-effective manner.  If we are not able to effectively and efficiently integrate the curricula or experience delays in development, this could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Macroeconomic conditions, particularly unemployment, could adversely affect our business.. The U.S. economy and the economies of other key industrialized countries have experienced difficult and uncertain economic characteristics.  While the economy has shown signs of recovery, the impact has not been equal, and certain sectors and socioeconomic groups continue to be negatively impacted. We believe that our enrollment is affected by changes in economic conditions, although the nature and magnitude of this effect are uncertain and may change over time.  While these conditions may have contributed to a portion of the past growth in our average full-time undergraduate student population as individuals sought to advance their education and improve their employment opportunities, during periods when the unemployment rate declines or remains stable as it has in recent years, prospective students have more employment options and recruiting new students has traditionally been more challenging.  Affordability concerns associated with increased living expenses and the availability of full- and part-time jobs for students attending classes have made it more challenging for us to attract and retain students.  The state of the general macroeconomic environment has had a negative impact on price sensitivity and on the ability and willingness of students and their families to incur debt.  Furthermore, these circumstances may continue to reduce the willingness of employers to sponsor educational opportunities for their employees, and affect the ability of our students to find employment in the auto, diesel, collision repair, motorcycle or marine industries, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Adverse market conditions for consumer and federally guaranteed student loans could adversely impact the ability of borrowers with little or poor credit history, such as many of our students, to borrow the necessary funds at an acceptable interest rate.  These events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former students to repay student loans, which could increase our student loan cohort default rate and require increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults.. 56. Table of Contents. We rely heavily on the reliability and performance of an internally developed student management and reporting system, and any difficulties in maintaining this system may result in service interruptions, decreased customer service or increased expenditures.. The software that underlies our student management and reporting has been developed primarily by our own employees.  The reliability and continuous availability of this internal system and related integrations are critical to our business.  Any interruptions that hinder our ability to timely deliver our services, or that materially impact the efficiency or cost with which we provide these services, or our ability to attract and retain computer programmers with knowledge of the appropriate computer programming language, would adversely affect our reputation and profitability and our ability to conduct business and  prepare financial reports.  Additionally, many of the software systems we currently use will need to be enhanced over time or replaced with equivalent commercial products, either of which could entail considerable effort and expense.. System disruptions and security threats to our computer networks, including breach of the personal information we collect, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation.. Our computer systems as well as those of our service providers are vulnerable to interruption, malfunction or damage due to events beyond our control, including malicious human acts committed by foreign or domestic persons, natural disasters, and network and communications failures. We have established a written data breach incident response policy which we test informally and formally at least annually. Additionally, we periodically perform vulnerability self-assessments and engage service providers to perform independent vulnerability assessments and penetration tests. However, despite network security measures, our servers and the servers at our service providers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, malicious code, organized cyber attacks and other security problems and system disruptions.  Increasing socioeconomic and political instability in some countries has heightened these risks. Despite the precautions we and our service providers have taken, our systems may still be vulnerable to these threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations.. Additionally, the personal information that we collect subjects us to additional risks and costs that could harm our business and our reputation. We collect, retain and use personal information regarding our students and their families and our employees, including personally identifiable information, tax return information, financial data, bank account information and other data. Although we employ various network and business security measures to limit access to and use of such personal information, we cannot guarantee that a third party will not circumvent such security measures, resulting in the breach, loss or theft of the personal information of our students and their families and our employees. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could restrict our use of personal information and require notification of data breaches. A violation of any laws or regulations relating to the collection, retention or use of personal information could also result in the imposition of fines or lawsuits against us.. Sustained or repeated system failures or security breaches that interrupt our ability to process information in a timely manner or that result in a breach of proprietary or personal information could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our reputation. Although we maintain insurance in respect of these types of events, available insurance proceeds may not be adequate to compensate us for damages sustained due to these events.. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business.. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers who generally have significant experience with our company and within the technical education industry.  Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, campus presidents, administrators and corporate management.  Due to the nature of our business, we face. 57. Table of Contents. significant competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek.  The for-profit education sector is under significant regulatory and government scrutiny, which may make it more difficult to attract and retain talent.  Additionally, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us.  Because we do not currently carry \"key man\" life insurance, the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to successfully manage our business.. If we are unable to hire, retain and continue to develop and train our admissions representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected.. In order to support revenue growth and student enrollment, we need to hire and train new admissions representatives, as well as retain and continue to develop our existing admissions representatives, who are our employees dedicated to student recruitment. Our ability to develop a strong admissions representative team may be affected by a number of factors, including the following: our ability to integrate and motivate our admissions representatives; our ability to effectively train our admissions representatives; the length of time it takes new admissions representatives to become productive; the competition we face from other companies in hiring, compensating and retaining admissions representatives and our ability to effectively manage a multi-location educational organization. We previously made modifications to our employee compensation structure in order to comply with the incentive compensation rule which affected the compensation structure for our admissions representatives, including the elimination of their variable compensation. As a result of these changes and the macroeconomic conditions impacting our business, we experienced a decrease in our enrollment rates. ED published guidance in November 2015 that eliminated certain restrictions on incentive compensation for admissions representatives. Specifically, ED reconsidered its previous interpretation and stated that its regulations do not prohibit compensation for admissions representatives that is based upon students' graduation from, or completion of, educational programs.  Compensation based on enrolling students, however, continues to be prohibited. For a description of additional information regarding these regulatory changes, see \"Business - Regulatory Environment - Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs - Incentive Compensation\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K. We have made adjustments to the compensation practices for our admissions representatives which we believe will be compliant with ED's November 2015 guidance. The transition period for the new compensation structure will continue through calendar year 2018. We will continue to evaluate other compensation options under these regulations and guidance.  Our existing compensation structure and any future changes to admissions representative compensation may result in a continued decrease in our enrollment rates. If we are unable to hire, develop or retain quality admissions representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected.. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our programs among high school graduates, military personnel and adults seeking advanced training.. The awareness of our programs among high school graduates, military personnel and working adults seeking advanced training is critical to the continued acceptance and growth of our programs.  Our inability to continue to develop awareness of our programs could reduce our enrollments, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing our programs:. • student dissatisfaction with our programs and services;. • diminished access to high school student populations, including school district limitations on access to students by for-profit institutions;. • reduced access to military bases and installations;. • our failure to maintain or expand our brand or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices;. 58. Table of Contents. • our inability to maintain relationships with automotive, diesel, collision repair, motorcycle and marine manufacturers and suppliers;. • availability of funding sources acceptable to our students; and. • recruitment of veterans or other potential students without formal education by our industry partners and other manufacturers.. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. In reviewing our results of operations, you should not focus on quarter-to-quarter comparisons.  Our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year.  Our revenues normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in total student population.  Student population varies as a result of new student enrollments, graduations and student attrition.  Historically, our schools have had lower student populations in our third fiscal quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year because fewer students are enrolled during the summer months.  Our expenses, however, do not generally vary at the same rate as changes in our student population and revenues and, as a result, such expenses do not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis.  We expect quarterly fluctuations in results of operations to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns.  Such patterns may change, however, as a result of acquisitions, new school openings, new program introductions and increased enrollments of adult students.  Additionally, our revenues for our first fiscal quarter are adversely affected by the fact that we do not recognize revenue during the calendar year-end holiday break, which falls primarily in that quarter.  These fluctuations may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.  As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock.. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by or under the supervision of our principal executive and principal financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Our internal control structure is also designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraud would be detected or prevented before our financial statements could be materially affected.. Because of inherent limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements.  Additionally, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that our controls may become inadequate as a result of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with our policies and procedures may deteriorate.. If our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, our historical financial statements could require restatement which could negatively impact our reputation and lead to a decline in our stock price.. Failure on our part to effectively identify, establish and operate additional schools or campuses could reduce our ability to implement our growth strategy.. As part of our business strategy we anticipate opening and operating new schools or campuses.  Establishing new schools or campuses poses unique challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and devote other resources that are different, and in some cases greater, than those required with respect to the operation of acquired schools.  Accordingly, when we open new schools, initial investments could reduce our profitability.  To open a new school or campus, we would be required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting commission approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner. 59. Table of Contents. that could significantly affect our growth plans.  Additionally, to be eligible for Title IV Program funding, a new school or campus would have to be certified by ED.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify suitable expansion opportunities to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate or that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new schools or campuses.  Our failure to effectively identify, establish, license, accredit, obtain necessary approvals and manage the operations of newly established schools or campuses could slow our growth and make any newly established schools or campuses more costly to operate than we have historically experienced.. We may be unable to successfully complete or integrate future acquisitions.. We may consider selective acquisitions in the future.  We may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or, even if we do, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our business.  Integration challenges include, among others, regulatory approvals, significant capital expenditures, assumption of known and unknown liabilities, our ability to control costs and our ability to integrate new personnel.  The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the senior management of the acquired schools, which could decrease the time that they devote to the day-to-day management of our business.  If we do not successfully address risks and challenges associated with acquisitions, including integration, future acquisitions could harm, rather than enhance, our operating performance.  Additionally, if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly.  A future acquisition could result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, an increase in interest expense, amortization expenses, goodwill and other intangible assets, charges relating to integration costs or an increase in the number of shares outstanding.  In addition, our acquisition of a school is a change of ownership of that school, which may result in the temporary suspension of that school's participation in federal student financial aid programs until it obtains ED's approval.  These results could have a negative effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition or result in dilution to current stockholders.. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, which may become impaired and subject to a write-down.. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment, which might result from the deterioration in the operating performance of the acquired business, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in the applicable laws or regulations and a variety of other circumstances. Any resulting impairment charge is recognized as an expense in the period in which impairment is identified.. Our goodwill resulted primarily from the acquisition of our motorcycle and marine education business in 1998. We recorded an impairment charge of $12.4 million related to the goodwill allocated to our MMI Phoenix, Arizona campus during the year ended September 30, 2015. The remaining $8.2 million of goodwill from this acquisition is allocated to our MMI Orlando, Florida campus that provides the related educational programs.  Additionally, we recorded $0.8 million of goodwill related to the acquisition of BrokenMyth Studios, LLC in February 2016. Our total recorded goodwill was $9.0 million as of September 30, 2017. We perform our annual goodwill impairment assessment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment, which might result from the deterioration in the operating performance of the acquired business, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in the applicable laws or regulations and a variety of other circumstances.  Actual experience may differ from the amounts included in our assessment, which could result in impairment of our goodwill in the future.. Our principal stockholder owns a significant percentage of our capital stock, is able to influence certain corporate matters and could in the future gain substantial control over our company.. As of September 30, 2017, Coliseum Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates (Coliseum) beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 14.6% of our outstanding common stock and 100% of our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, which votes on an as-converted basis subject to a voting cap, as described. 60. Table of Contents. below. The voting power of Coliseum, including the common stock and the as-converted preferred stock with the voting cap, is approximately 18.8% as of September 30, 2017.. Pursuant to the Certificate of Designations of Series A Preferred Stock (Certificate of Designations), the Series A Preferred Stock may be converted into common stock, subject to certain conditions. Until stockholder approval, as required under the listing standards of the NYSE, and approval of the applicable educational regulatory agencies (Required Approvals), including ED, is obtained, the Series A Preferred Stock beneficially owned by the holders of Series A Preferred Stock and their respective affiliates may only be converted into common stock to the extent that, after giving effect to such conversion, the amount of common stock the holder thereof together with its affiliates would beneficially own pursuant to such conversion, in the aggregate, is less than or equal to 4.99% of the common stock outstanding on the date of issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock (Conversion Cap). The Conversion Cap will not apply to the Series A Preferred Stock once we obtain the Required Approvals.. Holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to vote with the holders of shares of common stock and any other class or series similarly entitled to vote with the holders of common stock and not as a separate class, at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of our company, and may act by written consent in the same manner as the holders of common stock, on an as-converted basis. Prior to the receipt of the Required Approvals, the Series A Preferred Stock beneficially owned by each holder of Series A Preferred Stock, or any of its respective affiliates may only be voted to an extent not to exceed 4.99% of the aggregate voting power of all of our voting stock outstanding at the close of business on the issue date (Voting Cap).  Additionally, a majority of the voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock must approve certain significant actions of our company, such as (i) amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation or bylaws in a manner adverse to the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A Preferred Stock, (ii) the creation or issuance of a series of stock, or other security convertible into a series of stock, with equal or greater rights than the Series A Preferred Stock, (iii) the issuance of equity securities, or securities convertible into equity, at a price that is 25% below fair market value at the time of issuance, (iii) subject to certain exceptions, the incurrence of indebtedness, (iv) subject to certain exceptions, the sale or licensing of any material asset of our company, (v) subject to certain exceptions, the consummation of acquisitions (of stock or assets), (vi) subject to certain exceptions, the payment of certain dividends or distributions with respect to a series of stock junior to the Series A Preferred Stock, (vii) the voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our company if the Series A Preferred Stock would not have the option to receive the liquidation preference then in effect upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our company or, (viii) subject to certain exceptions, any merger, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification or other transaction in which substantially all of the common stock of our company is exchanged or converted into cash, securities or property and in which the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall not have the option to receive the full liquidation preference as a result of that transaction.. In the event that the Required Approvals are obtained in the future, Coliseum could gain substantial control over our company.  For example, if the Required Approvals had been obtained as of September 30, 2017, Coliseum's aggregate voting power would have increased from 18.8% to 53.6%. As a consequence, Coliseum would be able to control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors. The interests of Coliseum may not always coincide with the interests of our other stockholders. For instance, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price."
