[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We wish to caution each reader of this Form 10-K to consider the following factors and other factors discussed herein and in other past reports, including but not limited to prior year Form 10-K and Form 10-Q reports filed with the SEC.  Our business and results of operations could be materially affected by any of the following risks.  The factors discussed herein are not exhaustive. Therefore, the factors contained herein should be read together with other reports that we file with the SEC from time to time, which may supplement, modify, supersede, or update the factors listed in this document.. A substantial amount of our sales are derived from a limited number of customers.. Our five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 41% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017, and 42% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015.  The accounts receivable balance from these five customers comprised approximately 35% of total accounts receivable at December 31, 2017.  An adverse change in, or termination of, the relationship with one or more of our customers or market segments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 5. Our business is very competitive, and increased competition could reduce our sales.. We compete with domestic and foreign producers of specialty steel products.  In addition, many of the finished products sold by our customers are in direct competition with finished products manufactured by foreign sources, which may affect the demand for those customers' products.  Any competitive factors that adversely affect the market for finished products manufactured by us or our customers could indirectly adversely affect the demand for our semi-finished products.  Additionally, our products compete with products fashioned from alternative materials such as aluminum, composites and plastics, the production of which includes domestic and foreign enterprises.  Competition in our field is intense and is expected to continue to be so in the foreseeable future.  A majority of our business is not covered under long term supply contracts.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future.. A substantial amount of our sales are derived from the aerospace industry.. Approximately 55% of our sales and 42% of our tons shipped represented products sold to customers in the aerospace market in 2017.  The aerospace market is historically cyclical due to both external and internal market factors.  These factors include general economic conditions, supply chain fluctuations, diminished credit availability, airline profitability, demand for air travel, age of fleets, varying fuel and labor costs, price competition, new technology development and international and domestic political conditions such as military conflict and the threat of terrorism.  The length and degree of cyclical fluctuation can be influenced by any one or a combination of these factors and therefore are difficult to predict with certainty.  While the aerospace industry is currently experiencing growth, a downturn in the aerospace industry would adversely affect the demand for products and/or the prices at which we are able to sell our products, and our results of operations, business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Our business may be harmed by failure to develop, commercialize, market and sell new applications and new products.. We believe that our alloys and metallurgical manufacturing expertise provide us with a competitive advantage over other high-performance alloy producers.  Our ability to maintain this competitive advantage depends on our ability to continue to offer products that have equal or better performance characteristics than competing products at competitive prices.  Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to address the increasingly demanding needs of our customers by enhancing the properties of our existing alloys, by timely developing new applications for our existing products, and by timely developing, commercializing, marketing and selling new products.  If we are not successful in these efforts, or if our new products and product enhancements do not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected.. Our business requires continuing efforts to obtain new customer approvals on existing products and applications, which is a stringent, difficult process subject to each customer's varying approval methodology and preferences.  If we are not successful in these efforts, our business could be adversely affected.. We are dependent on the availability and price of raw materials and operating supplies.. We purchase carbon and stainless scrap metal and alloy additives, principally nickel, chrome, molybdenum, manganese and copper, for our melting operation.  A substantial portion of the alloy additives is available only from foreign sources, some of which are located in countries that may be subject to unstable political and economic conditions.  Those conditions might disrupt supplies or affect the prices of the raw materials.  We maintain sales price surcharges on certain of our products to help offset the impact of raw material price fluctuations.. We do not maintain long-term fixed-price supply agreements with any of our raw material suppliers.  If our supply of raw materials were interrupted, we might not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials, or obtain sufficient quantities of such materials at satisfactory prices, which, in either case, could adversely affect our results of operations.  In addition, significant volatility in the price of our principal raw materials could adversely affect our financial results and there can be no assurance that the raw material surcharge mechanism employed by us will completely offset immediate changes in our raw material costs.. 6. Our production processes require consumable operating supplies, such as electrodes, which have increased in price significantly compared to prior years.  Significant volatility in the price of our consumable operating supplies could adversely affect our financial results.. Our business requires substantial amounts of energy.. The manufacturing of specialty steel is an energy-intensive process and requires the ready availability of substantial amounts of electricity and natural gas, for which we negotiate competitive supply agreements.  While we believe that our energy agreements allow us to compete effectively within the specialty steel industry, the potential for increased costs exists during periods of high demand or supply disruptions.  We have a sales price surcharge to help offset the cost fluctuations.. We are subject to risks associated with global economic and market factors.. Our results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of our customers, which in turn is affected by global economic and market factors impacting the industries and markets that we serve.  We are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States and abroad that may affect the general economic climate, our performance and the demand of our customers.  We may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets deteriorate.  There can be no assurance that global economic and market conditions will not adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow or financial position in the future.. Our business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. We depend on the continued service, availability and ability to attract skilled personnel, including members of our executive management team, other management positions, and metallurgists, along with maintenance and production positions.  Our inability to attract and retain such people may adversely impact our ability to fill existing roles and support growth.  Attraction and retention of qualified personnel has become more challenging as the labor market tightens.. Further, the loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to perform until suitable replacements can be found.  The Company is currently using qualified temporary resources to maintain its effectiveness and internal control environment within the Finance function while a new Chief Financial Officer is being actively recruited.. Our business may be harmed by strikes or work stoppages.. At December 31, 2017, we had 513 employees, out of a total of 703, who were covered under collective bargaining agreements expiring at various dates in 2018 to 2022.  On March 4, 2016, the USW was certified as the exclusive bargaining representative for the hourly employees of our North Jackson facility.  The Company and the Union are currently negotiating the initial collective bargaining agreement for the North Jackson hourly employees.  There can be no assurance that we will be successful in timely concluding collective bargaining agreements with the USW to succeed the agreements that expire, in which case, we may experience strikes or work stoppages that may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our business may be harmed by failures on critical manufacturing equipment.. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon certain critical pieces of specialty steel making equipment, such as our 50-ton electric-arc furnace and AOD vessel, our ESR, VIM and VAR furnaces, our radial hydraulic forge and our universal rolling mill.  In the event a critical piece of equipment should become inoperative as a result of unexpected equipment failure, there can be no assurance that our operations would not be substantially curtailed, which may have a negative effect on our financial results.. 7. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to meet our debt service requirements or the covenants in our credit agreement or if interest rates increase.. We have debt upon which we are required to make scheduled interest and principal payments, and we may incur additional debt in the future.  A significant portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates that may increase in the future.  Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations, and our ability to refinance any of our indebtedness in the future if we determine that doing so would be advisable, will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions in the markets that we serve and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt or if interest rates increase, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  Our credit agreement, which provides for a $65.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility and a $30.0 million senior secured term loan facility, also requires us to comply with certain covenants.  A failure to comply with the covenants contained in the credit agreement could result in a default, which, if not waived by our lenders, could substantially increase our borrowing costs and result in acceleration of our debt.  As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with the covenants in our credit agreement.. We believe that our international sales are associated with various risks.. We conduct business with suppliers and customers in foreign countries which exposes us to risks associated with international business activities.  We could be significantly impacted by those risks, which include the potential for volatile economic and labor conditions, political instability, collecting accounts receivable and exchange rate fluctuations (which may affect sales revenue to international customers and the margins on international sales when converted into U.S. dollars).. If we are unable to protect our information technology infrastructure against service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security beaches, our operations could be disrupted.. We rely on information technology networks and systems to manage and support a variety of business activities, including procurement and supply chain, engineering support, and manufacturing.  Our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdown due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunications failures, user errors or catastrophic events.  In addition, security breaches could result in unauthorized disclosures of confidential information.  If our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our manufacturing process could be disrupted resulting in late deliveries or even no deliveries if there is a total shutdown.. Changes in tax rules and regulations, or interpretations thereof, may adversely affect our effective tax rates.. We are a U.S. based company with customers and suppliers in foreign countries.  We import various raw materials used in our production processes and we export goods to our foreign customers.  The United States, the European Commission, countries in the EU and other countries where we do business have been implemented and may consider further changes in relevant tax, border tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, that may unfavorably impact our effective tax rate or result in other costs to us.. Our business subjects us to risk of litigation claims, as a routine matter, and this risk increases the potential for a loss that might not be covered by insurance.. Litigation claims may relate to the conduct of our business, including claims relating to product liability, commercial disputes, employment actions, employee benefits, compliance with domestic and federal laws and personal injury.  Due to the uncertainties of litigation, we might not prevail on claims made against us in the lawsuits that we currently face, and additional claims may be made against us in the future.  The outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be determined adversely to us.  The resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 8"
