[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in the Corporation's common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Corporation's business. Before making an investment, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. Risks Relating to Recent Economic Conditions and Governmental Response Efforts. The Corporation's earnings are impacted by general business and economic conditions.. The Corporation's operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions; these conditions include long-term and short-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, values of real estate and other collateral and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. Negative changes in these general business and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. 6. Table of Contents. We cannot predict the effect of recent legislative and regulatory initiatives, and they could increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased compliance costs resulting from possible future consumer and fair lending regulations. Other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer, limit the fees we may charge, increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, change regulatory capital requirements (such as BASEL III), change deposit insurance assessments, and limit our ability to attract and maintain our executive officers, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. We borrow from the Federal Home Loan Bank and the Federal Reserve, and these lenders could modify or terminate their current programs which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability.. We utilize the FHLB for overnight borrowings and term advances; we also borrow from the Federal Reserve and from correspondent banks under our federal funds lines of credit. The amount loaned to us is generally dependent on the value of the collateral pledged as well as the FHLB's internal credit rating of the Bank. These lenders could reduce the percentages loaned against various collateral categories, could eliminate certain types of collateral and could otherwise modify or even terminate their loan programs, particularly to the extent they are required to do so, because of capital adequacy or other balance sheet concerns. Any change or termination of our borrowings from the FHLB, the Federal Reserve or correspondent banks would have an adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability.. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by other-than-temporary impairment charges relating to our investment portfolio.. We may be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities, including our investment in the FHLB, if they suffer declines in value that we consider other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including the lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, the absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in the business climate, adverse regulatory actions or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough, it could affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Significant impairment charges could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in the Bank not being classified as \"well-capitalized\" for regulatory purposes.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all.. Federal regulatory agencies have the authority to change the Corporation's and Bank's capital requirements. In addition, BASEL III and new accounting rules, such as Lease Accounting (ASU No. 2016-02) and CECL (ASU No. 2016-13) will have a negative impact of reducing regulatory capital ratios. Accordingly, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance.. Our customary sources of liquidity include, but are not limited to, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. Such sources of liquidity may not be available to us on acceptable terms or not available at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of our bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Market and Business. The Corporation's profitability is affected by economic conditions in Southeastern Pennsylvania and Southern New Jersey.. Unlike larger regional banks that operate in large geographies, the Corporation provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Bucks, Berks, Chester, Delaware, Lancaster, Lehigh, Montgomery, Northampton and Philadelphia counties in Pennsylvania and Atlantic and Cape May counties in New Jersey. Because of our geographic concentration, a downturn in the. 7. Table of Contents. local economy could make it more difficult to attract deposits and could cause higher rates of loss and delinquency on our loans than if the loans were more geographically diversified. Adverse economic conditions in the region, including, without limitation, declining real estate values, could cause our levels of nonperforming assets and loan losses to increase. Regional economic conditions have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans as scheduled. A sluggish economy could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation operates in a highly competitive industry and market area which could adversely impact its business and results of operations.. We face substantial competition in all phases of our businesses from a variety of different competitors. Our competitors, including commercial banks, community banks, savings institutions, credit unions, consumer finance companies, insurance companies, securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, money market mutual funds and other financial institutions, compete with lending and deposit-gathering services and insurance and wealth management services offered by us. Increased competition in our markets may result in reduced loans and deposits.. Many of these competing institutions have much greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Due to their size, many competitors can achieve larger economies of scale and may offer a broader range of products and services than we can. If we are unable to offer competitive products and services, our business may be negatively affected.. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation or tax structure as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured financial institutions. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. The banking business in our primary market areas is very competitive, and the level of competition facing us may increase further, which may limit our asset growth and financial results.. The Corporation's controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. Our management diligently reviews and updates the Corporation's internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any failure or undetected circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Potential acquisitions may disrupt the Corporation's business and dilute shareholder value.. We regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire and invest in banks and in other complementary businesses. As a result, we may engage in negotiations or discussions that, if they were to result in a transaction, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition, including short and long-term liquidity and capital structure. Our acquisition activities could be material to us. For example, we could issue additional shares of common stock in a purchase transaction, which could dilute current shareholders' ownership interest. These activities could require us to use a substantial amount of cash, other liquid assets, and/or incur debt. In addition, if goodwill recorded in connection with our prior or potential future acquisitions were determined to be impaired, then we would be required to recognize a charge against our earnings, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations during the period in which the impairment was recognized. Any potential charges for impairment related to goodwill would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity but would decrease shareholders' equity.. Our acquisition activities could involve a number of additional risks, including the risks of:. • incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions;. • using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to the target institution or its assets;. • the time and expense required to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses;. • creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations; and. • losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received.. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with potential acquisitions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 8. Table of Contents. The Corporation may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. We are dependent on the ability and experience of a number of key management personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the financial services industry, and the markets in which we offer products and services. The loss of one or more senior executives or key managers may have an adverse effect on our businesses. In 2016, the Corporation entered into change in control agreements with certain executive officers. As we continue to grow businesses, our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage, and retain other qualified management personnel.. If we lost a significant portion of our low-cost deposits, it would negatively impact our liquidity and profitability.. Our profitability depends in part on our success in attracting and retaining a stable base of low-cost deposits. At December 31, 2017, 29% of our deposit base was comprised of noninterest-bearing deposits, of which 20% consisted of business deposits, which are primarily operating accounts for businesses, and 9% consisted of consumer deposits. The competition for these deposits in our markets is strong and customers are increasingly seeking investments with higher interest rates that are safe, including the purchase of U.S. Treasury securities and other government-guaranteed obligations, as well as the establishment of accounts at the largest, most-well capitalized banks. If we were to lose a significant portion of our low-cost deposits, it would negatively impact our liquidity and profitability.. The Corporation's information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.. The Corporation relies heavily on information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Corporation's customer relationship management and general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. The Corporation has policies and procedures designed with the intention to prevent or limit the effect of any failure, interruption, or breach in our security systems. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions, or breaches in security could expose the Corporation to reputation risk, civil litigation, regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation continually encounters technological change.. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to effectively embrace technology efficiencies to better serve customers and reduce costs. Failure to keep pace with technological change could potentially have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation is subject to claims and litigation.. Customer claims and other legal actions, whether founded or unfounded, could result in financial or reputation damage and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if such claims are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Corporation.. Natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could negatively impact the Corporation.. Natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Corporation's ability to conduct business. In addition, such events could affect the stability of the Corporation's deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Corporation to incur additional expenses. Our management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures that are expected to mitigate events related to natural or man-made disasters; however, the occurrence of any such event and the impact of an overall economic decline resulting from such a disaster could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporation depends on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a customer's audited financial statements conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. Our financial. 9. Table of Contents. condition, results of operations and capital could be negatively impacted to the extent we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers, fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner, or rely on financial statements that do not comply with U.S. GAAP or are materially misleading.. Risks Related to the Banking Industry. The Corporation is subject to interest rate risk.. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent on our net interest income. Like most financial institutions, we are affected by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Although we believe we have implemented strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial and prolonged change in market interest rates could adversely affect our operating results.. Net interest income may decline in a particular period if:. • In a declining interest rate environment, more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature, or. • In a rising interest rate environment, more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets re-price or mature.. Our net interest income may decline based on our exposure to a difference in short-term and long-term interest rates. If the difference between the short-term and long-term interest rates shrinks or disappears, the difference between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly resulting in a decrease in net interest income. In addition to these factors, if market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit increases in the interest rates on adjustable rate loans, thus reducing our net interest income. Also, certain adjustable rate loans re-price based on lagging interest rate indices. This lagging effect may also negatively impact our net interest income when general interest rates continue to rise periodically. Increasing interest rates may also reduce the fair value of our fixed rate investment securities negatively impacting shareholders' equity.. The Corporation is subject to lending risk.. Risks associated with lending activities include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and economic conditions, which may adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans and the value of the associated collateral. Various laws and regulations also affect our lending activities, and failure to comply with such applicable laws and regulations could subject the Corporation to enforcement actions and civil monetary penalties.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 85.2% of our loan and lease portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural, commercial real estate and construction loans and leases which are generally perceived as having more risk of default than residential real estate and consumer loans. These types of loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers' ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, as well as the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. An increase in nonperforming loans and leases could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans and leases, an increase in the provision for possible loan and lease losses, and an increase in loan and lease charge-offs. The risk of loan and lease losses increases if the economy worsens.. Commercial business loans and leases are typically based on the borrowers' ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. The collateral securing the loans and leases often depreciates over time, is difficult to appraise and liquidate and fluctuates in value based on the success of the business. In addition, many commercial business loans have a variable rate which is indexed off of a floating rate such as Prime or LIBOR. If interest rates rise, the borrower's debt service requirement may increase, negatively impacting the borrower's ability to service their debt.. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property's value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest). During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan, borrower liquidation of collateral or by seizure of collateral. Included in real estate-construction is track development financing. Risk factors related to track development financing include the demand for residential housing and the real estate valuation market. When projects move slower than anticipated, the properties may have significantly lower values than when the original underwriting was completed, resulting in lower collateral values to support the loan. Extended time frames also cause the interest carrying cost. 10. Table of Contents. for projects to be higher than the builder projected, negatively impacting the builder's profit and cash flow and, therefore, their ability to make principal and interest payments.. Commercial real estate loans secured by owner-occupied properties are dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's business. If the operating company suffers difficulties in terms of sales volume and/or profitability, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Loans secured by properties where repayment is dependent upon payment of rent by third party tenants or the sale of the property may be impacted by loss of tenants, lower lease rates needed to attract new tenants or the inability to sell a completed project in a timely fashion and at a profit.. Commercial business, commercial real estate, and construction loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. Our underwriting, review, and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans.. The Corporation's allowance for possible loan and lease losses may be insufficient, and an increase in the allowance would reduce earnings.. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses. The allowance is established through a provision for loan and lease losses based on management's evaluation of the risks inherent in our loan portfolio and the general economy. The allowance is based upon a number of factors, including the size of the loan and lease portfolio, asset classifications, economic trends, industry experience and trends, industry and geographic concentrations, estimated collateral values, management's assessment of the credit risk inherent in the portfolio, historical loan and lease loss experience and loan underwriting policies. In addition, we evaluate all loans and leases identified as problem loans and augment the allowance based upon our estimation of the potential loss associated with those problem loans and leases. Additions to our allowance for loan and lease losses decrease our net income.. If the evaluation we perform in connection with establishing loan and lease loss reserves is wrong, our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results.. The regulators, in reviewing our loan and lease portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may from time to time require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, thereby negatively affecting our earnings, financial condition and capital ratios at that time. Moreover, additions to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and real estate market conditions, new information regarding existing loans and leases, identification of additional problem loans and leases and other factors, both within and outside of our control. Additions to the allowance could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. The Corporation is required to adopt the FASB's accounting standard which requires measurement of certain financial assets (including loans) using the current expected credit losses (CECL) beginning in calendar year 2020.. Current GAAP requires an incurred loss methodology for recognizing credit losses that delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. The FASB's amendment replaces the current incurred loss methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonableness and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. The Corporation is in the process of evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on the Corporation's financial statements; however, it is anticipated that the allowance will increase upon the adoption of CECL and that the increased allowance level will have the effect of decreasing shareholders' equity and the Corporation's and Bank's regulatory capital ratios.. Changes in economic conditions and the composition of our loan portfolio could lead to higher loan charge-offs or an increase in our provision for loan losses and may reduce our net income.. Changes in national and regional economic conditions could impact our loan portfolios. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities we serve. Weakness in the market areas we serve could depress our earnings and consequently our financial condition because customers may not demand our products or services, borrowers may not be able to repay their loans, the value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may decline and the quality of our loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter three scenarios could require us to charge off a higher percentage of our loans and/or increase our provision for loan and lease losses, which would reduce our net income and could require us to raise capital.. The Corporation is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Corporation may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may. 11. Table of Contents. be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. Our policies and procedures require environmental factors to be considered during the loan application process. An environmental review is performed before initiating any commercial foreclosure action; however, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. Possible remediation costs and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. The Corporation is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.. We are subject to Federal Reserve Board regulation. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by our primary federal regulators, the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, and by the FDIC, the regulating authority that insures customer deposits. Also, as a member of the FHLB, the Bank must comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the FHLB. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our shareholders. The Bank's activities are also regulated under consumer protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit, and other activities. A large claim against the Bank under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In prior years, financial reform legislation has been enacted by Congress changing the bank regulatory framework, creating an independent consumer protection bureau and establishing more stringent capital standards for financial institutions and their holding companies. The legislation has, and may continue to result, in new regulations including those that affect lending, funding, trading and investment activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. Such additional regulation and oversight could have a material and adverse impact on us.. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as \"disintermediation,\" could result in the loss of fee income as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to the Wealth Management and Insurance Industries. Revenues and profitability from our wealth management business may be adversely affected by any reduction in assets under management and supervision as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which could reduce trust, investment advisory and brokerage and other servicing fees earned.. The wealth management business derives the majority of its revenue from noninterest income which consists of trust, investment advisory and brokerage and other servicing fees. Substantial revenues are generated from investment management contracts with clients. Under these contracts, the investment advisory fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of assets under management. Assets under management and supervision may decline for various reasons including declines in the market value of the assets in the funds and accounts managed or supervised, which could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in specific market segments. Assets under management may also decrease due to redemptions and other withdrawals by clients or termination of contracts. This could be in response to adverse market conditions or in pursuit of other investment opportunities.. The wealth management industry is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by regulators, and any enforcement action or adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability.. The wealth management business is subject to regulation by a number of regulatory agencies that are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of customers participating in those markets.  In the event of non-compliance with an applicable regulation, governmental regulators, including the SEC, and FINRA, may institute administrative or judicial proceedings that may result in censure, fines, civil penalties, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the deregistration or suspension of the non-compliant broker-dealer or investment adviser or other adverse consequences. The imposition of any such penalties or orders could have a material adverse effect on the wealth management segment's operating results and financial condition. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations. Regulatory changes have imposed and may continue to impose additional costs, which could adversely impact our profitability.. 12. Table of Contents. Revenues and profitability from our insurance business may be adversely affected by market conditions, which could reduce insurance commissions and fees earned.. The revenues of our fee based insurance business are derived primarily from commissions from the sale of insurance policies, which commissions are generally calculated as a percentage of the policy premium. These insurance policy commissions can fluctuate as insurance carriers from time to time increase or decrease the premiums on the insurance products we sell. Due to the cyclical nature of the insurance market and the impact of other market and macro economic conditions on insurance premiums, commission levels may vary. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may adversely impact our profitability.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. An investment in the Corporation's common stock is not an insured deposit.. The Corporation's common stock is not a bank deposit, is not insured by the FDIC or any other deposit insurance fund, and is subject to investment risk, including the loss of some or all of your investment. Our common stock is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any public company.. The Corporation's stock price can be volatile.. The Corporation's stock price can fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, some of which are not under our control. These factors could cause the Corporation's stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. These factors include, but are not limited to:. • our past and future dividend practice;. • our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects;. • quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets;. • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors;. • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance;. • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us;. • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities;. • the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and developments with respect to financial institutions generally; and. • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility and other geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events.. The Corporation's common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol \"UVSP\"; the trading volume has historically been less than that of larger financial services companies. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for investors to sell their common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive.. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the relatively low trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions.. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders.. Certain provisions in the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as federal banking laws, regulatory approval requirements, and Pennsylvania law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Corporation, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the Corporation's shareholders.. There may be future sales or other dilution of the Corporation's equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. The Corporation is generally not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common. 13. Table of Contents. stock or preferred stock or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or that represent the right to receive common stock or the exercise of such securities could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of offerings or because of sales of shares of our common stock made after offerings or the perception that such sales could occur. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our shareholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us.. The Corporation relies on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue.. The Corporation is a bank holding company and our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries from which we receive dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to legal and regulatory limitations, profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. The ability of the Bank to pay cash dividends to the Corporation is limited by its obligation to maintain sufficient capital and by other restrictions on its cash dividends that are applicable to state member banks in the Federal Reserve System. If the Bank is not permitted to pay cash dividends to the Corporation, it is unlikely that we would be able to pay cash dividends on our common stock.. 14. Table of Contents"
