[1] "ITEM 1A:  RISK FACTORS. Set forth below, and elsewhere in this Report and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Report.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our business is dependent upon a number of general economic and business factors that may adversely affect our results of operations. These factors include significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, excess capacity in the transportation and logistics industry, surpluses in the market for used equipment, interest rates, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors.. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address any downward pricing pressures or other factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete with other carriers.. Further, we are affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries, such as the automotive industry, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may also adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay for our services.. Deterioration in the United States and world economies could exacerbate any difficulties experienced by our customers and suppliers in obtaining financing, which, in turn, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We operate in the highly competitive and fragmented transportation and logistics industry, and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address factors that may adversely affect our revenue and costs relative to our competitors.. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include the following:. •  we compete with many other truckload carriers and logistics companies of varying sizes, some of which have more equipment, a broader coverage network, a wider range of services and greater capital resources than we do;. •  some of our competitors periodically reduce their rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase rates, maintain our operating margins or maintain significant growth in our business;. •  many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called \"core carriers\" as approved service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected;. •  some companies hire lead logistics providers to manage their logistics operations, and these lead logistics providers may hire logistics providers on a non-neutral basis which may reduce the number of business opportunities available to us;. 8. •  many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers and providers for their shipping and logistic service needs, and this process may result in the loss of some of our business to competitors and/or price reductions;. •  the trend toward consolidation in the trucking and third-party logistics industries may create other large providers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size and with whom we may have difficulty competing;. •  advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher rates to cover the cost of these investments;. •  competition from Internet-based and other brokerage companies may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and freight rates;. •  economies of scale that may be passed on to smaller providers by procurement aggregation providers may improve the ability of smaller providers to compete with us;. •  some areas of our service coverage requires trucks with engines no older than 2011 in order to comply with environmental rules; and. •  an inability to continue to access capital markets to finance equipment acquisition could put us at a competitive disadvantage.. Our revenue is somewhat dependent on North American automotive industry production volume, and may be negatively affected by future downturns in North American automobile production.. A significant portion of our larger customers are concentrated in the North American automotive industry. For customers generating annual revenues over $100,000, 40% of our revenues were derived from customers in the North American automotive industry during 2017. Our business and growth largely depend on continued demand for its services from customers in this industry.  Any future downturns in North American automobile production, which also impacts our steel and metals customers, could similarly affect our revenues in future periods.. Our business derives a large portion of revenue from a few major customers, and the loss of any one or more of them as customers, or a reduction in their operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A large portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of major customers concentrated in the automotive, steel and metals, and energy industries. Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 40% of our operating revenues during 2017. Our contracts with customers generally contain cancellation clauses, and there can be no assurance that these customers will continue to utilize our services or that they will continue at the same levels. Further, there can be no assurance that these customers will not be affected by a future downturn in demand, which would result in a reduction in their operations and corresponding need for our services. Moreover, our customers may individually lose market share, apart from general economic trends. If our major customers lose U.S. market share, they may have less need for services. A reduction in or termination of services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in the price and availability of diesel fuel.. Diesel fuel represents a significant operating expense for the Company, and we do not currently hedge against the risk of diesel fuel price increases. An increase in diesel fuel prices or diesel fuel taxes, or any change in federal or state regulations that results in such an increase, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results to the extent we are unable to recoup such increases from customers in the form of increased freight rates or through fuel surcharges. Historically, we have been able to offset, to a certain extent, diesel fuel price increases through fuel surcharges to our customers, but we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so in the future. We continuously monitor the components of our pricing, including base freight rates and fuel surcharges, and address individual account profitability issues with our customers when necessary. While we have historically been able to adjust our pricing to help offset changes to the cost of diesel fuel through changes to base rates and/or fuel surcharges, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so in the future.. 9. Difficulty in attracting drivers could affect our profitability and ability to grow.. The transportation industry routinely experiences difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors, resulting in intense competition for drivers. We have from time to time experienced under-utilization and increased expenses due to a shortage of qualified drivers. If we are unable to attract drivers when needed or contract with independent contractors when needed, we could be required to further adjust our driver compensation packages, increase driver recruiting efforts, or let trucks sit idle, any of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. If we are unable to retain our key employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. We are highly dependent upon the services of our key employees and executive officers. The loss of any of their services could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth. We cannot assure that we will be able to do so.. A significant labor dispute involving us or one or more of our customers, or that could otherwise affect our operations, could reduce our revenues and harm our profitability.. A substantial number of our employees and of the employees of our largest customers are members of industrial trade unions and are employed under the terms of collective bargaining agreements. Each of our unionized facilities has a separate agreement with the union that represents the workers at only that facility. Labor disputes involving either us or our customers could affect our operations. If the UAW and our automotive customers and their suppliers are unable to negotiate new contracts and our customers' plants experience slowdowns or closures as a result, our revenue and profitability could be negatively impacted. A labor dispute involving another supplier to our customers that results in a slowdown or closure of our customers' plants to which we provide services could also have a material adverse effect on our business. Significant increases in labor costs as a result of the renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements could also be harmful to our business and our profitability. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 19% of our employees in the United States, Canada and Colombia, and 95% of our employees in Mexico were members of unions and subject to collective bargaining agreements.. In addition, strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees may affect our ability to meet our customers' needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions may adversely affect our ability to provide service. We may face permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service. The terms of our future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations.. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings.. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. The Company is self-insured for health and workers' compensation insurance coverage up to certain limits. If medical costs continue to increase, or if the severity or number of claims increase, and if we are unable to offset the resulting increases in expenses with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected.. We face litigation risks that could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business.. We face litigation risks regarding a variety of issues, including without limitation, accidents involving our trucks and employees, alleged violations of federal and state labor and employment laws, securities laws, environmental liability and other matters. These proceedings may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. The defense of such lawsuits could result in significant expense and the diversion of our management's time and attention from the operation of our business. In recent years, several insurance companies have stopped offering coverage to trucking companies as a result of increases in the severity of automobile liability claims and higher costs of settlements and verdicts. This trend could adversely affect our ability to obtain suitable insurance coverage or could significantly increase our cost for obtaining such coverage, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Costs we incur to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of these claims may not be covered by insurance or could exceed the amount of that coverage or increase our insurance costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. 10. Purchase price increases for new revenue equipment and/or decreases in the value of used revenue equipment could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. During the last decade, the purchase price of new revenue equipment has increased significantly as equipment manufacturers recover increased materials costs and engine design costs resulting from compliance with increasingly stringent EPA engine emission standards. Additional EPA emission mandates in the future could result in higher purchase prices of revenue equipment which could result in higher than anticipated depreciation expenses. If we were unable to offset any such increase in expenses with freight rate increases, our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. If the market price for used equipment continues to decline, then we could incur substantial losses upon disposition of our revenue equipment which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect our liquidity and profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms.. The transportation and logistics industry is capital intensive. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations in the future, we may have to limit our growth, enter into unfavorable financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. We have a significant amount of debt, which could restrict our growth, place us at a competitive disadvantage or otherwise materially adversely affect our financial health.. Our significant debt levels could have important consequences such as the following:. •  impair our ability to obtain additional future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate expenses;. •  limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business due to the necessity of dedicating a substantial portion of these funds for payments on our indebtedness;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. •  make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;. •  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our debt and other obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to our ability to implement our strategic initiatives, prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service and other obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay expansion plans and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. We cannot provide any assurance that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient to pay our debt obligations when they become due. We also cannot provide assurance that we would be able to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure our debt or other obligations if necessary or, even if we were able to take such actions, that we could do so on terms that are acceptable to us.. Disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. If cash from operations is not sufficient, we may be required to rely on the capital and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced during recent years, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facilities. Our access to funds under the credit facilities is dependent on the ability of banks to meet their funding commitments. A bank may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time.. 11. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. We have substantial fixed costs and, as a result, our operating income fluctuates disproportionately with changes in our net sales.. A significant portion of our expenses are fixed costs that that neither increase nor decrease proportionately with sales. There can be no assurance that we would be able to reduce our fixed costs proportionately in response to a decline in our sales and therefore our competitiveness could be significantly impacted. As a result, a decline in our sales would result in a higher percentage decline in our income from operations and net income.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The U.S. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, or FMCSA, and various state and local agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and insurance requirements. Our owner-operators must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the FMCSA, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. There also are regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specifications of equipment and product handling requirements. These measures could disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries and we may fail to meet the needs of our customers. The cost of complying with these regulatory measures, or any future measures, could have a materially adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. A determination by regulators that owner-operators are employees, rather than independent contractors, could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs.. Tax and other regulatory authorities often seek to assert that independent contractors in the transportation service industry, such as our owner-operators, are employees rather than independent contractors. There can be no assurance that these interpretations and tax laws that consider these persons independent contractors will not change or that these authorities will not successfully assert this position. If our owner-operators are determined to be our employees, that determination could materially increase our exposure under a variety of federal and state tax, workers' compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort laws, as well as our potential liability for employee benefits. In addition, such changes may be applied retroactively, and if so, we may be required to pay additional amounts to compensate for prior periods. Any of the above increased costs would adversely affect our business and operating results.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"Tax Act\"). The new law requires complex computations not previously required by U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the new law and the accounting for such provisions require preparation and analysis of information not previously required or regularly produced. In addition, the U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in future periods. Accordingly, while we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the new law in our accompanying audited financial statements, further regulatory or GAAP accounting guidance for the law, our further analysis on the application of the law, and refinement of our initial estimates and calculations could materially change our current provisional estimates, which could in turn materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. There are also likely to be significant future impacts that these tax reforms will have on our future financial results and our business strategies. In addition, there is a risk that states or foreign jurisdictions may amend their tax laws in response to these tax reforms, which could have a material impact on our future results.. 12. Our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors.. Our productivity may decrease during the winter season when severe winter weather impedes operations. Also, some shippers may reduce their shipments after the winter holiday season. At the same time, operating expenses may increase and fuel efficiency may decline due to engine idling during periods of inclement weather. Harsh weather conditions generally also result in higher accident frequency, increased freight claims, and higher equipment repair expenditures.  Generally, demand for our value-added services delivered to existing customers increases during the second calendar quarter of each year as a result of the automotive industry's spring selling season and decreases during the third quarter of each year due to the impact of scheduled OEM customer plant shutdowns in July for vacations and changeovers in production lines for new model years. Our value-added services business is also impacted in the fourth quarter by plant shutdowns during the December holiday period.. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties.. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm-water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. In prior years, we also maintained bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at two of our facilities. Our operations may involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability.. We may incur additional operating expenses or liabilities as a result of potential future requirements to address climate change issues.. Federal, state and local governments, as well as some of our customers, are beginning to respond to global warming issues. This increased focus on sustainability may result in new legislation or regulations and customer requirements that could negatively affect us as we may incur additional costs or be required to make changes to our operations in order to comply with any new regulations or customer requirements. Legislation or regulations that potentially impose restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by-product of burning fossil fuels such as those used in the Company's trucks, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. More specifically, legislative or regulatory actions related to climate change could adversely impact the Company by increasing our fuel costs and reducing fuel efficiency and could result in the creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances, or required equipment upgrades. Any of these factors could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs. In addition, revenues could decrease if we are unable to meet regulatory or customer sustainability requirements. These additional costs, changes in operations, or loss of revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business may be disrupted by natural disasters and severe weather conditions causing supply chain disruptions.. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers or could damage or destroy infrastructure necessary to transport products as part of the supply chain. Specifically, these events may damage or destroy or assets, disrupt fuel supplies, increase fuel costs, disrupt freight shipments or routes, and affect regional economies. As a result, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to provide logistics and transportation services; disrupt or prevent our ability to perform functions at the corporate level; and/or otherwise impede our ability to continue business operations in a continuous manner consistent with the level and extent of business activities prior to the occurrence of the unexpected event, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations or make our results more volatile.. 13. Our information technology systems are subject to certain cyber risks and disasters that are beyond our control.. We depend heavily on the proper functioning and availability of our information, communications, and data processing systems, including operating and financial reporting systems, in operating our business. Our systems and those of our technology and communications providers are vulnerable to interruptions caused by natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication and internet failures, cyber-attack, and other events beyond our control. Accordingly, information security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us.. Although our information systems are protected through physical and software security as well as redundant backup systems, they remain susceptible to cyber security risks. Some of our software systems are utilized by third parties who provide outsourced processing services which may increase the risk of a cyber-security incident.. A successful cyber-attack or catastrophic natural disaster could significantly affect our operating and financial systems and could temporarily disrupt our ability to provide required services to our customers, impact our ability to manage our operations and perform vital financial processes, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to certain risks arising from doing business in Mexico.. As we continue to grow our business in Mexico, we are subject to greater risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in foreign currencies, changes in the economic strength of Mexico, difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights, burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export and import laws, and social, political, and economic instability. We also face additional risks associated with our Mexico business, including potential restrictive trade policies and imposition of any import or export tariffs, taxes, duties or fees. If we are unable to address business concerns related to our international operations in a timely and cost efficient manner, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. The agreement permitting cross border movements for both United States and Mexican based carriers in the United States and Mexico presents additional risks in the form of potential increased competition and the potential for increased congestion in our lanes that cross the border between countries.. Our business may be harmed by terrorist attacks, future war or anti-terrorism measures.. In order to prevent terrorist attacks, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to follow various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Our international operations in Canada and Mexico may be affected significantly if there are any disruptions or closures of border traffic due to security measures. Such measures may have costs associated with them, which, in connection with the transportation services we provide, we or our owner-operators could be forced to bear. In addition, war or risk of war also may have an adverse effect on the economy. A decline in economic activity could adversely affect our revenue or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war also could affect our ability to raise capital. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future.. We may be unable to successfully integrate businesses we acquire into our operations.. Integrating businesses we acquire may involve unanticipated delays, costs or other operational or financial problems. Successful integration of the businesses we acquire depends on a number of factors, including our ability to transition acquired companies to our management information systems. In integrating businesses we acquire, we may not achieve expected economies of scale or profitability or realize sufficient revenues to justify our investment. We also face the risk that an unexpected problem at one of the companies we acquire will require substantial time and attention from senior management, diverting management's attention from other aspects of our business. We cannot be certain that our management and operational controls will be able to support us as we grow.. 14. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Because Matthew T. Moroun and Manuel J. Moroun hold a controlling interest in us, the influence of our public shareholders over significant corporate actions is limited, and we are not subject to certain corporate governance standards that apply to other publicly traded companies.. As of December 31, 2017, Matthew T. Moroun, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, and Manuel J. Moroun, a member of our Board of Directors, together own approximately 71% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, the Moroun family has the power to:. •  control all matters submitted to our shareholders;. •  elect our directors;. •  adopt, extend or remove any anti-takeover provisions that are available to us; and. •  exercise control over our business, policies and affairs.. This concentration of ownership could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Our ability to engage in significant transactions, such as a merger, acquisition or liquidation, will require the consent of the Moroun family. Conflicts of interest could arise between us and the Moroun family, and any conflict of interest may be resolved in a manner that does not favor us. Accordingly, the Moroun family could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements of which our other shareholders would not approve or make decisions with which they may disagree. Because of the level of ownership held by the Moroun family, we have elected to be treated as a controlled company in accordance with the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. Accordingly, we are not required to comply with NASDAQ Stock Market rules which would otherwise require a majority of our board to be comprised of independent directors and require our board to have a compensation committee and a nominating and corporate governance committee comprised of independent directors.. The Moroun family may continue to retain control of us for the foreseeable future and may decide not to enter into a transaction in which shareholders would receive consideration for our common stock that is much higher than the then-current market price of our common stock. In addition, the Moroun family could elect to sell a controlling interest in us to a third-party and our other shareholders may not be able to participate in such transaction or, if they are able to participate in such a transaction, such shareholders may receive less than the then current fair market value of their shares. Any decision regarding their ownership of us that the Moroun family may make at some future time will be in their absolute discretion, subject to applicable laws and fiduciary duties.. Our stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors.. Although shares of our common stock are traded on the NASDAQ Global Market, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger transportation and logistics companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the daily average trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of the common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Additionally, low trading volumes may limit a shareholder's ability to sell shares of our common stock.. Our ability to pay regular dividends on our common stock is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, any covenants included in our credit facilities any legal or contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors the Board of Directors deems relevant.. We have adopted a cash dividend policy which anticipates a total annual dividend of $0.42 per share of common stock. However, the payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other things, on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, any covenants included in our credit facilities, any legal or contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors the Board of Directors deem relevant. As a consequence of these limitations and restrictions, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our common stock. Additionally, any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 15. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws have, and under Michigan law are subject to, provisions that could deter or prevent a change of control.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a proposed takeover of our Company. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company or an acquisition of our Company at a price that our shareholders may find attractive. These provisions also may discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include:. •  a requirement that special meetings of our shareholders may be called only by our Board of Directors, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, our Chief Executive Officer or the holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock;. •  advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations;. •  the authority of our Board of Directors to issue, without shareholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine, including in connection with our implementation of any shareholders rights plan; and. •  an exclusive forum bylaw provision requiring that any derivative action brought on behalf of the corporation, any action asserting a claim of breach of a legal or fiduciary duty and any similar claim under the Michigan Business Corporation Act or our articles of incorporation must be brought exclusively in the Circuit Court of the County of Macomb in the State of Michigan or the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division.. In addition, certain provisions of Michigan law that apply to us could discourage or prevent a change of control or acquisition of our Company."
