[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. We are subject to regional, national and global economic conditions. A decline in economic conditions throughout the United States could reduce demand for our products.. We may be impacted by a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar. We purchase a variety of raw materials and finished goods from sources around the world and export certain products. The impact of a change in U.S. dollar exchange rates would impact our import purchases and export sales, which totaled $132.6 million and $110.8 million, respectively, in 2017.  In addition, many of our industrial customers export their products.. We are subject to fluctuations in the price of lumber. We experience significant fluctuations in the cost of commodity lumber products from primary producers (the \"Lumber Market\"). A variety of factors over which we have no control, including government and environmental regulations, weather conditions, economic conditions, and natural disasters, impact the cost of lumber products and our selling prices. While we attempt to minimize our risk from severe price fluctuations, substantial, prolonged trends in lumber prices can affect our sales, cost of materials, and gross profits. Our products are generally priced to the customer based on a quoted, fixed selling price or \"indexed\" to the Lumber Market with a fixed dollar adder to cover conversion costs and profit. The impact on our profitability from changes in lumber prices is discussed in the \"Historical Lumber Prices\"  and \"Impact of the Lumber Market on Our Operating Results\" captions of our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section under Item 7 of this Form 10 - K. Our lumber costs as a percentage of gross sales were 49.1%, 48.4%, and 48.9% in 2017, 2016,  and 2015, respectively.. Our growth may be limited by the markets we serve, including our construction market which is highly cyclical.  Our sales growth is dependent, in part, upon the growth of the markets we serve. If our markets do not achieve anticipated growth, or if we fail to maintain our market share, financial results could be impaired.. A significant portion of our sales are concentrated with one customer. Our sales to The Home Depot comprised 19% of our total sales in 2017, 20% in 2016, and 19% in 2015.. Economic and credit market conditions impact our ability to collect a greater percentage of our receivables. Economic and credit conditions may impact our bad debt expense. We continue to monitor our customers' credit profiles carefully and make changes in our terms when necessary in response to this risk. Bad debt expense as a percentage of sales was 0.03%, 0.06%, and 0.05% in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.. We may be impacted by vertical integration strategies. In certain markets and product lines, our customers or vendors could pursue vertical integration strategies that could have an adverse effect on our sales. We strive to add value and be a low-cost producer while maintaining competitive pricing in each of our markets to mitigate this risk.. We may be impacted by excess capacity among suppliers. There is excess capacity among suppliers of certain products in some of the markets we serve. Our selling prices and gross margins have been and are likely to continue to be impacted by this excess capacity.. Our growth may be limited by our ability to make successful acquisitions. A key component of our growth strategy is to complete business combinations. Business combinations involve inherent risks, including assimilation and successfully managing growth. While we conduct extensive due diligence and have taken steps to ensure successful assimilation, factors beyond our control could influence the results of these acquisitions.. 5. We may be adversely affected by the impact of environmental and safety regulations. We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that we are at all times in complete compliance with all of these requirements. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental regulations. If additional laws and regulations are enacted, which restrict our ability to manufacture and market our products, including our treated lumber products, it could adversely affect our sales and profits. Changes in the interpretation of existing laws could also adversely impact our financial results.. The current version of federal health care legislation may significantly increase our costs. The federal health care legislation enacted in 2010 and future regulations called for under the legislation may have a significant cost implication for our company. Our total health care costs totaled approximately $58.9 million, $52.7 million, and $41.3 million in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.. Seasonality and weather conditions could adversely affect us. Some aspects of our business are seasonal in nature and results of operations vary from quarter to quarter. In addition, the majority of our products sold to the Retail and Construction markets are used or installed in outdoor construction applications; therefore, short-term sales volume, productivity and gross profits can be negatively affected by adverse weather conditions, particularly in our first and fourth quarters.. Inbound and outbound transportation costs represent a significant part of our cost structure. An increase in fuel and other operating expenses will significantly increase our costs. While we attempt to pass these costs along to our customers, there can be no assurance that they would agree to these price increases. Our total inbound and outbound transportation costs were approximately 9.0%, 9.6%, and 9.9% of sales in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.. New alternatives may be developed to replace traditional treated wood products. The manufacturers of wood preservatives continue to develop new preservatives. While we believe treated products are reasonably priced relative to alternative products such as composites or vinyl, new alternatives may impact the sales of treated wood products. In addition, new preservatives could increase our cost of treating products in the future. See Footnote N \"Segment Reporting\" within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for our sales by product category.. Cybersecurity breaches could interfere with operations. We rely upon information technology systems and network products and the secure operation of these systems and products.  Despite security measures, these systems and products may be vulnerable to physical damage, hackers, computer viruses, or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, vendors, or customers.  We have experienced such events in the past and, although past events were immaterial, future events may occur and may be material."
