[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. Operating Factors. In areas where we purchase leaf tobacco directly from farmers, we bear the risk that the tobacco we receive will not meet quality and quantity requirements.. When we contract directly with tobacco farmers or tobacco farmer cooperatives, which is the method we use to purchase tobacco in most countries, we bear the risk that the tobacco delivered may not meet customer quality and quantity requirements.  If the tobacco does not meet such market requirements, we may not be able to fill all of our customers' orders, and such failure would have an adverse effect on profitability and results of operations. In a contract market our obligation is to purchase the entire tobacco plant, which encompasses many leaf styles, therefore, we also have a risk that not all of that production will be readily marketable at prices that support acceptable margins.  In addition, in many foreign countries where we purchase tobacco directly from farmers, we provide them with financing.  Unless we receive marketable tobacco that meets the quality and quantity specifications of our customers, we bear the risk that we will not be able to fully recover our crop advances or recover them in a reasonable period of time.. The leaf tobacco industry is competitive, and we are heavily reliant on a few large customers.. We are one of two major independent global competitors in the leaf tobacco industry, both of whom are reliant upon a few large customers.  The loss of one of those large customers or a significant decrease in their demand for our products or services could significantly decrease our sales of products or services, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  The competition among leaf tobacco suppliers and dealers is based on the ability to meet customer requirements in the buying, processing, and financing of tobacco, and on the price charged for products and services.  We believe that we consistently meet our customers' requirements and charge competitive prices.  Since we rely upon a few significant customers, the consolidation or failure of any of these large customers, or a significant increase in their vertical integration, could contribute to a significant decrease in our sales of products and services.. We compete for both the purchase and sale of leaf with smaller leaf tobacco suppliers in some of the markets where we conduct business.  Some of these smaller leaf tobacco suppliers operate in more than one country.  Since they typically provide little or no support to farmers, these leaf tobacco suppliers typically have lower overhead requirements than we do.  Due to their lower cost structures, they often can offer prices on products and services that are lower than our prices.  Our customers also directly source leaf tobacco from farmers to meet some of their raw material needs.  Direct sourcing provides our customers with some qualities and quantities of leaf tobacco that they prefer not to use in their existing blends and that may be offered for sale.  This competition for both the sale and purchase of leaf, both with smaller leaf tobacco suppliers and direct sourcing, could reduce the volume of the leaf we handle and could negatively impact our financial results.. Our financial results can be significantly affected by changes in the balance of supply and demand for leaf tobacco.. As a leaf tobacco supplier, our financial results can be significantly affected by changes in the overall balance of worldwide supply and demand for leaf tobacco.  The demand for leaf tobacco, which is based upon customers' expectations of their future requirements, can change from time to time depending upon factors affecting the demand for their products.  Our customers' expectations and their demand for leaf tobacco are influenced by a number of factors, including:. • trends in the global consumption of cigarettes,. • trends in consumption of cigars and other tobacco products,. • trends in consumption of alternative tobacco products, such as electronic nicotine delivery systems and non-combustible products,. • levels of competition among our customers, and. • regulatory and governmental factors.. The world supply of leaf tobacco at any given time is a function of current tobacco production, inventories held by manufacturers, and the stocks of leaf tobacco held by leaf tobacco suppliers.  Production of tobacco in a given year may be significantly affected by such factors as:. • demographic shifts that change the number of farmers or the amount of land available to grow tobacco,. • decisions by farmers to grow crops other than leaf tobacco,. • volume of annual tobacco plantings and yields realized by farmers,. • availability of crop inputs,. • weather and natural disasters, including any adverse weather conditions that may result from climate change, and. • crop infestation and disease.. Any significant change in these factors could cause a material imbalance in the supply of and demand for tobacco, which would affect our results of operations.. 9. Our financial results will vary according to tobacco growing conditions, customer requirements, and other factors.  These factors may also limit the ability to accurately forecast our future performance and increase the risk of an investment in our common stock or other securities.. Our financial results, particularly our year-over-year quarterly comparisons, may be significantly affected by variations in tobacco growing seasons and fluctuations in crop sizes.  The timing of the cultivation and delivery of tobacco is dependent upon a number of factors, including weather and other natural events, and our processing schedules and results of operations can be significantly altered by these factors.  In addition, the potential impact of climate change is uncertain and may vary by geographic region.  The possible effects, as described in various public accounts, could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels that could adversely impact our costs and business operations and the supply and demand for leaf tobacco.  Our operations also rely on dependable and efficient transportation services.  A disruption in transportation services, as a result of climate change or otherwise, may also significantly impact our results of operations.. Further, the timing and unpredictability of customer orders and shipments may require us to keep tobacco in inventory and may also result in variations in quarterly and annual financial results.  We base sales recognition on the passage of ownership.  Since individual shipments may represent significant amounts of revenue, our quarterly and annual financial results may vary significantly depending on the timing of needs and shipping instructions of our customers and the availability of transportation services.  These fluctuations result in varying volumes and sales in given periods, which also reduce the comparability of financial results.. Major shifts in customer requirements for tobacco supply may significantly affect our operating results.. If our customers significantly alter their requirements for tobacco volumes from certain regions, we may have to change our production facilities and alter our fixed asset base in certain origins.  Permanent or long-term reduction in demand for tobacco from origins where we have operations may trigger restructuring and impairment charges.  We may also need to make significant capital investments in other regions to develop the needed infrastructure to meet customer supply requirements.. Weather and other conditions can affect the marketability of our products.. Tobacco crops are subject to vagaries of weather and the environment that can, in some cases, change the quality or size of the crops.  If a weather event is particularly severe, such as a major drought or hurricane, the affected crop could be destroyed or damaged to an extent that it would be less desirable to manufacturers, which would result in a reduction in revenues.  If such an event is also widespread, it could affect our ability to acquire the quantity of tobacco required by our customers.  In addition, other factors can affect the marketability of tobacco, including, among other things, the presence of excess residues of crop protection agents or non-tobacco related materials.  A significant event impacting the condition or quality of a large amount of any of the crops that we buy could make it difficult for us to sell these products or to fill customers' orders.. Our food ingredient business is subject to industry-specific risks which could adversely affect our operating results.. Our food ingredients business is subject to risks posed by food spoilage or food contamination; shifting consumer preferences; federal, state, and local food processing regulations; product tampering; and product liability claims.  If one or more of these risks were to materialize, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected, and our Company's reputation might be damaged.. We may be adversely impacted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately, including with respect to cybersecurity issues.. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems (including those provided to us by third parties) to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations.. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches or intrusions (including theft of confidential data), and viruses. If we are unable to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks and other information security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, be subject to litigation, or incur remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, suppliers or employees.. 10. Regulatory and Governmental Factors. Government efforts to regulate the production and consumption of tobacco products could have a significant impact on the businesses of our customers, which would, in turn, affect our results of operations.. About 5% of cigarettes manufactured worldwide are consumed in the United States.  Nationally, the U.S. federal government and certain state and local governments have taken or proposed actions that may have the effect of reducing U.S. consumption of tobacco products and indirectly reducing demand for our products and services.  These activities have included:. • restrictions on the use of tobacco products in public places and places of employment,. • legislation authorizing the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the \"FDA\") to regulate the manufacturing and marketing of all tobacco products,. • increases in the federal, state, and local excise taxes on cigarettes and other \"deemed\" tobacco products, and. • the policy of the U.S. government to link certain federal grants to the enforcement of state laws restricting the sale of tobacco products.. Numerous other legislative and regulatory anti-smoking measures have been proposed at the federal, state, and local levels.. Globally, a number of foreign governments and non-government organizations also have taken or proposed steps to restrict or prohibit tobacco product advertising and promotion, to increase taxes on tobacco products, to indirectly limit the use of certain types of tobacco, and to discourage tobacco product consumption.  A number of such measures, including plain packaging, are included in the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (\"FCTC\"), which was negotiated and promoted globally under the auspices of the World Health Organization (\"WHO\").  We cannot predict the extent or speed at which the efforts of governments or non-governmental agencies to reduce tobacco consumption might affect the business of our primary customers.  However, a significant decrease in worldwide tobacco consumption brought about by existing or future governmental laws and regulations would reduce demand for tobacco products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Government actions can have a significant effect on the sourcing of tobacco.  If some of the current efforts are successful, we could have difficulty obtaining sufficient tobacco to meet our customers' requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our performance and results of operations.. The WHO, through the FCTC, created a formal study group in 2007 to identify and assess crop diversification initiatives and alternatives to growing leaf tobacco in countries whose economies depend upon tobacco production.  If certain countries were to partner with the FCTC study group and seek to eliminate or significantly reduce leaf tobacco production, we could encounter difficulty in sourcing leaf tobacco to fill customer requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Certain recommendations by the WHO, through the FCTC, may cause shifts in customer usage of certain styles of tobacco.  As seen in countries like Canada and Brazil and in the European Union, efforts have been taken to eliminate ingredients from the manufacturing process for tobacco products.  Recently, the FCTC and the FDA have discussed formulating a nicotine strategy (limitations on the level of nicotine allowed in tobacco and tobacco smoke).  Such decisions could cause a change in requirements for certain styles of tobacco in particular countries.  Shifts in customer demand from one type of tobacco to another could create sourcing challenges as requirements move from one origin to another.. Trade proposals have included provisions that could effectively allow governments to regulate tobacco products differently than other products.  These \"carve outs\" could negatively impact the industry and reduce requirements for leaf tobacco.. In addition, continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues, including climate change, conservation, and natural resource management, could result in new or more stringent forms of regulatory oversight of industry activities, which may lead to increased levels of expenditures for environmental controls, land use restrictions affecting us or our suppliers, and other conditions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  For example, certain aspects of our business generate carbon emissions.  Regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions have been proposed.  These may include limitations on such emissions, taxes or emission allowance fees on such emissions, various restrictions on industrial operations, and other measures that could affect land-use decisions, the cost of agricultural production, and the cost and means of processing and transporting our products.  These actions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 11. Because we conduct a significant portion of our operations internationally, political and economic uncertainties in certain countries could have an adverse effect on our performance and results of operations.. Our international operations are subject to uncertainties and risks relating to the political stability of certain foreign governments, principally in developing countries and emerging markets, and also to the effects of changes in the trade policies and economic regulations of foreign governments.  These uncertainties and risks, which include undeveloped or antiquated commercial law, the expropriation, indigenization, or nationalization of assets, and the authority to revoke or refuse to renew business licenses and work permits, may adversely impact our ability to effectively manage our operations in those countries.  We have substantial capital investments in South America and Africa, and the performance of our operations in those regions can materially affect our earnings.  If the political situation in any of the countries where we conduct business were to deteriorate significantly, our ability to recover assets located there could be impaired.  To the extent that we do not replace any lost volumes of tobacco with tobacco from other sources, or we incur increased costs related to such replacement, our financial condition or results of operations, or both, would suffer.. In addition, the Trump administration has called for substantial changes to U.S. foreign trade policy, including the possibility of imposing greater restrictions on international trade and significant tariffs on goods imported into the United States.  An escalation of protectionist trade measures by the United States or other countries, such as taxes, tariffs, increased customs duties or other measures, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Due to broad uncertainty regarding the timing, content and extent of any regulatory changes in the United States or abroad, we cannot predict the impact, if any, that these changes could have to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in tax laws in the countries where we do business may adversely affect our results of operations.. Through our subsidiaries, we are subject to the tax laws of many jurisdictions.  Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws can affect our earnings, as can the resolution of various pending and contested tax issues. In most jurisdictions, we regularly have audits and examinations by the designated tax authorities, and additional tax assessments are common.  We believe that we comply with applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions where we operate, and we vigorously contest all significant tax assessments where we believe we are in compliance with the tax laws.. In December 2017, the United States Congress enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), which changed the central premise for corporate taxation from a system of taxing worldwide income to a modified territorial system.  The Tax Act further lowered the statutory tax rate on domestic earnings from 35% to 21%, but also includes new limitations on the deductibility of certain expenses.  The Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required under U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the Tax Act, review all information, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Financial Factors. Failure of our customers or suppliers to repay extensions of credit could materially impact our results of operations.. We extend credit to both suppliers and customers.  A significant bad debt provision related to amounts due could adversely affect our results of operations.  In addition, crop advances to farmers are generally secured by the farmers' agreement to deliver green tobacco.  In the event of crop failure, delivery failure, or permanent reductions in crop sizes, full recovery of advances may never be realized, or otherwise could be delayed until future crops are delivered.  See Notes 1 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for more information on these extensions of credit.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results of operations.. We account for most of our tobacco operations using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency.  The international tobacco trade generally is conducted in U.S. dollars, and we finance most of our tobacco operations in U.S. dollars.  Although this generally limits foreign exchange risk to the economic risk that is related to leaf purchase and production costs, overhead, and income taxes in the source country, significant currency movements could materially impact our results of operations.  Changes in exchange rates can make a particular crop more or less expensive in U.S. dollar terms.  If a particular crop is viewed as expensive in U.S. dollar terms, it may be less attractive in the world market.  This could negatively affect the profitability of that crop and our results of operations.  In tobacco markets that are primarily domestic, such as Hungary, Poland, and the Philippines, the local currency is the functional currency.  In addition, the local currency is the functional currency in other markets, such as Western Europe, where export sales have been denominated primarily in local currencies. In these markets, reported earnings are affected by the translation of the local currency into the U.S. dollar. See Item 7A, \"Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk\" for additional discussion related to foreign currency exchange risk.. 12. Our purchases of tobacco are generally made in local currency, and we also provide farmer advances that are denominated in the local currency.  We account for currency remeasurement gains or losses on those advances as period costs, and they are usually accompanied by offsetting increases or decreases in the purchase cost of tobacco, which is priced in the local currency.  The effect of differences in the cost of tobacco is generally not realized in our earnings until the tobacco is sold, which often occurs in a quarter or fiscal year subsequent to the recognition of the related remeasurement gains or losses.  The difference in timing could affect our profitability in a given quarter or fiscal year.. We have used currency hedging strategies to reduce our foreign currency exchange rate risks in some markets.  In addition, where we source tobacco in countries with illiquid or nonexistent forward foreign exchange markets, we often manage our foreign exchange risk by matching funding for inventory purchases with the currency of sale and by minimizing our net investment in these countries.  To the extent that we have net monetary assets or liabilities in local currency, and those balances are not hedged, we may have currency remeasurement gains or losses that will affect our results of operations.. Changes in interest rates may affect our results of operations.. We generally use both fixed and floating interest rate debt to finance our operations.  Changes in market interest rates expose us to changes in cash flows for floating rate instruments and to changes in fair value for fixed-rate instruments.   We normally maintain a proportion of our debt in both variable and fixed interest rates to manage this exposure, and from time to time we may enter hedge agreements to swap the interest rates.  In addition, our customers may pay market rates of interest for inventory purchased on order, which could mitigate a portion of the floating interest rate exposure on short-term borrowings.  To the extent we are unable to match these interest rates, a decrease in interest rates could increase our net financing costs.  We also periodically have large cash balances and may receive deposits from customers, both of which we use to fund seasonal purchases of tobacco, reducing our financing needs.  Decreases in short-term interest rates could reduce the income we derive from those investments.  Changes in interest rates also affect expense related to our defined benefit pension plan, as described below.. Low investment performance by our defined benefit pension plan assets and changes in pension plan valuation assumptions may increase our pension expense and may require us to fund a larger portion of our pension obligations, thus diverting funds from other potential uses.. We sponsor domestic defined benefit pension plans that cover certain eligible employees.  Our results of operations may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of expense we record for these plans.  U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") require that we calculate expense for the plans using actuarial valuations.  These valuations reflect assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions that may change based on changes in key economic indicators.  The most significant year-end assumptions we used to estimate pension expense for fiscal year 2018 were the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and the mortality rates.  In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to shareholders' equity through a reduction or increase to the \"Pension and other postretirement benefit plans\" component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss.  At the end of fiscal year 2018, the projected benefit obligation of our qualified U.S. pension plan was $223 million and plan assets were $215 million.  For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan valuation assumptions, see \"Critical Accounting Estimates  -  Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans\" in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Item 7 and in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  Although GAAP expense and pension funding contributions are not directly related, key economic factors that affect GAAP expense can also affect the amount of cash we are required to contribute to our pension plans under requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (\"ERISA\").  Failure to achieve expected returns on plan assets could also result in an increase to the amount of cash we would be required to contribute to our pension plans.  In order to maintain or improve the funded status of our plans, we may also choose to contribute more cash to our plans than required by ERISA regulations."
