[1] "Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. Business and Economic Risks. We are affected by general economic conditions, particularly fluctuations in industrial production and consumption, and an economic downturn could adversely affect our operations and financial results.. We sell chemicals that are used in manufacturing processes and as components of or ingredients in other products. Our sales are correlated with and affected by fluctuations in the levels of industrial production, manufacturing output, and general economic activity. Producers of commodity and specialty chemicals are likely to reduce their output in periods of significant contraction in industrial and consumer demand, while demand for the products we distribute depends largely on trends in demand in the end markets our customers serve. A majority of our sales are in North America and Europe and our business is therefore susceptible to downturns in those economies as well as, to a lesser extent, the economies in the rest of the world. Our profit margins, as well as overall demand for our products and services, could decline as a result of a large number of factors outside our control, including economic recessions, reduced customer demand (whether due to changes in production processes, consumer preferences, laws and regulations affecting the chemicals industry and the manner in which they are enforced, or other factors), inflation, fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, and changes in the fiscal or monetary policies of governments in the regions in which we operate.. General economic conditions and macroeconomic trends, as well as the creditworthiness of our customers, could affect overall demand for chemicals. Any overall decline in the demand for chemicals could significantly reduce our sales and profitability. If the creditworthiness of our customers declines, we would face increased credit risk. In addition, volatility and disruption in financial markets could adversely affect our sales and results of operations by limiting our customers' ability to obtain financing necessary to maintain or expand their own operations.. 20. Table of Contents. A historical feature of past economic weakness has been significant destocking of inventories, including inventories of chemicals used in industrial and manufacturing processes. It is possible that an improvement in our net sales in a particular period may be attributable in part to restocking of inventories by our customers and represent a level of sales or sales growth that will not be sustainable over the longer term. Further economic weakness could lead to insolvencies among our customers or producers, as well as among financial institutions that are counterparties on financial instruments or accounts that we hold. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Disruptions in the supply of chemicals we distribute or in the operations of our customers could adversely affect our business.. Our business depends on access to adequate supplies of the chemicals our customers purchase from us. From time to time, we may be unable to purchase adequate quantities of certain chemicals at prices that would enable us to earn a profit, if at all due to supply disruptions. Causes of supply disruptions may include natural disasters (including hurricanes and other extreme weather), industrial accidents, scheduled production outages, producer breaches of contract, producer disruptions, high demand leading to difficulties allocating appropriate quantities, port closures and other transportation disruptions and other circumstances beyond our control. In addition, unpredictable events may have a significant impact on the industries in which many of our customers operate, reducing demand for products that we normally distribute in significant volumes. Significant disruptions of supply and disruptions in customer industries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Significant changes in the business strategies of producers could also disrupt our supply. Large chemical manufacturers may elect to sell certain products (or products in certain regions) directly to customers, instead of relying on distributors such as us. While we do not believe that our results depend materially on access to any individual producer's products, a reversal of the trend toward more active use of distributors would likely result in increasing margin pressure or products becoming unavailable to us. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. To the extent we have contracts with producers and our customers, they are generally short term or terminable upon short notice or at will, and termination or renegotiation of our relationships with producers and customers could negatively affect our business.. Our purchases and sales of chemicals are typically made pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term contracts. Many of our contracts with both producers and our customers are terminable without cause upon 30 days' or less notice to us from the producer or customer. While some of our relationships for the distribution and sale of chemicals have exclusivity or preference provisions, we may not enforce these provisions effectively due to legal or business considerations. Our business relationships and reputation may suffer if we are unable to meet our delivery obligations to our customers which may occur because many producers are not subject to contracts or can terminate contracts on short notice. In addition, renegotiation of purchase or sales terms to our disadvantage could reduce our sales margins. Any of these developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The prices and costs of the products we purchase may be subject to large and significant price increases. We might not be able to pass such cost increases through to our customers. We could experience financial losses if our inventories of one or more chemicals exceed our sales and the price of those chemicals decreases significantly while in our inventories or if our inventories fall short of our sales and the purchase price of those chemicals increases significantly.. We purchase and sell a wide variety of chemicals, the price and availability of which may fluctuate, and may be subject to large and significant price increases. Many of our contracts with producers include chemical prices that are not fixed or are tied to an index, which allows our producers to change the prices of the chemicals we purchase as the price of the chemicals fluctuates in the market. Our business is exposed to these fluctuations, as well as to fluctuations in our costs for transportation and distribution due to rising fuel prices or increases in charges from common carriers, rail companies and other third party transportation providers, as well as other factors. Changes in chemical prices affect our net sales and cost of goods sold, as well as our working capital requirements, levels of debt and financing costs. We might not always be able to reflect increases in our chemical costs, transportation costs and other costs in our own pricing. Any inability to pass cost increases onto customers may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In order to meet customer demand, we typically maintain significant inventories, and we are therefore subject to a number of risks associated with our inventory levels, including the following:. • declines in the prices of chemicals that are held by us;. • the need to maintain a significant inventory of chemicals that may be in limited supply and therefore difficult to procure;. • buying chemicals in bulk for the best pricing and thereby holding excess inventory;. 21. Table of Contents. • responding to the fluctuating demand for chemicals;. • cancellation of customer orders; and. • responding to customer requests for rapid delivery.. In order to manage our inventories successfully, we must estimate demand from our customers and purchase chemicals that substantially correspond to that demand. If we overestimate demand and purchase too much of a particular chemical, we face a risk that the price of that chemical will fall, leaving us with inventory that we cannot sell profitably or have to write down such inventory from its recorded value. If we underestimate demand and purchase insufficient quantities of a particular chemical and prices of that chemical rise, we could be forced to purchase that chemical at a higher price and forego profitability in order to meet customer demand. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer a material adverse effect if either or both of these situations occur frequently or in large volumes.. We could lose our customers and suffer damage to our reputation if we are unable to meet customer demand for a particular product.. It can be difficult to anticipate our customers' requirements for particular chemicals, particularly in the cases on pronounced cyclicality in our end markets. We could be, and often are, asked to deliver larger-than-expected quantities of a particular chemical on short notice. If for any reason we experience difficulties in filling customer orders, our reputation and customer relationships could be harmed. Customers may discontinue their relationship with us or we may be required to pay a higher price in order to obtain the needed chemical on short notice, thereby adversely affecting our margins.. Trends in oil, gas and mineral prices could adversely affect the level of exploration, development and production activity of certain of our customers and in turn the demand for our products and services.. Demand for our oil, gas and mining products and services is sensitive to the level of exploration, drilling, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil, gas and mining companies and oilfield service providers. The level of exploration, drilling, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil, gas and mineral prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile. Many factors may affect these prices, including global market conditions, political conditions and weather. The unpredictability of these factors prevents any reasonable forecast on the movements of such prices.. Any reduction in oil and gas prices, could depress the immediate levels of exploration, drilling, development and production activity by certain of our customers. Even the perception of longer-term lower oil and gas prices by certain of our customers could similarly reduce or delay major expenditures by these customers given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. If any of these events were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive.. The chemical distribution market is highly competitive. Chemicals can be purchased from a variety of sources, including traders, brokers, wholesalers and other distributors, as well as directly from producers. Many of the products we distribute or finish are essentially fungible with products offered by our competition, including emerging competitors. The competitive pressure we face is particularly strong in sectors and markets where local competitors have strong positions or where new competitors can easily enter. Increased competition from distributors of products similar to or competitive with ours could result in price reductions, reduced margins and a loss of market share.. We expect to continue to experience significant and increasing levels of competition in the future. We must also compete with smaller companies that have been able to develop strong local or regional customer bases. In certain countries, some of our competitors are more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have greater resources within those countries than we do.. Consolidation of our competitors in the markets in which we operate could place us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our profitability.. We operate in an industry which is highly fragmented on a global scale, but in which there has been a trend toward consolidation in recent years. Consolidations of our competitors may jeopardize the strength of our positions in one or more of the markets in which we operate and any advantages we currently enjoy due to the comparative scale of our operations. Losing some of those advantages could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our growth potential.. 22. Table of Contents. We have in the past and may in the future make acquisitions, ventures and strategic investments, some of which may be significant in size and scope, which have involved in the past and will likely involve in the future numerous risks. We may not be able to address these risks without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems.. We have made and may in the future make acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses or companies (including strategic partnerships with other companies). Acquisitions or investments have involved in the past and will likely involve in the future various risks, such as:. • integrating the operations and personnel of any acquired business;. • the potential disruption of our ongoing business, including the diversion of management attention;. • the possible inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment;. • customer attrition arising from preferences to maintain redundant sources of supply;. • producer attrition arising from overlapping or competitive products;. • assumption of contingent or unanticipated liabilities or regulatory liabilities;. • dependence on the retention and performance of existing management and work force of acquired businesses for the future performance of these businesses;. • regulatory risks associated with acquired businesses (including the risk that we may be required for regulatory reasons to dispose of a portion of our existing or acquired businesses); and. • the risks inherent in entering geographic or product markets in which we have limited prior experience.. Future acquisitions and investments may need to be financed in part through additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities or through other arrangements, and could result in substantial cash expenditures. The necessary acquisition financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required, particularly because our current high leverage may make it difficult or impossible for us to secure additional financing for acquisitions.. To the extent that we make acquisitions that result in our recording significant goodwill or other intangible assets, the requirement to review goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment periodically may result in impairments that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In connection with acquisitions, ventures or divestitures, we may become subject to liabilities.. In connection with any acquisitions or ventures, we may acquire liabilities or defects such as legal claims, including but not limited to third party liability and other tort claims; claims for breach of contract; employment-related claims; environmental liabilities, conditions or damage; permitting, regulatory or other compliance with law issues; hazardous materials or liability for hazardous materials; or tax liabilities. If we acquire any of these liabilities, and they are not adequately covered by insurance or an enforceable indemnity or similar agreement from a creditworthy counterparty, we may be responsible for significant out-of-pocket expenditures. In connection with any divestitures, we may incur liabilities for breaches of representations and warranties or failure to comply with operating covenants under any agreement for a divestiture. In addition, we may indemnify a counterparty in a divestiture for certain liabilities of the subsidiary or operations subject to the divestiture transaction. These liabilities, if they materialize, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our balance sheet includes significant goodwill and intangible assets, the impairment of which could affect our future operating results.. We carry significant goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2017, our goodwill and intangible assets totaled approximately $1.8 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively, including approximately $1.2 billion in goodwill resulting from our 2007 acquisition by investment funds advised by CVC. We may also recognize additional goodwill and intangible assets in connection with future business acquisitions. Goodwill is not amortized for book purposes. We test for impairment annually using a fair value based approach. We also test between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit has more likely than not declined below its carrying value. The identification and measurement of impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of reporting units, which requires judgment and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions by management. The estimates of fair value of reporting units are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment and incorporate management assumptions about expected future cash flows and contemplate other valuation techniques. Our estimates of future cash flows may differ from actual cash flows that are subsequently realized due to many factors, including future worldwide economic conditions and the expected benefits of our initiatives, among other things. Intangible assets are amortized for book purposes over their respective useful lives and are tested for impairment if any event occurs or circumstances change that indicates that carrying value may not be recoverable. Although we currently do not expect that our goodwill and intangible assets will be further impaired, we cannot guarantee that a material. 23. Table of Contents. impairment will not occur, particularly in the event of a substantial deterioration in our future prospects either in total or in a particular reporting unit. See \"Note 12: Goodwill and intangible assets\" in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of our 2017 impairment review. If our goodwill and intangible assets become impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We require significant working capital, and we expect our working capital needs to increase in the future, which could result in having lower cash available for, among other things, capital expenditures and acquisition financing.. We require significant working capital to purchase chemicals from chemical producers and distributors and sell those chemicals efficiently and profitably to our customers. Our working capital needs may increase if the price of products we purchase and inventory increase. Our working capital needs also increase at certain times of the year, as our customers' requirements for chemicals increase. For example, our customers in the agricultural sector require significant deliveries of chemicals within a growing season that can be very short and depend on weather patterns in a given year. We need inventory on hand to have product available to ensure timely delivery to our customers. If our working capital requirements increase and we are unable to finance our working capital on terms and conditions acceptable to us, we may not be able to obtain chemicals to respond to customer demand, which could result in a loss of sales.. In addition, the amount of working capital we require to run our business is expected to increase in the future due to expansions in our business activities. If our working capital needs increase, the amount of free cash we have at our disposal to devote to other uses will decrease. A decrease in free cash could, among other things, limit our flexibility, including our ability to make capital expenditures and to acquire suitable acquisition targets that we have identified. If increases in our working capital occur and have the effect of decreasing our free cash, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a history of net losses and may not sustain profitability in the future.. Although we achieved profitability in 2017, we had a net loss of $68.4 million in 2016 and there can be no assurance that we will sustain profitability.  We have incurred net losses in four of the last six fiscal years. Growth of our revenues may slow or revenues may decline for a number of possible reasons, including slowing demand for our products and services, increasing competition or decreasing growth of our overall market. Our cost of goods sold could increase for a number of possible reasons, including increases in chemical prices and increases in chemical handling expenses due to regulatory action or litigation. In addition, our ability to generate profits could be impacted by our substantial indebtedness and the related interest expense. The interest payments on our indebtedness have exceeded operating income in four of our last six fiscal years. All of these factors could contribute to further net losses and, if we are unable to meet these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business may suffer.. We rely on our computer and data processing systems, and a large-scale malfunction could disrupt our business or create potential liabilities.. Our ability to keep our business operating effectively depends on the functional and efficient operation of our enterprise resource planning, telecommunications systems, inventory tracking, billing and other information systems and related records and information management policies. We rely on these systems to track transactions, billings, payments and inventory, as well as to make a variety of day-to-day business decisions. Our systems are aging and susceptible to malfunctions, lack of support, interruptions (including due to equipment damage, power outages, computer viruses and a range of other hardware, software and network problems) and we may experience such malfunctions, interruptions or security breaches in the future. Our systems may also be older generations of software which are unable to perform as efficiently as, and fail to communicate well with, newer systems. As the development and implementation of our information technology systems continue, we may elect to modify, replace or discontinue certain technology initiatives, which would result in write-downs.. Although our systems are diversified, including multiple server locations and a range of software applications for different regions and functions, a significant or large-scale malfunction, interruption or security breach of our computer or data processing systems could adversely affect our ability to manage and keep our operations running efficiently and damage our reputation if we are unable to track transactions and receive products from producers or deliver products to our customers. A malfunction that results in a wider or sustained disruption to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on the ability of management to align and optimize technology to implement business strategies. A security breach might also lead to potential claims from third parties or employees.. Further, a failure to comply with our records and information management and retention policies could lead to potential claims, liabilities or exposures.. 24. Table of Contents. Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats to us, and other disruptions.. We face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable, threats to the security of our facilities, and threats from terrorist acts. The potential for such security threats subjects our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are continuously working to improve our ability to respond and recover from potential security threats through technological improvements and employee awareness training around cyber risks.  In responding to these risks, we continue to implement various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities and infrastructure which may result in increased capital and operating costs. We may be the recipients of intelligence or other threat information that we are unable to share with investors and other stakeholders. There can be no assurance that such procedures, controls, and intelligence will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows and could result in claims being brought against us. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data (either directly or through our business partners), and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. In addition, if any information about our customers and producers retained by us were the subject of a successful cybersecurity attack against us, we could be subject to litigation or other claims by the affected customers and producers. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from expenses related to remediation actions, loss of business or potential liability.. We depend on transportation assets, some of which we do not own, in order to deliver products to our customers.. Although we maintain a significant portfolio of owned and leased transportation assets, including trucks, trailers and railcars, we also rely on transportation and warehousing provided by third parties (including common carriers and rail companies) to deliver products to our customers. Our access to third party transportation is not guaranteed, and we may be unable to transport chemicals at economically attractive rates in certain circumstances, particularly in cases of adverse market conditions or disruptions to transportation infrastructure. We are also subject to increased costs that we may not always be able to recover from our customers, including fuel prices, as well as charges imposed by common carriers, leasing companies and other third parties involved in transportation. In particular, our US operations rely to a significant extent on rail shipments, and we are therefore required to pay rail companies' network access fees. We can also experience the availability of trucks and drivers tighten. We are also subject to the risks normally associated with product delivery, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, disruptions in our lease arrangements and the availability of fuel, as well as liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not adequately covered by insurance or misdelivery of products. Our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business exposes us to significant risks associated with hazardous materials and related activities, not all of which are covered by insurance.. Because we are engaged in the blending, managing, handling, storing, selling, transporting and disposing of chemicals, chemical waste products and other hazardous materials, product liability, health impacts, fire damage, safety and environmental risks are significant concerns for us. We maintain substantial reserves relating to remediation activities at our owned sites and third party sites which are subject to federal and state clean-up requirements, as described below in \" - We are subject to extensive general and product-specific environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Compliance with and changes to these environmental, health and safety laws, including laws relating to the investigation and remediation of contamination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.\" We are exposed to present and future chemical exposure claims by employees, contractors on our premises, other persons located nearby, as well as related workers' compensation claims.  In the United States, we are subject to federal legislation enforced by OSHA as well as to state safety and health laws. We carry insurance to protect us against many accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business and we maintain environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage in accordance with our assessment of the risks involved, the ability to bear those risks and the cost and availability of insurance. Each of these insurance policies is subject to exclusions, deductibles and coverage limits we believe are generally in accordance with industry standards and practices. See \"Business - Insurance\" in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not insure against all risks and may not be able to insure adequately against certain risks (whether relating to our or a third party's activities or other matters) and may not have insurance coverage that will pay any particular claim. We also may be unable to obtain at commercially reasonable rates in the future adequate insurance coverage for the risks we currently insure against, and certain risks are or could become completely uninsurable or eligible for coverage only to a reduced extent. In particular, more stringent environmental, health or safety regulations may increase our costs for, or impact the availability of, insurance against accident-related risks and the risks of environmental damage or pollution. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially impaired by accidents and other environmental risks that substantially reduce our revenues, increase our costs or subject us to other liabilities in excess of available insurance.. 25. Table of Contents. Accidents, safety failures, environmental damage, product quality issues, major or systemic delivery failures involving our distribution network or the products we carry, or adverse health effects or other harm related to hazardous materials we blend, manage, handle, store, sell, transport or dispose of could damage our reputation and result in substantial damages or remedial obligations.. Our business depends to a significant extent on our customers' and producers' trust in our reputation for reliability, quality, safety and environmental responsibility. Actual or alleged instances of safety deficiencies, mistaken or incorrect deliveries, inferior product quality, exposure to hazardous materials resulting in illness, injury or other harm to persons, property or natural resources, or of damage caused by us or our products, could damage our reputation and lead to customers and producers curtailing the volume of business they do with us. Also, there may be safety, personal injury or other environmental risks related to our products which are not known today. Any of these events, outcomes or allegations could also subject us to substantial legal claims, and we could incur substantial expenses, including legal fees and other costs, in defending such legal claims which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations.. Actual or alleged accidents or other incidents at our facilities or that otherwise involve our personnel or operations could also subject us to claims for damages by third parties. Because many of the chemicals that we handle are dangerous, we are subject to the ongoing risk of hazards, including leaks, spills, releases, explosions and fires, which may cause property damage, illness, physical injury or death. We sell products used in hydraulic fracturing, a process that involves injecting water, sand and chemicals into subsurface rock formations to release and capture oil and natural gas. The use of such hydraulic fracturing fluids by our customers may result in releases that could impact the environment and third parties. Several of our distribution facilities, including our Los Angeles facility, one of our largest, are located near high-density population centers. If any such events occur, whether through our own fault, through preexisting conditions at our facilities, through the fault of a third party or through a natural disaster, terrorist incident or other event outside our control, our reputation could be damaged significantly. We could also become responsible, as a result of environmental or other laws or by court order, for substantial monetary damages or expensive investigative or remedial obligations related to such events, including but not limited to those resulting from third party lawsuits or environmental investigation and cleanup obligations on and off-site. The amount of any costs, including fines, damages and/or investigative and remedial obligations, that we may become obligated to pay under such circumstances could substantially exceed any insurance we have to cover such losses.. Any of these risks, if they materialize, could significantly harm our reputation, expose us to substantial liabilities and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. International Market Risk. We generate a significant portion of our net sales internationally and intend to continue to expand our international operations. We face particular challenges in emerging markets. Our results of operations could suffer if we are unable to manage our international operations effectively or as a result of various risks related to our international activities.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 40% of our net sales were generated outside of the United States. We intend to continue to expand our penetration in certain foreign markets and to enter new and emerging foreign markets. Expansion of our international business will require significant management attention and resources. The profitability of our international operations will largely depend on our continued success in the following areas:. • securing key producer relationships to help establish our presence in international markets;. • hiring and training personnel capable of supporting producers and our customers and managing operations in foreign countries;. • localizing our business processes to meet the specific needs and preferences of foreign producers and customers, which may differ in certain respects from our experience in North America and Europe;. • building our reputation and awareness of our services among foreign producers and customers; and. • implementing new financial, management information and operational systems, procedures and controls to monitor our operations in new markets effectively, without causing undue disruptions to our operations and customer and producer relationships.. In addition, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including:. • varying and often unclear legal and regulatory requirements that may be subject to inconsistent or disparate enforcement, particularly regarding environmental, health and safety issues and security or other certification requirements, as well as other laws and business practices that favor local competitors, such as exposure to possible expropriation, nationalization, restrictions on investments by foreign companies or other governmental actions;. • less stable supply sources;. 26. Table of Contents. • competition from existing market participants that may have a longer history in and greater familiarity with the foreign markets where we operate;. • tariffs, export duties, quotas and other barriers to trade; as well as possible limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies into US dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries;. • possible future changes to tariffs associated with imports and exports from the US;. • divergent labor regulations and cultural expectations regarding employment and agency;. • different cultural expectations regarding industrialization, international business and business relationships;. • foreign taxes and related regulations, including foreign taxes that we may not be able to offset against taxes imposed upon us in the United States, and foreign tax and other laws limiting our ability to repatriate earnings to the United States;. • possible changes in foreign and domestic taxes and related regulations;. • extended payment terms and challenges in our ability to collect accounts receivable;. • changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions;. • compliance with anti-bribery laws such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, the violation of which could expose us to severe criminal or civil sanctions; and. • compliance with anti-boycott, privacy, economic sanctions, anti-dumping, antitrust, import and export laws and regulations by our employees or intermediaries acting on our behalf, the violation of which could expose us to significant fines, penalties or other sanctions.. If we fail to address the challenges and risks associated with international expansion, we may encounter difficulties implementing our strategy, thereby impeding our growth and harming our operating results.. Our operations in the Asia-Pacific region, Eastern Europe, Latin America and the Middle East and Africa are still developing. It may prove difficult to achieve our goals and take advantage of growth and acquisition opportunities in these or in other emerging markets due to a lack of comprehensive market knowledge and network and legal restrictions. Our growth in emerging markets may also be limited by other factors such as significant government influence over local economies, foreign investment restrictions, substantial fluctuations in economic growth, high levels of inflation and volatility in currency values, exchange controls or restrictions on expatriation of earnings, high domestic interest rates, wage and price controls, changes in governmental economic or tax policies, imposition of trade barriers, unexpected changes in regulation and overall political social and economic instability. In addition, the heightened exposure to terrorist attacks or acts of war or civil unrest in certain geographies, if they occur, could result in damage to our facilities, substantial financial losses or injuries to our personnel.. Although we exercise what we believe to be an appropriate level of central control and active supervision of our operations around the world, our local subsidiaries retain significant operational flexibility. There is a risk that our operations around the world will experience problems that could damage our reputation, or that could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to effectively implement our strategies or achieve our business goals.. The breadth and scope of our business poses several challenges, such as:. • initiating or maintaining effective communication among and across all of our geographic business segments and industry groups;. • identifying new products and product lines and integrating them into our distribution network;. • allocating financial and other resources efficiently across all of our business segments and industry groups;. • aligning organizational structure with management's vision and direction;. • communicating ownership and accounting over business activities and ensuring responsibilities are properly understood throughout the organization;. • ensuring cultural and organizational changes are executed smoothly and efficiently and ensuring personnel resources are properly allocated to effect these changes; and. • establishing standardized processes across geographic business segments and industry groups.. 27. Table of Contents. As a result of these and other factors such as these, we may be unable to effectively implement our strategies or achieve our business goals. Any failure to effectively implement our strategies may adversely impact our future prospects and our results of operations and financial condition.. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.. We sell products in over 140 countries and we generated approximately 40% of our 2017 net sales outside the United States. The revenues we receive from such foreign sales are often denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. We do not hedge our foreign currency exposure with respect to our investment in and earnings from our foreign businesses. Accordingly, we might suffer considerable losses if there is a significant adverse movement in exchange rates.. In addition, we report our consolidated results in US dollars. The results of operations and the financial position of our local operations are generally reported in the relevant local currencies and then translated into US dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to currency translation risk. Consequently, any change in exchange rates between our foreign subsidiaries' functional currencies and the US dollar will affect our consolidated income statement and balance sheet when the results of those operating companies are translated into US dollars for reporting purposes. Decreases in the value of our foreign subsidiaries' functional currencies against the US dollar will tend to reduce those operating companies' contributions in dollar terms to our financial condition and results of operations. In 2017, our most significant currency exposures were to the euro, the Canadian dollar and the British pound sterling versus the US dollar. The exchange rates between these and other foreign currencies and the US dollar may fluctuate substantially and such fluctuations have had a significant effect on our results in recent periods. For additional details on our currency exposure and risk management practices, see \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Litigation, Environmental and Tax Regulation Risk. Evolving environmental laws and regulations on hydraulic fracturing and other oil and gas production activities could have an impact on our financial performance.. Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of crude oil and/or natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations, and is primarily presently regulated by state agencies. Many states have adopted laws and/or regulations that require disclosure of the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, and are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on oil and/or natural gas drilling activities as well as regulations relating to waste streams from such activities. The EPA is also moving forward with various related regulatory actions, including regulations requiring, among other matters, \"green completions\" of hydraulically-fractured wells. Similarly, existing and new regulations in the United States and elsewhere relating to oil and gas production could impact the sale of some of our products into these markets.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims and recalls, which could adversely affect our financial condition and performance.. The repackaging, blending, mixing, manufacture, sale and distribution of chemical products by us, including products used in hydraulic fracturing operations and products produced with food ingredients or with pharmaceutical and nutritional supplement applications, involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity, including, without limitation, claims for exposure to our products, spills or escape of our products, personal injuries, food related claims and property damage or environmental claims. A product liability claim, judgment or recall against our customers could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures for us, affect consumer confidence in our products and divert management's attention from other responsibilities. Although we maintain product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the type or level of coverage is adequate or that we will be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a partially or completely uninsured judgment against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. We are subject to extensive general and product-specific environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Compliance with and changes to these environmental, health and safety laws, including laws relating to the investigation and remediation of contamination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions because we blend, manage, handle, store, sell, transport and arrange for the disposal of chemicals, hazardous materials and hazardous waste. These include laws and regulations governing our management, storage, transportation and disposal of chemicals; product regulation; air, water and soil contamination; and the investigation and cleanup of contaminated sites, including any spills or releases that may result from our management, handling, storage, sale, transportation of chemicals and other products. We hold a number of environmental permits and licenses. Compliance with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses requires that we expend. 28. Table of Contents. significant amounts for ongoing compliance, investigation and remediation. If we fail to comply with such laws, regulations, permits or licenses we may be subject to fines and other civil, administrative or criminal sanctions, including the revocation of permits and licenses necessary to continue our business activities.. Previous operations, including those of acquired companies, have resulted in contamination at a number of current and former sites, which must be investigated and remediated. We are currently investigating and/or remediating contamination, or contributing to cleanup costs, at approximately 130 currently or formerly owned, operated or used sites or other sites impacted by our operations. We have spent substantial sums on such investigation and remediation and we expect to continue to incur such expenditures in the future. Based on current estimates, we believe that these ongoing investigation and remediation costs will not materially affect our business. There is no guarantee, however, that our estimates will be accurate, that new contamination will not be discovered or that new environmental laws or regulations will not require us to incur additional costs. Any such inaccuracies, discoveries or new laws or regulations, or the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, we reserved approximately $89.2 million for probable and reasonably estimable losses associated with remediation at currently or formerly owned, operated or used sites or other sites impacted by our operations. We may incur losses in connection with investigation and remediation obligations that exceed our environmental reserve. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Environmental Liabilities\" in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. We also may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions and investigation and remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations, for violations under environmental, health and safety laws or permit requirements.. We could be held liable for the costs to investigate, remediate or otherwise address contamination at any real property we have ever owned, leased, operated or used or other sites impacted by our operations. Some environmental laws could impose on us the entire cost of cleanup of contamination present at a site even though we did not cause all of the contamination. These laws often identify parties who can be strictly and jointly and severally liable for remediation. The discovery of previously unknown contamination at current or former sites or the imposition of other environmental liabilities or obligations in the future, including additional investigation or remediation obligations with respect to contamination that has impacted other properties, could lead to additional costs or the need for additional reserves that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to pay damages or civil judgments related to third party claims, including those relating to personal injury (including exposure to hazardous materials or chemicals we blend, handle, store, sell, transport or dispose of), product quality issues, property damage or contribution to remedial obligations.. We have been identified as potentially responsible parties at various third party sites at which we have arranged for the disposal of our hazardous wastes. We may be identified as a potentially responsibility party at additional sites beyond those for which we currently have financial obligations. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See \"Business - Regulatory Matters - Environmental, Health and Safety Matters\" in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Certain agreements to which we are a party contain contractual provisions pursuant to which we agreed to indemnify other parties for contamination at certain real property. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to environmental indemnity claims asserted by other parties with respect to contamination at sites we have ever owned, leased, operated or used. We could incur significant costs in addressing existing and future environmental indemnification claims.. Societal concerns regarding the safety of chemicals in commerce and their potential impact on the environment have resulted in a growing trend towards increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection regulations. These concerns have led to, and could continue to result in, stringent regulatory intervention by governmental authorities. In addition, these concerns could influence public perceptions, impact the commercial viability of the products we sell and increase the costs to comply with increasingly complex regulations, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional findings by government agencies that chemicals pose significant environmental, health or safety risks may lead to their prohibition in some or all of the jurisdictions in which we operate.. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations vary significantly from country to country and change frequently. Future changes in laws and regulations, or the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, could have an adverse effect on us by adding restrictions, reducing our ability to do business, increasing our costs of doing business or reducing our profitability or reducing the demand for our products. See \"Business - Regulatory Matters - Environmental, Health and Safety Matters\" in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Current and future laws and regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions enacted in the United States, Europe and other jurisdictions around the world could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Increased energy costs due to such laws and regulations, emissions associated with our customers' products or development of alternative products having lower emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants could materially affect demand for our customers' products and indirectly affect our business. Changes in and introductions of regulations have in the past caused us to. 29. Table of Contents. devote significant management and capital resources to compliance programs and measures, and future regulations applicable to us would likely further increase these compliance costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to additional general regulatory requirements and tax requirements which increase our cost of doing business, could result in regulatory, unclaimed property or tax claims, and could restrict our business in the future.. Our general business operations are subject to a broad spectrum of general regulatory requirements, including antitrust regulations, food and drug regulations, human resources regulations, tax regulations, unclaimed property, banking and treasury regulations, among others. These regulations add cost to our conduct of business and could, in some instances, result in claims or enforcement actions or could reduce our ability to pursue business opportunities. Future changes could result in additional costs and restrictions to our business activities. We are currently undergoing a multi-state unclaimed property audit, the timing and outcome of which cannot be predicted; we will incur significant professional fees in connection with the audit and if we are found not to be in compliance the auditing states may seek significant remittances and other penalties and interest.. We are subject to asbestos claims.. In connection with our purchase of McKesson Chemical Company in 1986, our wholly-owned subsidiary Univar USA Inc. is obligated to indemnify McKesson for claims alleging injury from exposure to asbestos-containing products by McKesson Chemical Company. As of December 31, 2017, we are defending lawsuits by more than one hundred plaintiffs claiming asbestos related injuries, including a small number of which name us as a defendant. See \"Business - Legal Proceedings - Asbestos Claims\" in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2017, Univar USA has not recorded a liability related to the pending litigation as any potential loss is neither probable nor estimable. Although our costs of defense to date have not been material, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these lawsuits, which, if determined adversely to us, may result in liability that would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, if the number of asbestos claims for which we are obligated to indemnify McKesson, or the number of asbestos claims naming us, were to increase substantially, particularly if the increase were associated with a significant increase in the average cost per lawsuit, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our business is subject to many operational risks for which we might not be adequately insured or prevail in any claim dispute.. We are exposed to risks including, but not limited to, accidents, contamination and environmental damage, safety claims, natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war and civil unrest and other events that could potentially interrupt our business operations and/or result in significant costs. Although we attempt to cover these risks with insurance to the extent that we consider appropriate, we may incur losses that are not covered by insurance or exceed the maximum amounts covered by our insurance policies. Even if our insurance coverage is appropriate, our insurers may contest, and prevail in litigation regarding, and claims.  We have incurred environmental risks and losses, often from our historic activities, for which we have no available or remaining insurance.. Damage to a major facility, whether or not insured, could impair our ability to operate our business in a geographic region and cause loss of business and related expenses. From time to time, insurance for chemical risks have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, not available at all. In the future we may not be able to maintain our current coverages. Due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced and may experience in the future, increased deductible retention levels and increased premiums. As we assume more risk through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our insurance reserves and expense. Increased insurance premiums or our incurrence of significant uncovered losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to ongoing litigation and other legal and regulatory actions and risks in the ordinary course of our business, and we could incur significant liabilities and substantial legal fees.. We are subject to the risk of litigation, other legal claims and proceedings, and regulatory enforcement actions in the ordinary course of our business. Also, there may be safety or personal injury risks related to our products which are not known today. The results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. We cannot guarantee that the results of current or future legal proceedings against McKesson and a few claims asserted directly against Univar USA Inc. will not materially harm our business, reputation or brand, nor can we guarantee that we will not incur losses in connection with current or future legal proceedings that exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such proceedings or that exceed any applicable insurance coverage. We also cannot guarantee that any tax assessment previously made against us by the Canada Revenue Agency will not result in a material tax liability or that the issues raised by Customs and Border Patrol will not result in a material liability. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See \"Business - Legal Proceedings\" in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 30. Table of Contents. Many of the products we sell have \"long-tail\" exposures, giving rise to liabilities many years after their sale and use. Insurance purchased at the time of sale may not be available when costs arise in the future and producers may no longer be available to provide indemnification.. Employee and Benefit Plan Risk. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of these individuals, or are unable to attract new talent, our business will be adversely affected.. We depend upon the ability and experience of a number of our executive management and other key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the chemicals and chemical distribution industries and the selected markets in which we operate. The loss of the services of one or a combination of our senior executives or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We also might suffer an additional impact on our business if one of our senior executives or key employees is hired by a competitor. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified management and technical and clerical personnel as we grow. We may not be able to continue to attract or retain such personnel in the future.. Negative developments affecting our pension plans and multi-employer pension plans in which we participate may occur.. We operate a number of pension plans for our employees and have obligations with respect to several multi-employer pension plans sponsored by labor unions in the United States. The terms of these plans vary from country to country. Generally, our defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities and other investments. Among other factors, changes in interest rates, investment returns, the market value of plan assets and actuarial assumptions can (1) affect the level of plan funding; (2) cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost; and (3) increase our future contribution requirements. In or following an economic environment characterized by declining investment returns and interest rates, we may be required to make additional cash contributions to our pension plans to satisfy our funding requirements and recognize further increases in our net periodic benefit cost. A significant decrease in investment returns or the market value of plan assets or a significant decrease in interest rates could increase our net periodic benefit costs and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our pension plans in the United States and certain other countries are not fully funded. The funded status of our pension plans is equal to the difference between the value of plan assets and projected benefit obligations. At December 31, 2017, our pension plans had an underfunded status of $226.7 million. This amount could increase or decrease depending on factors such as those mentioned above. Changes to the funded status of our pension plans as a result of updates to actuarial assumptions and actual experience that differs from our estimates will be recognized as gains or losses in the period incurred under our \"mark to market\" accounting policy, and could result in a requirement for additional funding which would have a direct effect on our cash position. Based on current projections of minimum funding requirements, we expect to make cash contributions of $39.1 million to our defined benefit pension plans in 2018. The timing for any such requirement in future years is uncertain given the implicit uncertainty regarding the future developments of factors mentioned above. The union sponsored multi-employer pension plans in which we participate are also underfunded, including the substantially underfunded Teamsters Central States, Southeast and Southwest Pension Plan, which has liabilities at a level twice that of its assets. This requires us to make often substantial withdrawal liability payments when we close a facility covered by one of these plans, which could hinder our ability to make otherwise appropriate management decisions to operate as efficiently as possible.. A portion of our workforce is unionized and labor disruptions could decrease our profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 590 employees in the United States subject to various collective bargaining agreements, most of which have a three-year term. In addition, in several of our international facilities, particularly those in Europe, employees are represented by works councils appointed pursuant to local law consisting of employee representatives who have certain rights to negotiate working terms and to receive notice of significant actions. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 25% of our labor force is covered by a collective bargaining agreement, including approximately 14% of our labor force in the United States, approximately 20% of our labor force in Canada and approximately 46% of our labor force in Europe, and approximately 4% of our labor force is covered by a collective bargaining agreement that will expire within one year. These arrangements grant certain protections to employees and subject us to employment terms that are similar to collective bargaining agreements. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to negotiate these or other collective bargaining agreements or arrangements with works councils on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements or arrangements, or at all, and without interruptions, including labor stoppages at the facility or facilities subject to any particular agreement or arrangement. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 31. Table of Contents. Changes in legislation, regulation and government policy may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future.. Elections in the United States and other democracies in which we conduct business could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy directly affecting our business or indirectly affecting us because of impacts on our customers and producers.  Legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material direct or indirect impact on us include, but are not limited to, disallowances of income tax deductions, taxes or other restrictions repatriating foreign earnings, restrictions on imports and exports, modifications to international trade policy, including withdrawal from trade agreements, environmental regulation, changes to immigration policy, changes to health insurance legislation and the imposition of tariffs and other taxes on imports. We are currently unable to predict whether such changes will occur and, if so, the ultimate impact on our business. To the extent that such changes have a negative impact on us, our producers or our customers, including as a result of related uncertainty, these changes may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional debt in the future, which could substantially reduce our profitability, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities and reduce the value of your investment.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $2,277.8 million of debt outstanding under our $2,283.5 million US dollar term loan facility (the \"New Senior Term Loan Facility\"), $171.7 million of debt outstanding under our $1,300.0 million Senior ABL credit facility and $100.0 million senior ABL term loan facility (the \"Senior ABL Facility\"), no borrowings outstanding under our \200200.0 million senior European ABL facility (the \"European ABL Facility\") with approximately $681.4 million available for additional borrowing under these facilities and $399.5 million outstanding under Univar USA Inc.'s 6.75% senior notes due 2023 (the \"Unsecured Notes\"). Subject to certain limitations set forth in the agreements that govern these facilities and notes, we or our subsidiaries may incur additional debt in the future, or other obligations that do not constitute indebtedness, which could increase the risks described below and lead to other risks. The amount of our debt or such other obligations could have important consequences for holders of our common stock, including, but not limited to:. • our ability to satisfy obligations to lenders or noteholders may be impaired, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of our indebtedness;. • our ability to obtain additional financing for refinancing of existing indebtedness, working capital, capital expenditures, including costs associated with our international expansion, product and service development, acquisitions, general corporate purposes and other purposes may be impaired;. • our assets that currently serve as collateral for our debt may be insufficient, or may not be available, to support future financings;. • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be used to repay the principal and interest on our debt;. • we may be increasingly vulnerable to economic downturns and increases in interest rates;. • our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we operate may be limited; and. • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry with less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain operating covenants and restrictions that limit our operations and could lead to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with them.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain certain operating covenants and other restrictions relating to, among other things, limitations on indebtedness (including guarantees of additional indebtedness) and liens, mergers, consolidations and dissolutions, sales of assets, investments and acquisitions, dividends and other restricted payments, repurchase of shares of capital stock and options to purchase shares of capital stock and certain transactions with affiliates. In addition, our Senior ABL Facility and European ABL Facility include certain financial covenants.. The restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility.. Failure to comply with these financial and operating covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the pricing of our products, our success at implementing cost reduction. 32. Table of Contents. initiatives, our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy or changes in general economic conditions, which may be beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the agreements that govern these facilities that would permit the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay such amounts, lenders having secured obligations could proceed against the collateral securing these obligations. The collateral includes the capital stock of our domestic subsidiaries, 65% of the capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries and substantially all of our and our subsidiaries' other tangible and intangible assets, subject in each case to certain exceptions. This could have serious consequences on our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or otherwise insolvent. In addition, these covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that we believe would otherwise be in the best interests of our business and stockholders.. Increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability.. Our debt outstanding under the Senior Term Loan Facility, Senior ABL Facility and European ABL Facility bears interest at variable rates. As a result, increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. For additional information on our indebtedness, debt service obligations and sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations, see \"Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all.. We have historically relied on debt financing to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. The market conditions and the macroeconomic conditions that affect the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure financing on acceptable terms, if at all. We may be unable to secure additional financing on favorable terms or at all and our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under the indebtedness outstanding from time to time. The terms of additional financing may limit our financial and operating flexibility. Our ability to satisfy our financial obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, the availability of credit generally, economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, if financing is not available when needed, or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, including shares of common stock sold in this offering. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock may depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock may decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. All of the 40,250,000 shares sold pursuant to our IPO in June 2015, the 4,500,000 shares we registered on July 29, 2016, the 20,943,741 shares we registered on August 15, 2016, the 12,500,000 shares we registered on December 12, 2016, the 15,000,000 shares we registered on January 31, 2017 and the 10,000,000 shares we registered on December 14, 2017 are immediately tradable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), unless held by \"affiliates\", as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The remaining shares of outstanding common stock are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, but will be eligible for resale subject, in certain cases, to applicable volume, means of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144 or pursuant to an exception from registration under Rule 701 under the Securities Act, subject to the terms of the lock-up agreements entered. 33. Table of Contents. into by the Significant Stockholders, our directors and certain of our key executive officers. The underwriter may, at any time, release all or any portion of the shares subject to lock-up agreements entered into in connection with this offering.. We have also filed a registration statement under the Securities Act to register the shares of common stock to be issued under our equity compensation plans and, as a result, all shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of stock options granted under our plans are also freely tradable under the Securities Act, unless purchased by our affiliates. In addition, certain of our significant stockholders may distribute the shares that they hold to their investors who themselves may then sell into the public market. Such sales may not be subject to the volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. As resale restrictions end, the market price of our common stock could decline if the holders of those shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. In the future, we may also issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement or employee arrangement or otherwise. Any of these issuances could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. Dahlia Investments Pte. Ltd. (\"Dahlia\"), an indirectly wholly owned subsidiary of Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited purchased $350.0 million of newly issued shares of our common stock from us and 5,000,000 shares of our common stock from Univar N.V. concurrently with the IPO. The shares of our common stock sold in the concurrent private placement were not registered under the Securities Act. As a result, the shares of our common stock purchased by Dahlia are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, but are eligible for resale subject to applicable restrictions under Rule 144 or pursuant to any other exemption from registration under the Securities Act. In addition, Dahlia holds certain registration rights with respect to the shares they purchased in the concurrent private placement pursuant to the Fourth Amended and Restated Stockholders' Agreement of Univar Inc., (the \"Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement\") pursuant to which the Significant Stockholders (as defined below) and certain other stockholders were granted certain registration rights. In December 2016 and January 2017, Dahlia exercised its registration rights under the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement and sold 4,475,627 shares and 4,000,000 shares of our common stock, respectively.. Significant stockholders have the right to nominate members of our Board of Directors and may exercise significant control over the direction of our business. To the extent ownership of our common stock continues to be held by stockholders with these rights, it could prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions.. Investment funds associated with Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, LLC (\"CD&R\") beneficially own approximately 8.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. CD&R continues to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval for the foreseeable future, including approval of significant corporate transactions, which may reduce the market price of our common stock.. Under the Amended and Restated Stockholders' Agreement, CD&R is entitled to nominate up to three sponsor directors and three independent directors under certain circumstances related to continued ownership of the shares they hold. CD&R continues to hold 11,561,039 shares, which allows them to continue to nominate members to our board of directors.. These provisions allow CD&R to continue to exercise significant control over our corporate decisions, including over matters which our other stockholders have a right to vote. Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our Second Amended and Restated Bylaws also include a number of provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control for so long as CD&R owns specified percentages of our common stock. See \" -  Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock.\" These provisions not only could have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock, but could also allow the Significant Stockholders to delay or prevent a corporate transaction that the public stockholders might approve.. Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that we will waive any interest or expectancy in corporate opportunities presented to CD&R.. Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that we, on our behalf and on behalf of our subsidiaries, renounce and waive any interest or expectancy in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, corporate opportunities that are from time to time presented to CD&R, or their respective officers, directors, agents, stockholders, members, partners, affiliates or subsidiaries, even if the opportunity is one that we or our subsidiaries might reasonably be deemed to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so. None of CD&R or its respective agents, stockholders, members, partners, affiliates or subsidiaries will generally be liable to us or any of our subsidiaries for breach of any fiduciary or other duty, as a director or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such person pursues, acquires or participates in such corporate opportunity, directs such corporate opportunity to another person or fails to present such corporate opportunity, or information regarding such corporate opportunity, to us or our subsidiaries unless, in the case of any such person who is a director or officer, such corporate opportunity is expressly offered to such director or officer in writing solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer. Stockholders will be deemed to have notice of and consented to this provision of our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.. 34. Table of Contents. This will allow CD&R to compete with us. Strong competition for investment opportunities could result in fewer such opportunities for us. We likely will not always be able to compete successfully with our competitors and competitive pressures or other factors may also result in significant price competition, particularly during industry downturns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company, including with respect to the requirements of and related rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, is expensive and time-consuming, and any delays or difficulties in satisfying these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and our stock price.. We are subject to the reporting and corporate governance requirements, the listing standards of the NYSE and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), which apply to issuers of listed equity, which impose certain compliance costs and obligations upon us. Meeting these standards requires a significant commitment of additional resources and management oversight which increases our operating costs. These requirements also place additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial accounting and information systems. Other expenses associated with being a public company include increases in auditing, accounting and legal fees and expenses, investor relations expenses, increased directors' fees and director and officer liability insurance costs, registrar and transfer agent fees and listing fees, as well as other expenses. As a public company, we are required, among other things, to:. • prepare and file periodic reports, and distribute other stockholder communications, in compliance with the federal securities laws and the NYSE rules;. • define and expand the roles and the duties of our Board of Directors and its committees; and. • institute more comprehensive compliance, investor relations and internal audit functions.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework, and to report on our conclusions as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Likewise, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, we are required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the \"Exchange Act\"), to maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent auditors are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the NYSE or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with Section 404 requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may cause our operations to suffer and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our auditors. Moreover, we cannot be certain that these measures would ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we were to conclude, and our auditors were to concur, that our internal control over financial reporting provided reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. This, in turn, could have an adverse impact on trading prices for our shares of common stock, and could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Second Amended and Restated By-laws include a number of provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Second Amended and Restated By-laws currently:. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt;. • establish a classified Board of Directors, our board is divided into three classes, with each class serving for staggered three-year terms, which prevents stockholders from electing an entirely new Board of Directors at an annual meeting;. • limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors;. 35. Table of Contents. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and. • require the approval of holders of at least 75% of the outstanding shares of our voting common stock to amend the Second Amended and Restated By-laws and certain provisions of the Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt or our stockholders' approval of a proposal to declassify our Board, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. See \"Description of Capital Stock - Anti-Takeover Effects of our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Second Amended and Restated By-laws.\" Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Second Amended and Restated By-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation includes provisions limiting the personal liability of our directors for breaches of fiduciary duty under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and we have entered into Indemnification Agreements which provide further protections to our directors.. Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions permitted under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the \"DGCL\") relating to the liability of directors. These provisions eliminate a director's personal liability to the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL for monetary damages resulting from a breach of fiduciary duty, except in circumstances involving:. • any breach of the director's duty of loyalty;. • acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of the law;. • under Section 174 of the DGCL (unlawful dividends); or. • any transaction from which the director derives an improper personal benefit.. The principal effect of the limitation on liability provision is that a stockholder will be unable to prosecute an action for monetary damages against a director unless the stockholder can demonstrate a basis for liability for which indemnification is not available under the DGCL. These provisions, however, should not limit or eliminate our rights or any stockholder's rights to seek non-monetary relief, such as an injunction or rescission, in the event of a breach of a director's fiduciary duty. These provisions will not alter a director's liability under federal securities laws. The inclusion of this provision in our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit against directors for a breach of their fiduciary duties, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited us and our stockholders.. We have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors and certain of our executive officers. The indemnification agreements provide our directors and certain of our executive officers with contractual rights to the indemnification and expense advancement rights provided under our Second Amended and Restated By-laws, as well as contractual rights to additional indemnification as provided in the indemnification agreements.. Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed to us or our stockholders by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising under the DGCL, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. By becoming a stockholder in our company, you will be deemed to have notice of and have consented to the provisions of our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation related to choice of forum. The choice of forum provision in our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation may limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We do not intend to declare and pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth or repay outstanding indebtedness. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any. 36. Table of Contents. dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will then depend entirely upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. See \"Dividend Policy.\""
