[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. We have a limited operating history and may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability or accurately predict our future results.. We were formed in July 2010 and acquired our first business and commenced operations in September 2011. Prior to September 2011, our business activity was devoted to raising capital, building infrastructure, and reviewing potential acquisitions. As such, we have a very limited operating history of selling our products and professional services to third parties. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects and may increase the risk of your investment. We incurred net losses of $18.7 million, $13.5 million, and $13.7 million in fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $81.1 million. Our losses in prior periods and accumulated deficit reflect the investments we have made to date to grow our business. We expect to have significant operating expenses in the future to further support and grow our business, including expanding the range of integrations between our software and third-party applications and platform, expanding our direct and indirect sales capabilities, pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses, investing in our data center infrastructure and in research and development, and increasing our international presence. As a result, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability or accurately predict our future results. You should not consider our recent growth in revenue as indicative of our future performance, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future, nor that if we do become profitable, we will sustain profitability.. Our growth depends on our ability to retain existing customers, secure additional subscriptions, and cross-sell opportunities from existing customers, while nonrenewals and downgrades could harm our future operating results.. In order to improve our operating results, it is important that our customers renew or upgrade their agreements with us when the applicable contract term expires, and also purchase additional applications from us. Typically contract terms are one to three years for subscription agreements, and one year for perpetual license agreements. Upon expiration, customers can renew their existing subscriptions, upgrade their subscriptions to add more seats or additional minimum contracted volume, downgrade their subscriptions to fewer seats or lower minimum contracted volume, or not renew. A renewal constitutes renewing an existing contract for an application under the same terms, and an upgrade includes purchasing additional seats or volume under an existing contract. We may also cross-sell additional applications to existing customers. Our ability to grow revenue and achieve profitability depends, in part, on customer renewals, customer upgrades, and cross-sales to existing customers exceeding downgrades and non-renewals. However, we may not be able to increase our penetration within our existing customer base as anticipated, and we may not otherwise retain subscriptions from existing customers. Our customers may choose to not renew or upgrade their subscriptions, or may downgrade, because of several factors, including dissatisfaction with our prices, features or performance relative to competitive offerings, reductions in our customers' spending levels, unused seats or volume, or limited adoption or use of our applications. In addition, we may not be successful in cross-selling new applications to our existing customers. If our customers do not upgrade or renew their subscriptions or purchase additional applications from us, or if they downgrade their subscriptions, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or may decline, and our financial performance may be adversely affected.. Any failure to offer high-quality customer service may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results.. Our customers depend on our customer success organization to manage the post-sale customer lifecycle, including to implement new applications for our customers, provide training and ongoing education services, and resolve technical issues relating to our applications. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in demand for our customer success services. We also may be unable to modify the format of our customer success services to compete with changes in similar services provided by our competitors. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and adversely affect our. 16. operating results. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on the reliable functional operation of our applications, our business reputation, and positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality customer service, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality customer service, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our applications to existing and prospective customers, and our business, operating results, and financial position.. If the market for cloud-based enterprise work management applications develops more slowly than we expect, or declines, our business could be adversely affected.. The market for cloud-based enterprise work management applications is not as mature as the market for legacy on-premise enterprise systems, and it is uncertain whether cloud-based applications will achieve and sustain high levels of customer demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend, to a substantial extent, on increased adoption of cloud-based applications, particularly  our enterprise work management software applications. Many large organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate legacy on-premise enterprise systems into their businesses and, therefore, may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to cloud-based applications, away from their traditional vendors or to new practices, because of the organizational changes often required to successfully implement new enterprise work management systems. In addition, we do not know whether the adoption of enterprise work management software will continue to grow and displace manual processes and traditional tools, such as paper-based procedures, spreadsheets, and email. It is difficult to predict customer adoption rates and demand for our applications, the future growth rate and size of the cloud-based software application market, or the entry of competitive products. The expansion of the cloud-based software application market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance, and perceived value associated with cloud-based applications, as well as the ability of cloud-based application companies to address security and privacy concerns. If other cloud-based software application providers experience security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery, or other problems, the market for cloud-based applications as a whole, including our enterprise work management applications, may be negatively affected. If cloud-based applications do not achieve widespread adoption, or there is a reduction in demand for cloud-based applications caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, security or privacy concerns, competing technologies and products, and decreases in corporate spending or otherwise, our revenues may decrease, and our business could be adversely affected.. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan and maintain high levels of customer satisfaction.. We have recently experienced a period of rapid growth in our personnel and operations. In particular, we increased our number of full-time employees from three as of December 31, 2011 to 375 as of December 31, 2017, and have also increased the size of our customer base. In addition, our revenue grew from $712,000 in fiscal 2011 to $98.0 million in fiscal 2017. Acquisitions are a primary component of our growth strategy, and as a result, we anticipate that we will continue to experience further rapid growth in our personnel and operations in the future. Our growth has placed, and future growth will place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial, and other resources. To manage the expected growth of our personnel and operations, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, and our reporting systems and procedures. Failure to effectively manage our growth could result in difficulty or delays in deploying our applications, declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs, and difficulties in introducing new features or other operational difficulties, and any of these difficulties could adversely impact our business performance and results of operations.. We have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions as a primary component of our growth strategy. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms, or we may be unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, which could disrupt our operations and adversely impact our business and operating results.. A primary component of our growth strategy has been to acquire complementary businesses to grow our company. For example, we acquired the businesses of PowerSteering Software, Inc., Tenrox Inc., and LMR Solutions, LLC dba EPM Live in fiscal 2012; the businesses of FileBound Solutions, Inc. and Marex Group Inc., ComSci, LLC, and Clickability Inc. in fiscal 2013; the businesses of Solution Q Inc. and Mobile Commons, Inc. in fiscal 2014; Ultriva Inc. in fiscal 2015; and the businesses of LeadLander, Inc., HipCricket, Inc., and Advanced. 17. Processing and Imaging, Inc. in fiscal 2016. In fiscal 2017, we acquired the businesses of Omtool, Ltd., RightAnswers, Inc., Waterfall International, Inc., and Qvidian Corporation. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary technologies, products, and businesses as a primary component of our growth strategy to enhance the features and functionality of our applications, expand our customer base, provide access to new markets, and increase benefits of scale. Acquisitions involve certain known and unknown risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ from our expectations. For example:. • we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms;. • we may pursue international acquisitions, which inherently pose more risks than domestic acquisitions;. • we compete with others to acquire complementary products, technologies, and businesses, which may result in decreased availability of, or increased price for, suitable acquisition candidates;. • we may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any or all of our potential acquisitions;. • we may ultimately fail to consummate an acquisition even if we announce that we plan to acquire a technology, product, or business; and. • acquired technologies, products, or businesses may not perform as we expect, and we may fail to realize anticipated revenue and profits.. In addition, our acquisition strategy may divert management's attention away from our existing business, resulting in the loss of key customers or employees, and expose us to unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, including responsibility as a successor for undisclosed or contingent liabilities of acquired businesses or assets.. If we fail to conduct due diligence on our potential targets effectively, we may, for example, not identify problems at target companies or fail to recognize incompatibilities or other obstacles to successful integration. Our inability to successfully integrate future acquisitions could impede us from realizing all of the benefits of those acquisitions and could severely weaken our business operations. The integration process may disrupt our business and, if new technologies, products, or businesses are not implemented effectively, may preclude the realization of the full benefits expected by us and could harm our results or operations. In addition, the overall integration of new technologies, products, or businesses may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, and competitive responses. The difficulties of integrating an acquisition include, among other things:. • issues in integrating the target company's technologies, products, or businesses with ours;. • incompatibility of marketing and administration methods;. • maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees;. • integrating the cultures of both companies;. • preserving important strategic customer relationships;. • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; and. • coordinating and integrating geographically separate organizations.. In addition, even if the operations of an acquisition are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies, cost savings, or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.. Further, acquisitions may cause us to:. • issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership percentage;. • use a substantial portion of our cash resources;. • increase our interest expense, leverage, and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition;. • assume liabilities for which we do not have indemnification from the former owners; further, indemnification obligations may be subject to dispute or concerns regarding the creditworthiness of the former owners;. 18. • record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing and potential impairment charges;. • experience volatility in earnings due to changes in contingent consideration related to acquisition earn-out liability estimates;. • incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets;. • lose existing or potential contracts as a result of conflict of interest issues;. • become subject to adverse tax consequences or deferred compensation charges;. • incur large and immediate write-offs; or. • become subject to litigation.. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of one or more key personnel, or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel may impair our ability to grow our business.. Our success depends, in part, upon the continued services of our key executive officers, including John T. McDonald, Michael D. Hill, and Timothy W. Mattox, as well as other key personnel. We do not have employment agreements with most of our executive officers or other key personnel that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period; therefore, they may terminate employment with us at any time with no advance notice. The replacement of our senior management team or other key personnel likely would involve significant time and costs, and the loss of these employees may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives.. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology and software companies. If we fail to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals, including software engineers and sales personnel, our ability to implement our business plan and develop and maintain our applications could be adversely affected. As a result, our ability to compete would decrease, our operating results would suffer, and our revenue would decrease.. Failure to maintain and expand our sales organization may negatively impact our revenue growth.. We sell our applications primarily through a direct sales organization comprised of inside sales and field sales personnel. In addition, we have an indirect sales organization, which sells to distributors and value-added resellers. Growing sales to both new and existing customers is, in part, dependent on our ability to maintain and expand our sales force. Identifying, recruiting and training additional sales personnel requires significant time, expense, and attention. It can take several quarters or longer before our sales representatives are fully-trained and productive. Our business may be adversely affected if our efforts to expand and train our sales organization do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue. In particular, if we are unable to hire, develop, and retain sales personnel, or if our new sales personnel are unable to achieve expected sales productivity levels in a reasonable period of time or at all, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline and our business may be harmed.. Because we generally recognize revenue from our customers over the terms of their agreements but incur most costs associated with generating such agreements in advance, rapid growth in our customer base may increase our losses in the short-term.. Expenses associated with acquiring customers, such as the expenses related to our sales organizations and related commissions, are generally expensed as incurred, while most of our revenue is recognized ratably over the life of the applicable agreements. Therefore, increased sales will result in our recognition of more costs than revenue during the early periods covered by such agreements, even in cases where the agreements are expected to be profitable for us over their full terms. As a result, even if we are successful in increasing our customer base, our short-term operating results may suffer.. We recognize revenue from customers over the term of the related agreement; therefore, downturns or upturns in our business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results.. We recognize revenue from customer agreements ratably over the terms of these agreements. As a result, a significant portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is generated from customer agreements entered into during previous periods, which is reflected as deferred revenue on our balance sheet. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed agreements, or a downgrade of renewed agreements to fewer seats or less minimum contracted volume, in any one quarter may not be fully reflected in our revenue in that quarter. Such a decline, however, will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance. 19. of our applications, and potential changes in our pricing policies or rates of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Similarly, it would be difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through new sales, renewals, and upgrades of existing customer agreements, or through additional cross-selling opportunities, in a given period due to the timing of revenue recognition inherent in our subscription model.. Perpetual license revenue is unpredictable, and a material increase or decrease in perpetual license revenue from period to period can produce substantial variation in the total revenue and earnings we recognize in a given period.. Perpetual license revenue reflects the revenue recognized from sales of perpetual licenses relating to our workflow automation and enterprise content management applications to new customers and additional licenses for such applications to existing customers. We generally recognize the license fee portion of the arrangement in advance. Perpetual licenses of our workflow automation and enterprise content management applications are sold through third-party resellers, and as such, the timing of sales of perpetual licenses is difficult to predict with the timing of recognition of associated revenue unpredictable. A material increase or decrease in the sale of perpetual licenses from period to period could produce substantial variation in the revenue we recognize. Accordingly, comparing our perpetual license revenue on a period to period basis may not be a meaningful indicator of a trend or future results.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly operating results or outlook fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or outlook may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. • the extent to which our existing customers purchase additional seats or volume for our applications, and the timing and terms of those purchases;. • the extent to which our existing customers renew their customer agreements for our applications and the timing and terms of those renewals;. • the extent to which we cross-sell additional applications to our existing customers and the timing and terms of such cross-selling;. • the addition or loss of customers, including through acquisitions or consolidations;. • the extent to which new customers are attracted to our applications to satisfy their enterprise work management needs;. • the rate of adoption and market acceptance of enterprise work management applications;. • the mix of our revenue, particularly between product and professional services revenue, for which the timing of revenue recognition is substantially different;. • changes in the gross profit we realize on our applications and professional services due to our differing revenue recognition policies applicable to subscription, product, and professional services revenue and other variables;. • the extent to which we enter into multi-year contracts, in which the support fees are typically paid in advance;. • the number and size of new customers and the number and size of renewals in a particular period;. • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;. • the mix of applications sold during a period;. • the timing and expenses related to the acquisition of technologies, products, or businesses, and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill from such acquisitions;. 20. • the amount and timing of operating expenses, including those related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure;. • the amount and timing of expenses related to the development of new products and technologies, including enhancements to our applications;. • the amount and timing of commissions earned by our sales personnel;. • the timing and success of new applications introduced by us or new offerings offered by our competitors;. • the length of our sales cycles;. • changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, customers, or strategic collaborators;. • our ability to manage our existing business and future growth, including increases in the number of customers using our applications;. • the seasonality of our business or cyclical fluctuations in our industry;. • the timing and expenses related to any international expansion efforts we may undertake and the success of such efforts;. • various factors related to disruptions in access and delivery of our cloud-based applications, errors or defects in our applications, privacy and data security, and exchange rate fluctuations, each of which is described elsewhere in these risk factors; and. • general economic, industry, and market conditions.. We may need financing in the future, and any additional financing may result in restrictions on our operations or substantial dilution to our stockholders. We may seek to renegotiate or refinance our loan facility, and we may be unable to do so on acceptable terms or at all.. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity financings, cash from operations, and cash available under our loan facility. We may need to raise funds in the future, for example, to expand our business, acquire complementary businesses, develop new technologies, respond to competitive pressures, or react to unanticipated situations. We may try to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships, or other arrangements. Our ability to obtain debt or equity funding will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance, and investor interest. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies, reducing our product-development efforts, or foregoing acquisitions. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, it could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these new securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. In addition, any debt financing obtained by us in the future or issuance of preferred stock could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Additionally, we may need to renegotiate the terms of our loan facility, and our lender may be unwilling to do so, or may agree to such changes subject to additional restrictive covenants on our operations and ability to raise capital.. Our loan facility contains operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities.. On August 2, 2017, we expanded into a $200.0 million loan facility with Wells Fargo Capital Finance. The facility is comprised of a $95.0 million term loan, a $10.0 million revolving credit facility and a $40.0 million delayed draw term loan for acquisitions, of which $20.0 million was drawn in November 2017. Additionally, the facility provides for an uncommitted $55.0 million accordion loan to further support future acquisitions and an allowance of $20.0 million of subordinated seller notes for acquisitions.. 21. Our obligations and the obligations of the co-borrowers and any guarantors under the Wells Fargo loan facility are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our assets and assets of the co-borrowers' and of any guarantors, including intellectual property. The terms of the credit facility limits, among other things, our ability to. •sell, lease, license or otherwise dispose of assets;. •undergo a change in control;. •consolidate or merge with or into other entities;. •make or own loans, investments and acquisitions;. •create, incur or assume guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;. •create, incur or assume liens and other encumbrances; or. •pay dividends or make distributions on, or purchase or redeem, our capital stock.. Furthermore, the Wells Fargo loan facility requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with certain financial covenants. The operating and other restrictions and covenants in the loan facility, and in any future financing arrangements that we may enter into, may restrict our ability to finance our operations, engage in certain business activities, or expand or fully pursue our business strategies, or otherwise limit our discretion to manage our business. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those restrictions and covenants. A breach of any of the restrictions and covenants could result in a default under the loan facility or any future financing arrangements, which could cause any outstanding indebtedness under the loan facility or under any future financing arrangements to become immediately due and payable, and result in the termination of commitments to extend further credit.. If we are unable to increase market awareness of our company and our applications, our revenue may not continue to grow, or may decline.. Market awareness of our company and our applications is essential to our ability to generate new leads for expanding our business and our continued growth. If we fail to sufficiently invest in our marketing programs or they are unsuccessful in creating market awareness of our company and our applications, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or may decline, and our financial performance may be adversely affected.. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected.. The overall market for enterprise work management software is rapidly evolving and subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new applications. The intensity and nature of our competition varies significantly across our family of enterprise work management software applications. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater brand name recognition, longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets, and significantly greater resources than we do. Some of our smaller competitors may offer applications on a stand-alone basis at a lower price than our price due to lower overhead or other factors, while some of our larger competitors may offer applications at a lower price in an attempt to cross-sell additional products in the future or retain a customer using a different application.. We believe there are a limited number of direct competitors that provide a comprehensive enterprise work management software offering. However, we face competition both from point solution providers, including legacy on-premise enterprise systems, and other cloud-based work management software vendors that may address one or more of the functional elements of our applications, but are not designed to address a broad range of enterprise work management needs. In addition, we face competition from manual processes and traditional tools, such as paper-based techniques, spreadsheets, and email.. If our competitors' products, service, or technologies become more accepted than our enterprise work management applications, if they are successful in bringing their products or services to market earlier than ours, or if their products or services are more technologically capable than ours, our revenues could be adversely affected.. 22. Mergers of, or other strategic transactions by, our competitors could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenue.. If one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. In order to take advantage of customer demand for cloud-based software applications, vendors of legacy systems are expanding their cloud-based enterprise workplace management applications through acquisitions and internal development. A potential result of such expansion is that certain of our current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources and the ability to further invest in product improvements and initiate or withstand substantial price competition. Our competitors also may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future value-added resellers, third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our applications. Disruptions in our business caused by these events could reduce our revenue.. Our growth and long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand our international sales and operations.. As our operations have expanded, we have established and currently maintain offices in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. We have limited experience in operating in foreign jurisdictions and expect to continue to expand our relationship with international customers. Managing a global organization is difficult, time-consuming and expensive, and any international efforts that we may undertake may not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to risks, including the following:. • uncertain political and economic climates;. • lack of familiarity and burdens of complying with foreign laws, accounting and legal standards, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers;. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions;. • lack of experience in connection with the localization of our applications, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices, and associated expenses and regulatory requirements;. • difficulties in adapting to differing technology standards;. • longer sales cycles and accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;. • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations, including differing legal and cultural expectations for employee relationships, and increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with international operations;. • fluctuations in exchange rates that may increase the volatility of our foreign-based revenue and expenses;. • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value-added tax, goods and services tax and other transactional taxes;. • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. • difficulties in managing and adapting to differing cultures and customs;. • data privacy laws that require customer data to be stored and processed in a designated territory subject to laws different than the United States;. • data privacy laws that require certain opt-in steps and restrict use and sharing of personally identifiable information than those required by the U.S. privacy laws;. • new and different sources of competition as well as laws and business practices favoring local competitors and local employees;. • compliance with anti-bribery laws, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; and. • restrictions on the repatriation of earnings.. 23. Further, our international expansion efforts may be hindered by lower levels of cloud adoption and increased price sensitivity for our applications or other cloud-based offerings in international markets. As a result of these and other factors, international expansion may be more difficult, take longer, and not generate the results we anticipate, which could negatively impact our growth and business.. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of foreign currencies could result in losses on currency transactions.. Our customers are generally invoiced in the currency of the country in which they are located. In addition, we incur a portion of our operating expenses in foreign currencies, including Canadian dollars, British pounds and Euros, and in the future, as we expand into other foreign countries, we expect to incur operating expenses in other foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of our international operations are translated from the local functional currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. A decline in the U.S. dollar relative to foreign functional currencies would increase our non-U.S. revenue and improve our operating results. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to foreign functional currencies, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. We have not previously engaged in foreign currency hedging. If we decide to hedge our foreign currency exchange rate exposure, we may not be able to hedge effectively due to lack of experience, unreasonable costs, or illiquid markets.. Our sales cycles can be lengthy and variable, which may cause changes in our operating results.. Our sales cycle can vary substantially from customer to customer. A number of factors influence the length and variability of our sales cycles, including, for example:. • the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our applications;. • the duration of the commitment customers make in their agreements with us, which are typically one to three years;. • the discretionary nature of potential customers' purchasing and budget cycles and decisions;. • the competitive nature of potential customers' evaluation and purchasing processes;. • the functionality demands of potential customers;. • fluctuations in the enterprise work management needs of potential customers;. • the announcement or planned introduction of new products by us or our competitors; and. • the purchasing approval processes of potential customers.. Our sales cycles can make it difficult to predict the quarter in which revenue from a new customer may first be recognized. We may incur significant sales and marketing expenses and invest significant time and effort in anticipation of a sale that may never occur or only occur in a smaller amount or at a later date than anticipated. Delays inherent to our sales cycles could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period.. We have a limited history with our pricing models, and as a result, we may be forced to change the prices we charge for our applications or the pricing models upon which they are based.. We have limited experience with respect to determining the optimal prices and pricing models for certain of our applications and certain geographic markets. As the markets for our applications mature, or as competitors introduce products or services that compete with ours, including bundling competing offerings with additional products or services, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing models as we have used historically. As a result, in the future we may be required to reduce our prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, we may offer volume price discounts based on the number of seats purchased by a customer or the number of our applications purchased by a customer, which would effectively reduce the prices we charge for our applications. Also, we may be unable to renew existing customer agreements or enter into new customer agreements at the same prices or upon the same terms that we have historically, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position.. Any disruption of service at the data centers that house our equipment and deliver our applications or with our hosting service provider could harm our business.. 24. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain, and serve our customer is dependent upon the reliable performance of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. These systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm these systems. Interruptions in these systems, or with the Internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver application data to our customers. Service interruptions, errors in our software, or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our applications to existing and potential customers.. Our servers and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions.  We have implemented security protocols within our applications; however, we have no assurance that our systems are completely secure. Our insurance does not cover expenses related to disruptions to our service or unauthorized access to our applications. Any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of customers and adversely affect our business and results of operation.. We utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party Web hosting provider. In addition, we utilize third-party hosting services in connection with our business operations and have migrated our applications to Amazon Web Services (AWS), a third-party hosting platform. Problems faced by us or our third-party hosting providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, could adversely impact the experience of our customers.. If we fail to adequately manage our data center or hosting infrastructure capacity, our existing customers may experience service outages, and our new customers may experience delays in the deployment of our applications.. We have experienced significant growth in the number of seats and volume of data that our hosting infrastructure supports. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our operations infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our customers. We also seek to maintain excess capacity to facilitate the rapid provision of new customer deployments and the expansion of existing customer deployments. However, obtaining new data center infrastructure requires lead time. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements with sufficient lead time, our customers could experience service impairment that may subject us to financial penalties and liabilities and cause us to lose customers. If our data center infrastructure capacity fails to keep pace with increased subscriptions, customers may experience delays or reductions in the quality of our service as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could harm our reputation and harm our business.  As we add data center or hosting infrastructure capacity and support personnel in advance of anticipated growth, our cost of product revenue will increase, and if the anticipated revenue growth does not occur, our product gross profit will be adversely affected both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of total revenues in any particular quarterly or annual period.. Security breaches may harm our business.. Our applications involve the storage and transmission of our customers' proprietary and confidential information, including personal or identifying information regarding their employees and customers. Any security breaches, unauthorized access, unauthorized usage, virus, or similar breach or disruption could result in loss of confidential information, damage to our reputation, early termination of our contracts, litigation, regulatory investigations, indemnity obligations, or other liabilities. If our security measures or those of our third-party data centers are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, resulting in unauthorized access to customer data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer, and we could incur significant liability. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively affect our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect not to renew or upgrade their subscriptions, result in reputational damage, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines, or other action or liability, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Our success depends on our ability to adapt to technological change and continue to innovate.. 25. The overall market for enterprise work management software is rapidly evolving and subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs, and frequent introductions of new applications. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend, in large part, on our ability to develop or acquire new applications and enhance and improve existing applications. To achieve market acceptance for our applications, we must effectively anticipate and offer applications that meet changing customer demands in a timely manner. Customers may require features and capabilities not offered by our current applications. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, acquisition, or implementation of new applications and enhancements.. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new enterprise work management capabilities and functionality, enhance our existing applications to anticipate and meet customer preferences, sell our applications into new markets, or adapt to changing industry standards in enterprise work management, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Adverse economic conditions may reduce our customers' ability to spend money on information technology or enterprise work management software, or our customers may otherwise choose to reduce their spending on information technology or enterprise work management software, which may adversely impact our business.. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and enterprise work management software spend and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. If worldwide economic conditions become unstable, our existing customers and prospective customers may re-evaluate their decision to purchase our applications. Weak global economic conditions or a reduction in information technology or enterprise work management software spending by our customers could harm our business in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles and lower prices for our applications.. We rely on third-party software that is required for the development and deployment of our applications, which may be difficult to obtain or which could cause errors or failures of our applications.. We rely on software licensed from or hosted by third parties to offer our applications. In addition, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to use intellectual property associated with the development of our applications, which might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any software required for the development, maintenance, and delivery of our applications could result in delays in the provision of our applications until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our applications, which could harm our business.. If our applications contain serious errors or defects, we may lose revenue and market acceptance, and we may incur costs to defend or settle product-related claims.. Complex software applications such as ours often contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Our current and future applications may contain serious defects.. Since our customers use our applications for critical business purposes, defects or other performance problems could negatively impact our customers and could result in:. • loss or delayed market acceptance and sales;. • breach of warranty or other claims for damages;. • sales credits or refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused subscription services;. • canceled contracts and loss of customers;. • diversion of development and customer service resources; and. • injury to our reputation.. The costs incurred in correcting any material errors or defects might be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. Although our customer agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to certain of the claims above, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitations. Even if not successful, a breach of warranty or other claim brought against us would likely be a. 26. distraction to management, time-consuming and costly to resolve, and could seriously damage our reputation in the marketplace, making it harder for us to sell our applications. Additionally, our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all, and our policy may not cover all claims made against us. Further, defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management's attention.. If we fail to integrate our applications with other software applications and competitive or adjacent offerings that are developed by others, or fail to make our applications available on mobile and other handheld devices, our applications may become less marketable, less competitive or obsolete, and our operating results could be harmed.. Our applications integrate with a variety of other software applications, and also with competing and adjacent third-party offerings,. We need to continuously modify and enhance our platform to adapt to changes in cloud-enabled hardware, software, networking, browser and database technologies. Any failure of our applications to integrate effectively with other software applications and product offerings could reduce the demand for our applications or result in customer dissatisfaction and harm to our business. If we are unable to respond to changes in the applications and tools with which our applications integrate in a cost-effective manner, our applications may become less marketable, less competitive, or obsolete. Competitors may also impede our attempts to create integration between our applications and competitive offerings, which may decrease demand for our applications. In addition, an increasing number of individuals within organizations are utilizing devices other than personal computers, such as mobile phones, tablets and other handheld devices, to access the Internet and corporate resources and to conduct business. If we cannot effectively make our applications available on these devices, we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining customers.. If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with third parties, our business may be harmed.. Our business depends in part on the development and maintenance of technology integration, joint sales, and reseller relationships. Maintaining relationships with third parties requires significant time and resources, as does integrating third-party content and technology. Further, third parties may not perform as expected under any relationships into which we may enter, and we may have disagreements or disputes with third parties that could negatively affect our brand and reputation. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining relationships with third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired, and our operating results could suffer.. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell our applications and subject us to possible litigation.. A portion of our applications incorporate open source software, and we expect to continue to incorporate open source software in the future. Few of the licenses applicable to open source software have been interpreted by courts, and their application to the open source software integrated into our proprietary software may be uncertain. Moreover, we cannot provide any assurance that we have not incorporated additional open source software in our applications in a manner that is inconsistent with the terms of the license or our current policies and procedures. If we fail to comply with these licenses, we may be subject to certain requirements, including requirements that we offer our applications that incorporate the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of applicable open source licenses. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our applications that contained the open source software, and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our applications. In addition, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement due to the reliance by our applications on certain open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition, or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our applications.. 27. Certain of our operating results and financial metrics are difficult to predict as a result of seasonality.. We have historically experienced seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements. We sign a significantly higher percentage of agreements with new customers, and renew agreements with existing customers, in the fourth quarter of each calendar year as our customers tend to follow budgeting cycles at the end of the calendar year. Our cash flow from operations has historically been higher in the first quarter of each calendar year than in other quarters. This seasonality is reflected to a much lesser extent, and sometimes is not immediately apparent, in our revenue, due to the fact that we defer revenue recognition. In addition, seasonality may be difficult to observe in our financial results during periods in which we acquire businesses, as such results typically are most significantly impacted by such acquisitions. We expect this seasonality to continue, or possibly increase in the future, which may cause fluctuations in our operating results and financial metrics. If our quarterly operating results or outlook fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially.. We could incur substantial costs as a result of any claim of infringement of another party's intellectual property rights.. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in our industry. Companies providing software are increasingly bringing and becoming subject to suits alleging infringement of proprietary rights, particularly patent rights, and to the extent we gain greater market visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. We do not have a significant patent portfolio, which could prevent us from deterring patent infringement claims through our own patent portfolio, and our competitors and others may now and in the future have significantly larger and more mature patent portfolios than we have. The risk of patent litigation has been amplified by the increase in the number of a type of patent holder, which we refer to as a non-practicing entity, whose sole business is to assert such claims and against whom our own intellectual property portfolio may provide little deterrent value. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending any intellectual property litigation. If we sue to enforce our rights or are sued by a third-party that claims that our applications infringe its rights, the litigation could be expensive and could divert our management resources. Moreover, our acquisition strategy could expose us to additional risk of intellectual property litigation as we acquire new businesses with diverse software offerings and intellectual property assets.. In addition, in most instances, we have agreed to indemnify our customers against claims that our applications infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant disputes between us and our customers as to the applicability or scope of our indemnification obligations to them. Any intellectual property litigation to which we might become a party, or for which we are required to provide indemnification, may require us to do one or more of the following:. • cease selling or using applications that incorporate the intellectual property that we allegedly infringe;. • make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement payments or other costs or damages;. • obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, to sell or use the relevant technology; or. • redesign the allegedly infringing applications to avoid infringement, which could be costly, time-consuming or impossible.. If we are required to make substantial payments or undertake any of the other actions noted above as a result of any intellectual property infringement claims against us or any obligation to indemnify our customers for such claims, such payments or actions could harm our business.. We could incur substantial costs in protecting our intellectual property from infringement, and any failure to protect our intellectual property could impair our business.. Our success and ability to compete depend, in part, upon our intellectual property. We seek to protect the source code for our proprietary software and other proprietary technology and information under a combination of copyright, trade secrets, and patent law, and we seek to protect our brands through trademark law. Our policy is to enter into confidentiality agreements, or agreements with confidentiality provisions, with our employees, consultants, vendors, and customers, and to control access to our software, documentation, and other proprietary. 28. information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized parties to copy our software or other proprietary technology or information, or to develop similar software independently.. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our applications or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our applications is difficult, and we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software exists or will occur in the future. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could be costly, time-consuming, and distracting to management, result in a diversion of resources or the narrowing or invalidation of portions of our intellectual property, and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights or alleging that we infringe the counterclaimant's own intellectual property. These steps may be inadequate to protect our intellectual property. Third parties may challenge the validity or ownership of our intellectual property, and these challenges could cause us to lose our rights, in whole or in part, to such intellectual property or narrow its scope such that it no longer provides meaningful protection. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer, and disclosure of our applications may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying, transfer, and use of our applications and proprietary technology or information may increase.. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. If we fail to meaningfully protect our intellectual property, our business, brands, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed.. Unanticipated challenges by tax authorities could harm our future results.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various non-U.S. jurisdictions. We may be subject to income tax audits by various tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of cloud-based companies. The application of tax laws in such jurisdictions may be subject to diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations by tax authorities in these jurisdictions. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period.. Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or, in the future, should collect additional sales and use taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to past or future sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We have not historically filed sales and use tax returns or collected sales and use taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable. Taxing authorities may seek to impose such taxes on us, including for past sales, which could result in penalties and interest. Any such tax assessments may adversely affect the results of our operations.. Taxing authorities could reallocate our taxable income among our subsidiaries, which could increase our consolidated tax liability.. We conduct integrated operations internationally through subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions pursuant to transfer pricing arrangements between our subsidiaries and between our subsidiaries and us. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally require that transfer prices be the same as those between unrelated companies dealing at arms' length and that contemporaneous documentation is maintained to support the transfer prices. While we believe that we operate in compliance with applicable transfer pricing laws and intend to continue to do so, our transfer pricing procedures are not binding on. 29. applicable tax authorities. If tax authorities in any of these countries were to successfully challenge our transfer prices as not reflecting arms' length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices, which could result in a higher tax liability to us. Such reallocations may subject us to interest and penalties that would increase our consolidated tax liability, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $181.9 million and research and development credit carryforwards of approximately $3.9 million, which begin expiring in 2018. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre- change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited. In general, an \"ownership change\" occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by \"5% shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules apply under state tax laws. Based on analysis of acquired net operating losses and credits, utilization of our net operating losses and research and development credits will be subject to annual limitations. The annual limitation will result in the expiration of $77 million of federal net operating losses and $3.9 million of research and development credit carryforwards before utilization. In the event that it is determined that we have in the past experienced additional ownership changes, or if we experience one or more ownership changes as a result of future transactions in our stock, then we may be further limited in our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets to reduce taxes owed on the net taxable income that we earn. Any such limitations on the ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results.. Changes in laws or regulations related to the Internet may diminish the demand for our applications, and any failure of the Internet infrastructure could have a negative impact on our business.. We deliver our cloud-based applications through the Internet. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting data privacy and the use of the Internet. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may begin to impose taxes, fees, or other charges for accessing the Internet or on commerce conducted via the Internet. Increased enforcement of existing laws and regulations, as well as any laws, regulations, or changes that may be adopted or implemented in the future, could limit the growth of the use of cloud-based applications or communications generally, result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of cloud-based applications such as ours, and reduce the demand for our applications.. The success of our enterprise work management software applications depends on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, as well as the timely development of complementary products for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the amount of traffic and may be unable to support such demands. In addition, problems caused by viruses, worms, malware, and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. Any outages and delays in the Internet could reduce the level of usage of our services, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our applications and adversely affect our business.. Our customers can use our applications to collect, use, and store personal or identifying information regarding their customers and employees. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted, are considering adopting, or may adopt laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, storage, and disclosure of personal information obtained from individuals. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our applications and reduce overall demand, or lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for any noncompliance with such privacy laws. For example, the European Union and many countries in Europe have stringent privacy laws and regulations that may impact our ability to profitably operate in certain European countries. Furthermore, privacy. 30. concerns may cause our customers to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow them to use our applications effectively. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our applications in certain industries. All of these domestic and international legislative and regulatory initiatives may adversely affect our customers' ability to process, handle, store, use, and transmit demographic and personal information from their customers and employees, which could reduce demand for our applications.. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and other industries are considering various new, additional, or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. If the processing of personal information were to be curtailed in this manner, our applications would be less effective, which may reduce demand for our applications and adversely affect our business.. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets due to licensing requirements and subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws.. Our applications are subject to export control and import laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, U.S. Customs regulations, and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Controls. Exports of our applications must be made in compliance with these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including: the possible loss of export or import privileges; fines, which may be imposed on us and responsible employees or managers; and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular sale may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. In addition, changes in our applications or changes in applicable export or import regulations may create delays in the introduction and sale of our applications in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our applications, or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our applications to certain countries, governments, or persons altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could also result in decreased use of our applications, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our applications to existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our applications or limitation on our ability to export or sell our applications would likely adversely affect our business.. Furthermore, we incorporate encryption technology into certain of our applications. Various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our applications or could limit our customers' ability to implement our applications in those countries. Encrypted applications and the underlying technology may also be subject to export control restrictions. Governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports of encryption products, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our applications, when applicable, could harm our international sales and adversely affect our revenue. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements regarding the export of our applications, including with respect to new releases of our applications, may create delays in the introduction of our applications in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our applications throughout their globally-distributed systems or, in some cases, prevent the export of our applications to some countries altogether.. Moreover, U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions programs prohibit the shipment of certain products and services to countries, governments, and persons that are subject to U.S. economic embargoes and trade sanctions. Even though we take precautions to prevent our applications from being shipped or provided to U.S. sanctions targets, our applications and services could be shipped to those targets or provided by third parties despite such precautions. Any such shipment could have negative consequences, including government investigations, penalties and reputational harm.. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected.. 31. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of our second annual report or the first annual report required to be filed with the SEC following the date we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act. If we have a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis, and our financial statements may be materially misstated. We are in the process of designing and implementing the internal controls over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation, which process will be time consuming, costly and complicated. We may need additional finance and accounting personnel with certain skill sets to assist us with the reporting requirements we will encounter as a public company and to support our anticipated growth. In addition, implementing internal controls may distract our officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing processes, and take significant time to complete.. In the future, if we identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to express an opinion due to the provisions of the JOBS Act or is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports; the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected; and we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. We incur significant costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our operating results.. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting, investor relations, and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will incur costs associated with current corporate governance requirements, including requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the exchange on which we list our common stock. These rules and regulations may substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. As a public company, it is more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage or to accept reduced policy limits and coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and any decision on our part to comply with certain reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act and, for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies including, but not limited to: not being required to have our internal control over financial reporting audited by our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and exemptions from the requirements to hold a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and to obtain stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these provisions until such time that we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" We will cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" upon the earliest of the first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the consummation of our initial public offering; the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenue is $1 billion or more; the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities; or the date on which we are deemed to be a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. To the extent we take advantage of any of these reduced reporting burdens in this Annual Report or in future filings, the information that we provide our security holders may be different than you might get from other public companies in which you hold equity interests. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these. 32. exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile.. Under Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We are choosing to \"opt out\" of such extended transition period, however, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and divert management's attention.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include:. • actual or anticipated changes in the estimates of our operating results that we provide to the public, our failure to meet these projections or changes in recommendations by securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall equity markets from time to time;. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of comparable companies;. • changes in the market perception of enterprise work management software generally or in the effectiveness of our applications in particular;. • disruptions in our services due to computer hardware, software or network problems;. • announcements of technological innovations, new products, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors;. • announcements of new customer agreements or upgrades and customer downgrades or cancellations or delays in customer purchases;. • litigation involving us;. • our ability to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions;. • investors' general perception of us;. • recruitment or departure of key personnel;. • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders;. • fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float; and. • general economic, legal, industry and market conditions and trends unrelated to our performance.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Because of the potential volatility of our stock price, we may become the target of securities litigation in the future. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources from our business and adversely affect our business.. 33. If securities or industry analysts do not publish, or cease publishing, research or reports about us, our business or our market, if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, or if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts, the price of our stock and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If few analysts commence coverage of us, the trading price of our stock would likely decrease if one or more of the analysts covering our business downgrade their evaluation of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover our stock, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Furthermore, if our operating results fail to meet analysts' expectations our stock price would likely decline.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall.. The price of our common stock could decline if there are substantial sales of our common stock in the public stock market. On August 28, 2017, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 on behalf of certain of our stockholders. If the stockholders listed in that registration statement sell a significant amount of stock at one time, our stock price could be negatively impacted by such sale. We also have registered shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock-based compensation plans, which can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the lock-up agreements and the restrictions imposed on our affiliates under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Our 2014 Equity Incentive Plan provides for automatic increases to the number of shares available for issuance thereunder and we undertake each year to add those shares to a registration statement on Form S-8.  These increases could have a negative effect on our stock price as the holders of such shares elect to sell their shares.. Our existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders have substantial control over us, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control.. As of December 31, 2017, our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, could have significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election or removal of directors, any amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and over the management and affairs of our company. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares and might affect the market price of our common stock.. Because we do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, our investors may never receive a return on their investment.. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to retain any earnings to maintain and expand our existing operations. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends is currently limited by the terms of our existing loan facility, which prohibits our payment of dividends on our capital stock without prior consent, and any future credit facility may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment.. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our board of directors or management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as amended and restated , will contain provisions that may depress the market price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or. 34. frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our board of directors or our management. These provisions include the following:. • our certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time;. • directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause;. • our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;. • special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by our Chief Executive Officer, our board of directors or holders of not less than the majority of our issued and outstanding capital stock limiting the ability of minority stockholders to take certain actions without an annual meeting of stockholders;. • our stockholders may not act by written consent unless the action to be effected and the taking of such action by written consent are approved in advance by our board of directors and, as a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would generally not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting;. • our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. • stockholders must provide timely notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at an annual meeting of stockholders and, as a result, these provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; and. • our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock, making it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from engaging in certain business combinations with us.. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition."
