[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider the following discussion of risks in addition to the other information in this annual report before purchasing any of our securities. In addition to historical information, the information in this annual report contains \"forward-looking\" statements about our future business and performance. Our actual operating results and financial performance may be very different from what we expect as of the date of this annual report. The risks below address material factors that may affect our future operating results and financial performance.. Risks Related to Our Business. Current inventories and largely unrestricted imports challenge the US domestic industry and our pending trade action may not achieve the desired results and may be costly to us.. Higher than normal inventories, sales of excess civilian and military inventories (including from the dismantling of nuclear weapons) by governments and industry participants, as well as the production levels and costs of production in countries such as Russia, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan have had a substantial impact on the domestic uranium production industry. If the higher inventories and the imports from Kazakhstan and other government subsidized production sites remain unchecked on a continuing basis, there could be a significant negative impact to the uranium market which could adversely impact the Company's future profitability. We have jointly filed a petition for relief with the U.S. Department of Commerce under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 from imports of uranium products that threaten U.S. national security. There is no assurance that the petition will result in any impact on the imports of uranium from low-cost state-sponsored production. Moreover, the petition may have unintended consequences that may affect our business relationships with industry and consumers of uranium. These consequences, together with the costs of pursuing the trade action, may have adverse impacts on us.. The uranium market is volatile and has limited customers.. The marketability of uranium and acceptance of uranium mining is subject to numerous factors beyond our control. The price of uranium may experience volatile and significant price movements over short periods of time. Factors affecting the market include demand for nuclear power; changes in public acceptance of nuclear power generation as a result of any future accidents or terrorism at nuclear facilities, including the continuing effects on the market due to the events following the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March 2011; political and economic conditions in uranium mining, producing and consuming countries; costs and availability of financing of nuclear plants; reprocessing of spent fuel and the re-enrichment of depleted uranium tails or waste.. Our property interests and our projects are subject to volatility in the price of uranium.. The price of uranium is volatile. Changes in the price of uranium depend on numerous factors beyond our control including international, economic and political trends; changes in public acceptance of nuclear power generation as a result of any future accidents or terrorism at nuclear facilities, including the longer-term effects on the market due to the events following the earthquake and tsunami affecting the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station in Japan in 2011; changes in governmental regulations; expectations of inflation; currency exchange fluctuations; interest rates; global or regional consumption patterns; speculative activities and increased production due to new extraction developments and improved extraction and production methods. The effect of these factors on the price of uranium, and therefore on the economic viability of our properties cannot accurately be predicted.  Because most of our properties are in exploration and development stage and. 29. Table of Contents. Lost Creek commenced operations four years ago, it is not yet possible for us to control the impact of fluctuations in the price of uranium.. Mining operations involve a high degree of risk.. Mining operations generally involve a high degree of risk. We continue operations at our first and, currently, only, uranium in situ recovery facility at Lost Creek, where production activities commenced in the second half of 2013. Our operations at the Lost Creek site, which is a remote site in south-central Wyoming, and at other projects as they continue in development will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally encountered in the production of uranium by in situ methods of recovery, including unusual and unexpected geological formations, unanticipated metallurgical difficulties, water management including waste water disposal capacity, equipment malfunctions and parts unavailability, interruptions of electrical power and communications, other conditions involved in the drilling and removal of material through pressurized injection and production wells, radiation safety, transportation and industrial accidents, any of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, mines and other producing facilities, damage to life or property, environmental damage and possible legal liability. Adverse effects on operations and/or further development of our projects could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. We have entered into term sales contracts for a portion of our production, but may be unable to enter into new term sales contracts in the future on suitable terms and conditions.. Our term sales contracts, which have historically resulted in uranium sales at prices in excess of spot prices, have fixed delivery terms. Certain of our contracts have delivery terms that have expired with no future deliveries planned. We are contractually committed to sell 470,000 pounds in 2018, 540,000 pounds in 2019, 390,000 pounds in 2020 and 190,000 pounds in 2021. In each case, the sales price of these contracts is substantially in excess of current spot prices.  If market conditions do not improve, we do not expect to continue to execute sales agreements at such favorable prices in the future. The failure to enter into new term sales contracts on suitable terms, could adversely impact our operations and mining activity decisions, and resulting cash flows and income.. Our business is subject to extensive environmental and other regulations that may make exploring, mining or related activities expensive, and which may change at any time.. The mining industry is subject to extensive environmental and other laws and regulations, which may change at any time. Environmental legislation and regulation is evolving in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. In addition to the ESA decision made in 2015, to not list the greater sage-grouse as an endangered species, other rulemakings and proposed legislation are ongoing.  For example, the EPA continues with its rulemaking on changes to Part 192, which sets forth groundwater restoration and stabilization requirements for ISR uranium projects. Other EPA rulemakings relating to maintenance of tailings facilities and holding ponds, which may also have an impact on ISR projects, including Lost Creek are at various stages (e.g., UMTRCA, RCRA and SDWA restoration and stabilization requirements). The changes currently proposed to CERCLA regulations, which would significantly increase financial obligations and surety bonding, could also have a commensurate impact on ISR projects. These are not the only laws and regulations which are the subject of discussion and proposed more restrictive changes. Moreover, compliance with environmental quality requirements and reclamation laws imposed by federal, state and local governmental authorities may require significant capital outlays, materially affect the economics of a given property, cause material changes or delays in intended activities, and potentially expose us to litigation and other legal or administrative. 30. Table of Contents. proceedings. We cannot accurately predict or estimate the impact of any such future laws or regulations, or future interpretations of existing laws and regulations, on our operations. Historic exploration activities have occurred on many of our properties and mining and energy production activities have occurred near certain of our properties. If such historic activities have resulted in releases or threatened releases of regulated substances to the environment, or historic activities require remediation, potential for liability may exist under federal or state remediation statutes.. The uranium mining industry is capital intensive, and we may be unable to raise necessary additional funding.. Additional funds likely may be required to fund working capital or to fund exploration and development activities at our properties including Lost Creek and the adjoining projects at the Lost Creek Property, as well as the development of our Shirley Basin project. Potential sources of future funds available to us, in addition to the sales proceeds from Lost Creek production, include the sale of additional equity capital, proceeds from the exercise of outstanding convertible equity instruments, borrowing of funds or other debt structure, project financing, or the sale of our interests in assets. There is no assurance that such funding will be available to us to continue development or future exploration. Furthermore, even if such financing is successfully completed, there can be no assurance that it will be obtained on terms favorable to us or will provide us with sufficient funds to meet our objectives, which may adversely affect our business and financial position. In addition, any future equity financings may result in substantial dilution for our existing shareholders.. Our mineral resource estimates may not be reliable; there is risk and increased uncertainty to commencing and conducting production without established mineral reserves; and we need to develop additional resources to sustain ongoing operations.. Our properties do not contain any mineral reserves as defined under SEC Industry Guide 7. See \"Cautionary Note to United States Investors Concerning Disclosure of Mineral Resources\" above. Until mineral reserves or mineral resources are actually mined and processed, the quantity of mineral resources and grades must be considered as estimates only. We have established the existence of uranium resources for certain uranium projects, including the Lost Creek Property. We have not established proven or probable reserves, as defined by Canadian securities regulators or the SEC under Industry Guide 7, through the completion of a final or \"bankable\" feasibility study for any of its uranium projects, including the Lost Creek Property. Furthermore, we have no plans to establish proven or probable reserves for any of our uranium projects for which we plan on utilizing ISR mining, such as the Lost Creek Project or the Shirley Basin Project. As a result, and despite the fact that we commenced recovery of U3O8 at the Lost Creek Project in 2013, there is an increased uncertainty and risk that may result in economic and technical failure which may adversely impact our future profitability.. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of mineral resources, including many factors beyond our control, and no assurance can be given that the recovery of estimated mineral reserves or mineral resources will be realized. In general, estimates of mineral resources are based upon a number of factors and assumptions made as of the date on which the estimates were determined, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeological and engineering estimates that have inherent uncertainties and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe judgment of the geologists, engineers and other professionals preparing the estimate;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testimates of future uranium prices and operating costs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe quality and quantity of available data;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe interpretation of that data; and. 31. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results.. All estimates are, to some degree, uncertain. For these reasons, estimates of the recoverable mineral resources prepared by different professionals or by the same professionals at different times, may vary substantially. As such, there is significant uncertainty in any mineral resource estimate and actual deposits encountered and the economic viability of a deposit may differ materially from our estimates.. As well, because we are now in operation and are depleting our known resource at Lost Creek, we must continue to conduct exploration and develop additional mineral resources. While there remain large areas of our Lost Creek Property which require additional exploration, and we have identified mineral resources at our Shirley Basin Project, we will need to continue to explore other areas of the Lost Creek Property and our other mineral properties in Wyoming, or acquire additional, known mineral resource properties to replenish our mineral resources and sustain continued operations. We estimate life of mine when we prepare our mineral resource estimates, but such estimates may not be correct.. Restrictive covenants in agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we could lose the assets securing our indebtedness.. Our State Bond Loan, under which we originally received approximately $34 million in debt financing, includes restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to sell the assets securing our indebtedness (which include our Lost Creek Project and other related assets). Our ability to make scheduled payments and satisfy other covenants in the State Bond Loan depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions beyond our control. We may be unable to generate a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, interest and other fees on our indebtedness.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default which, if not addressed or waived, could require accelerated repayment of our indebtedness and the enforcement by the lender against the assets securing our indebtedness. The secured collateral for the State Bond Loan includes the Lost Creek Project and other related assets. These are key assets on which our business is substantially dependent and as such, the enforcement against any one or all of these assets would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. Our mining operations are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and permitting requirements and bonding requirements that can delay production and adversely affect operating and development costs.. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state, provincial and local laws governing prospecting and development, taxes, labor standards and occupational health, mine and radiation safety, toxic substances, environmental protection, endangered species protections, and other matters. Exploration, development and production operations are also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws impose high standards on the mining industry, and particularly standards with respect to uranium recovery, to monitor the discharge of waste water and report the results of such monitoring to regulatory authorities, to reduce or eliminate certain effects on or into land, water or air, to progressively restore mine properties, to manage hazardous wastes and materials and to reduce the risk of worker accidents. A violation of these laws may result in the imposition of substantial fines and other penalties and potentially expose us to operational restrictions, suspension, administrative proceedings or litigation.  Many. 32. Table of Contents. of these laws and regulations have tended to become more stringent over time. Any change in such laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flow or results of operations.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet all the regulatory requirements in a timely manner or without significant expense or that the regulatory requirements will not change to delay or prohibit us from proceeding with certain exploration, development or operations. Further, there is no assurance that we will not face new challenges by third parties to regulatory decisions when made, which may cause additional delay and substantial expense, or may cause a project to be permanently halted.. Many of our operations require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. We believe we hold all necessary licenses and permits to carry on the activities which we are currently conducting or propose to conduct under applicable laws and regulations. Such licenses and permits are subject to changes in regulations and changes in various operating circumstances. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to maintain our exploration and mining activities including constructing mines or milling facilities and commencing or continuing exploration or mining activities or operations at any of our properties. In addition, if we proceed to production on any other exploration property, we must obtain and comply with permits and licenses which will contain specific operating conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such permits and licenses or that we will be able to comply with any such conditions.. Lack of acceptance of nuclear energy and deregulation of the electrical utility industry could impede our business.. Our future prospects are tied directly to the electrical utility industry worldwide. Deregulation of the utility industry, particularly in the United States and Europe, is expected to affect the market for nuclear and other fuels for years to come, and may result in a wide range of outcomes including the expansion or the premature shutdown of nuclear reactors. Maintaining the demand for uranium at current levels and future growth in demand will depend upon the continued acceptance of the nuclear technology as a means of generating electricity.  Lack of continued public acceptance of nuclear technology would adversely affect the demand for nuclear power and potentially increase the regulation of the nuclear power industry.  Following the events of March 2011 in Fukushima Japan, a reaction worldwide called into question the public's confidence in nuclear energy and technology, the effects of which are still apparent in many countries around the world.. The results of exploration and ultimate production are highly uncertain.. The exploration for, and development of, mineral deposits involves significant risks which a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. Few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Major expenses may be required to establish mineral resources or reserves, to develop metallurgical processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular site. It is impossible to ensure that our current exploration and development programs will result in profitable commercial operations.. Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, some of which are the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as uranium prices, which are highly cyclical, and government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of uranium and environmental protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital.. 33. Table of Contents. The uranium industry is highly competitive and is competitive with other energy sources.. The international uranium industry is highly competitive. Our activities are directed toward the search for, evaluation, acquisition and development of uranium deposits into production operations. There is no certainty that the expenditures to be made by us will result in discoveries of commercial quantities of uranium deposits. There is aggressive competition within the mining industry for the discovery and acquisition of properties considered to have commercial potential. We will compete with other interests, many of which have greater financial resources than we have, for the opportunity to participate in promising projects. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from successful exploration and development efforts.. Nuclear energy competes with other sources of energy, including oil, natural gas, coal, hydro-electricity and renewable energy sources. These other energy sources are to some extent interchangeable with nuclear energy, particularly over the longer term. Lower prices of oil, natural gas, coal and hydro-electricity may result in lower demand for uranium concentrate and uranium conversion services. Furthermore, the growth of the uranium and nuclear power industry beyond its current level will depend upon continued and increased acceptance of nuclear technology as a means of generating electricity. Because of unique political, technological and environmental factors that affect the nuclear industry, the industry is subject to public opinion risks which could have an adverse impact on the demand for nuclear power and increase the regulation of the nuclear power industry.. Our property title may be uncertain and could be challenged.. Although we have obtained title opinions with respect to certain of our properties, there is no guarantee that title to any of our properties will not be challenged or impugned.  Third parties may have valid claims underlying portions of our interests.  Our mineral properties in the United States consist of leases to private mineral rights, leases covering state lands, unpatented mining claims and patented mining claims. Many of our mining properties in the United States are unpatented mining claims to which we have only possessory title. Because title to unpatented mining claims is subject to inherent uncertainties, it is difficult to determine conclusively ownership of such claims. These uncertainties relate to such things as sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper posting and marking of boundaries and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from descriptions of record. The present status of our unpatented mining claims located on public lands allows us the exclusive right to mine and remove valuable minerals. We are allowed to use the surface of the public lands solely for purposes related to mining and processing the mineral-bearing ores. However, legal ownership of the land remains with the United States. We remain at risk that the mining claims may be forfeited either to the United States or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements. We have taken or will take appropriate curative measures to ensure proper title to our properties where necessary and where possible.. Possible amendments to the General Mining Law could make it more difficult or impossible for us to execute our business plan.. Members of the United States Congress have repeatedly introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the United States Mining Law of 1872, as amended. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to (i) either eliminate or greatly limit the right to a mineral patent; (ii) significantly alter the laws and regulations relating to uranium mineral development and recovery from unpatented and patented mining claims; (iii) impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims; (iv) impose time limits on the effectiveness of plans of operation that may not coincide with mine life, (v) impose more stringent environmental compliance and reclamation requirements on activities on unpatented mining claims, (vi) establish a mechanism that would allow states, localities and Native American tribes to petition for the withdrawal of identified tracts of federal land from the operation of the U.S. general mining laws, and (vii). 34. Table of Contents. allow for administrative determinations that mining would not be allowed in situations where undue degradation of the federal lands in question could not be prevented.. If enacted, such legislation could, among other effects, change the cost of holding unpatented mining claims and could significantly impact our ability to develop locatable mineral resources on our patented and unpatented mining claims. Although it is impossible to predict at this point what any legislated royalties might be, enactment could adversely affect the potential for development and the economics of existing operating mines. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect our financial performance.. Additionally, as noted in other risk factors, there are ongoing withdrawals of federal lands for the purposes of mineral location and development. While certain of these proposals have been withdrawn, and others are not final and, as yet, none directly affects the areas of Wyoming and Nevada in which we currently have land holdings, they could have an adverse effect on our financial performance if they are broadened in scope to directly affect the areas in which we have properties.. We do not have an established earnings record, and we have never paid dividends.. We do not have an established earnings record. We have not paid dividends on our Common Shares since incorporation and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. Payments of any dividends will be at the discretion of our Board after taking into account many factors, including our financial condition and current and anticipated cash needs.. We depend on the services of our management, key personnel, contractors and service providers.. Shareholders will be relying on the good faith, experience and judgment of our management and advisors in supervising and providing for the effective management of the business and our operations and in selecting and developing new investment and expansion opportunities. We may need to recruit additional qualified employees, contractors and service providers to supplement existing management and personnel, the timely availability of which cannot be assured, particularly in the current labor markets in which we recruit our employees and the somewhat remote locations for which employees are needed. As well, the skilled professionals with expertise in engineering and process aspects of in situ recovery, radiation safety and other facets of our business are currently in high demand, as there are relatively few such professionals with both expertise and experience. We will need to hire additional employees as we develop the Shirley Basin Project. We will continue to be dependent on a relatively small number of key persons, including key contractors, the loss of any one or several of whom could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. We do not hold key man insurance in respect of any of our executive officers.. Our insurance coverage could be insufficient.. We currently carry insurance coverage for general liability, directors' and officers' liability and other matters.  We intend to carry insurance to protect against certain risks in such amounts as we consider adequate. Certain insurances may be cost prohibitive to maintain, and even if we carried all such insurances, the nature of the risks we face in our exploration and uranium production operations is such that liabilities could exceed policy limits in any insurance policy or could be excluded from coverage under an insurance policy. The potential costs that could be associated with any liabilities not covered by insurance or in excess of insurance coverage or compliance with applicable laws and regulations may cause substantial delays and require significant capital outlays, adversely affecting our business and financial position. Additionally, we utilize a bonding surety program for our regulatory, reclamation and restoration obligations at Lost Creek Project and the Pathfinder. 35. Table of Contents. Mines sites. Availability of and terms for such surety arrangements may change in the future, resulting in adverse effects to our financial condition.. We are subject to risks associated with regulatory investigations or challenges, litigation and other legal proceedings.. Defense and settlement costs of legal claims can be substantial, even with respect to claims that have no merit. From time to time, we may be involved in disputes with other parties which may result in litigation or other proceedings. Additionally, it is not unlikely that we may find ourselves involved directly or indirectly in legal proceedings, in the form of regulatory investigations, administrative proceedings or litigation, arising from challenges to regulatory actions as described elsewhere in this annual report. Such investigations, administrative proceedings and litigation related to regulatory matters may delay or halt exploration or development of our projects. The results of litigation or any other proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. If we are unable to resolve any such disputes favorably, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, ability to operate, results of operations or our property development.. Acquisitions and integration may disrupt our business.. From time to time, we examine opportunities to acquire additional mining assets and businesses. Any acquisition that we may choose to complete may be of significant size, may change the scale of our business and operations, and/or may expose us to new geographic, political, operating, financial and geological risks. Any acquisitions would be accompanied by risks. For example, there may be a significant change in commodity prices after we have committed to complete the transaction and established the purchase price or share exchange ratio; a material ore body may prove to be below expectations; we may have difficulty integrating and assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired company, realizing anticipated synergies and maximizing the financial and strategic position of the combined enterprise, and maintaining uniform standards, policies and controls across the organization; the integration of the acquired business or assets may disrupt our ongoing business and relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and contractors; and the acquired business or assets may have unknown liabilities which may be significant. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions.. We are dependent on information technology systems, which are subject to certain risks.. We depend upon information technology systems in a variety of ways throughout our operations.  Any significant breakdown of those systems, whether through virus, cyber-attack, security breach, theft, or other destruction, invasion or interruption, or unauthorized access to our systems, could negatively impact our business and operations. To the extent that such invasion, cyber-attack or similar security breach results in disruption to our operations, loss or disclosure of, or damage to, our data and particularly our confidential or proprietary information, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  Our systems, internal controls and insurance for protecting against such cyber security risks may be insufficient.  Although to date we have experienced no such attack resulting in material losses, we may suffer such losses at any time in the future.  We may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify and enhance our protective measures or to investigate, restore or remediate any information technology security vulnerabilities.. 36. Table of Contents. U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences to U.S. Shareholders under the Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules. Investors in the Common Shares of Ur-Energy that are U.S. taxpayers (referred to as a U.S. shareholder) should be aware that we may be a \"passive foreign investment company\" (a \"PFIC\") for the period ended December 31, 2017 and may be a PFIC in subsequent years. If we are a PFIC for any year during a U.S. shareholder's holding period, then such U.S. shareholders generally will be subject to a special, highly adverse tax regime with respect to so-called \"excess distributions\" received on our Common Shares.  Gain realized upon a disposition of our Common Shares (including upon certain dispositions that would otherwise be tax-free) also will be treated as an excess distribution. Excess distributions are punitively taxed and are subject to additional interest charges.  Additional special adverse rules also apply to U.S. shareholders who own Common Shares of Ur-Energy if we are a PFIC and have a non-U.S. subsidiary that is also a PFIC (a \"lower-tier PFIC\").. A U.S. shareholder may make a timely \"qualified electing fund\" election (\"QEF election\") or a \"mark-to-market\" election with respect to our Common Shares to mitigate the adverse tax rules that apply to PFICs, but these elections may accelerate the recognition of taxable income and may result in the recognition of ordinary income. To be timely, a QEF election generally must be made for the first year in the U.S. shareholder's holding period in which Ur-Energy is a PFIC.  A U.S. shareholder may make a QEF election only if the U.S. shareholder receives certain information (known as a \"PFIC annual information statement\") from us annually. A U.S. shareholder may make a QEF election with respect to a lower-tier PFIC only if it receives a PFIC annual information statement with respect to the lower tier PFIC.  The mark-to-market election is available only if our Common Shares are considered regularly traded on a qualifying exchange, which we cannot assure will be the case for years in which it may be a PFIC.  The mark-to-market election is not available for a lower-tier PFIC.. We will use commercially reasonable efforts to make available to U.S. shareholders, upon their written request:  (a) timely and accurate information as to our status as a PFIC and the PFIC status of any subsidiary in which Ur-Energy owns more than 50% of such subsidiary's total aggregate voting power, and (b) for each year in which Ur-Energy determines that it is a PFIC, upon written request, a PFIC annual information statement with respect to Ur-Energy and with respect to each such subsidiary that we determine is a PFIC.. Special adverse rules that impact certain estate planning goals could apply to our Common Shares if we are a PFIC. Each U.S. shareholder should consult its own tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, state and local consequences of the PFIC rules, and regarding the QEF and mark-to-market elections."                                                                  
