[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our reportable segments are sensitive to economic conditions, consumer spending, market disruptions and other business factors.. We are subject to numerous business risk factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary retail items and specialty retail products, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times when disposable income is lower. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending remains uncertain. Some of the factors impacting discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, wages and employment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on severe market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence, political and economic crises and other macroeconomic factors. These factors may affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations and continued growth. The economic conditions may also affect department stores and specialty retail businesses and impact their ability to purchase merchandise from our Wholesale segment. It is difficult to predict near term and/or future economic, capital and credit market conditions and what impact they will have on our business.. In addition, there is a risk that consumer sentiment may decline as a result of market disruptions caused by severe weather conditions, unseasonable weather, natural disasters, health hazards, terrorists activities, political crises or other major events or the prospect of these events which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. The recovery we receive under any insurance we maintain for these purposes may be delayed or may be insufficient to fully offset potential losses.. We rely heavily on our ability to identify changes in fashion.. Customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and can change rapidly. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively predict and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. If we are unable to predict or respond to changing styles or trends successfully or if we misjudge the market for products or new product lines, our sales may be impacted and we may be faced with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. In response, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which could decrease our revenues or gross profit margins. Compared to our Retail segment, our Wholesale segment is more sensitive to changes in fashion trends because of longer lead times in the manufacturing and sale of its apparel. Our fashion decisions, if unsuccessfully forecasted, constitute a material risk and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be successful in expanding our business, opening new retail stores or extending our existing store leases.. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to open and operate new retail stores on a profitable basis and to effectively extend our existing store leases. There can be no assurance that these stores will achieve long term success.. Our operating complexity will increase as our store base grows, and we may face challenges in managing our future growth. Such growth will require that we continue to expand and improve our operating capabilities, and expand, train and manage our employee base. We may be unable to hire and train a sufficient number of qualified personnel or successfully manage our growth.. Our expansion prospects also depend on a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among other things, competition, the availability of financing for capital expenditures and working capital requirements and the availability of suitable sites for new store locations on acceptable lease terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, nor is there any assurance that our newly opened stores will achieve revenue or profitability levels comparable to those of our existing stores in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If our stores fail to achieve, or are unable to sustain, acceptable revenue, profitability and cash flow levels, we may incur additional store asset impairment charges, significant costs associated with closing those stores or both, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Existing and increased competition in the specialty retail and wholesale apparel industries may reduce our net revenues, profits and market share.. The specialty retail and wholesale apparel industries are each highly competitive. Our Retail segment competes on the basis of, among other things, the location of our stores, website, mobile application and catalog presentation, website and mobile application design, the breadth, quality, style, price and availability of our merchandise and the level of customer service offered. Our Anthropologie Group and Free People stores also face competition from small boutiques that offer an individualized shopping experience similar to the one we strive to provide to our target customers. Additionally, the internet and other new technologies facilitate competitive entry and comparison shopping in our Retail segment. Our digital channel competes against numerous websites, mobile applications and catalogs, which may have a greater volume of circulation and web traffic or more effective marketing through online media and social networking sites. We offer an omni-channel shopping experience for our customers and use social media and mobile applications as a way to interact with them to enhance their shopping experiences. Omni-channel retailing is constantly evolving and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully maintain or expand our digital sales channels and respond to shifting consumer traffic patterns and digital buying trends. Our inability to. 7. adequately respond to these risks and uncertainties or successfully maintain and expand our digital business could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, some of our third-party vendors offer products directly to consumers and certain of our competitors. Our Wholesale segment competes with numerous wholesale companies, many of whose products have a wider distribution, based on the quality, fashion and price of its product offerings. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources than us. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Due to a difficult economic and retail environment, our competitors may force a markdown or promotional sales environment which could impair our ability to achieve our historical profit margins. Our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be successful expanding our business internationally.. Our current growth strategy includes plans to continue to open new stores, expand our digital marketing and grow our wholesale customer base and retail presence internationally over the next several years. As we seek to expand internationally, we face competition from more established international competitors. In addition, international stores have different operational characteristics, including employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate and legal requirements. Furthermore, consumer demand and behavior, as well as tastes and purchasing trends may differ internationally, and as a result, sales of our merchandise may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we anticipate. Additionally, our ability to conduct business internationally may be adversely impacted by political and economic risks, as well as the global economy. Any challenges that we encounter as we expand internationally may divert financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. To the extent we expand internationally under franchise or joint venture arrangements, we may face counterparty and/or operational risk. In addition, we are increasingly exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our revenue, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We currently do not utilize hedging instruments to mitigate these foreign currency risks. In the future, however, we may initiate strategies to hedge certain foreign currency risks that may not succeed in offsetting all of the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our business and results of operations.. As we continue to expand our international operations, we are subject to certain U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. We are required to ensure compliance with these laws. Violations of these laws could subject us to sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business and operating results.. Our business depends on effective marketing and high customer traffic.. We have many initiatives in our marketing programs particularly with regard to our websites, mobile applications and our social media presence. If our competitors increase their spending on marketing, if our marketing expenses increase, if our marketing becomes less effective than that of our competitors, or if we do not adequately leverage technology and data analytics capabilities needed to generate concise competitive insight, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Among other factors, (1) a failure to sufficiently innovate or maintain effective marketing strategies and (2) U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that make it more difficult or costly to digitally market, such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation, may adversely impact our ability to maintain brand relevance and drive increased sales.. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our business.. We believe that we have benefited substantially from the leadership and experience of our senior executives, including our co-founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Hayne. The loss of the services of any of our senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. In addition, if our senior executives do not fully integrate within the structure of our management team and core business, we may be adversely affected. We do not have an employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer or any other key personnel. In addition, as our business expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. There is a high level of competition for personnel in the retail industry. Our inability to meet our staffing requirements in the future could impair our ability to increase revenue and could otherwise harm our business.. Increases in labor costs, including wages, could adversely impact our operational results, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our retail store operations are subject to laws governing such matters as minimum wages, working conditions and overtime pay. As minimum wage rates increase or related laws and regulations change, we may need to increase not only the wage rates of our minimum wage employees, but also the wages paid to our other hourly or salaried employees. Any increase in the cost of our labor could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, wage actions by other retailers may require us to increase wage rates in order to attract and retain talented employees. Labor shortages, increased employee turnover and our inability to successfully implement our expanded format store strategy could also increase our labor costs. This in turn could lead us. 8. to increase prices, which could adversely impact our sales. We are also subject to risks related to other store expenses and operational costs. Conversely, if competitive pressures or other factors prevent us from offsetting increased labor costs by increases in prices, our profitability may decline.. We could be materially and adversely affected if any of our distribution or fulfillment centers are damaged or closed or if their operations are diminished.. We operate six distribution and fulfillment centers worldwide to support our Retail and Wholesale segments in the United States, Europe and Canada, including the fulfillment of catalog, website and mobile application orders around the world. We utilize certain third-party logistics providers to store and distribute certain home furnishings merchandise. The merchandise purchased for our United States and Canadian retail store operations is shipped directly to our distribution centers in Gap, Pennsylvania and Reno, Nevada. Merchandise purchased for our digital operations is shipped directly to our fulfillment centers in Gap, Pennsylvania and Reno, Nevada. Merchandise purchased for our wholesale operations is shipped directly to our fulfillment centers in Gap, Pennsylvania and Rushden, England. The merchandise purchased for our Europe retail and digital operations is shipped to Rushden, England. Damage to, or disruption of the operations at, any of these centers due to work stoppages, system failures, accidents, economic or weather conditions, natural disasters, demographic and population changes, as well as other unforeseen events and circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if any of our distribution or fulfillment centers were to close unexpectedly or operate significantly below historical efficiency levels for an extended period of time, the other centers may not be able to support the resulting additional volume demands. As a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores and customers during the time it takes for us to re-open or replace the center.. We rely significantly on international sources of production.. We receive a substantial portion of our apparel and other merchandise from foreign sources, both purchased directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. The majority of these purchases are settled in U.S. dollars. To the extent that our vendors are located overseas or, in the case of third-party vendors, rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, the following risks may adversely impact our business:. •  Any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of increased security or regulatory requirements applicable to imported goods, war, public health concerns, acts of terrorism, natural disasters and port security considerations or labor disputes;. •  New initiatives may be proposed that may have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, could increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries or restrict the importation of products from such countries;. •  Changes to U.S. and foreign trade policies, including the enactment of tariffs, border adjustment taxes or increases in duties or quotas applicable to the products we sell that could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us;. •  A withdrawal by the U.S. from or a significant renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement or other trade agreements to which the U.S. is a party could have a significant impact on our product sourcing operations and results of operations;. •  Significant labor issues, such as strikes at any of our ports in the United States, which could make it difficult or impossible for us to bring foreign sourced products into the United States;. •  Financial or political instability in any of the countries in which the products we purchase are manufactured, if the instability affects the production or export of merchandise from those countries;. •  A significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, as our vendors may not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all;. •  Fluctuation in the prices of raw materials, such as cotton and synthetic fabrics, as increases in such costs can increase the cost of merchandise and potentially lead to reduced consumer demand or reduced margins;. •  The cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, therefore, increases in petroleum prices can adversely affect our gross profit;. •  Increased regulation related to environmental costs, such as carbon taxes and emissions management systems, which could adversely affect our costs of doing business, including utility, transportation and logistics costs; and. •  Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of products we purchase from overseas vendors.. Our operating results fluctuate from period to period.. Our business experiences seasonal fluctuations in net sales and operating income, with a more significant portion of net income typically realized in the second half of each year predominantly due to the year-end holiday period. Historically, and consistent with the retail industry, this seasonality also impacts our working capital requirements, particularly with regard to inventory. Any decrease in. 9. sales or gross profit during this period, or in the availability of working capital needed in the months preceding this period, could have a more material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations than in other periods. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels, as we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the holiday selling periods. If we are not successful in selling our inventory during this period, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of the excess inventory or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights.. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and service marks on a worldwide basis. We are not aware of any valid claims of infringement or challenges to our right to use any of our trademarks and service marks in the United States. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, service marks and intellectual property of others. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction.. In addition, we face additional risks as we continue to expand our business outside the United States. Effective trademark and service mark protection may not be available in every country in which we sell our products, or the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. This could increase the risk that our intellectual property is misappropriated. We may also encounter jurisdictions in which one or more third parties have a pre-existing trademark registration. This may prevent us from registering our own marks in those jurisdiction, and could adversely affect our ability to effectively operate our business or market certain products.. War, terrorism, civil unrest or other violence may negatively impact availability of merchandise and/or otherwise adversely impact our business.. In the event of war, terrorism, civil unrest or other violence, our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores or on our websites may be negatively impacted. A substantial portion of our merchandise is imported from other countries, see \" - We rely significantly on international sources of production.\" If commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution and fulfillment centers and stores, as well as fulfilling catalog, website and mobile application orders. Our stores are located in public areas where large numbers of people typically gather. Terrorist attacks, threats of terrorist attacks or civil unrest involving public areas could cause people not to visit areas where our stores are located. In addition, other types of violence in malls or in other public areas could lead to lower customer traffic in areas in which we operate stores. If any of these events were to occur, we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our stores in the impacted areas, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be successful in introducing additional store concepts or brands.. We may, from time to time, seek to develop and introduce new concepts or brands in addition to our established brands. Our ability to succeed in the early stages of new concepts could require significant capital expenditures and management attention. Additionally, any new concept is subject to certain risks, including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, challenges relating to economies of scale in merchandise sourcing and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including management and designers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and grow these or any other new concepts to a point where they will become profitable, or generate positive cash flow. If we cannot successfully develop and grow these new concepts, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted.. We may develop new concepts through acquisitions and we may not be successful in integrating those acquisitions.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns, the possibility that current operating and financial systems and controls may be inadequate to deal with our growth and the potential loss of key employees.. We also may encounter difficulties in integrating any businesses we may acquire with our existing operations. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to:. •  successfully merge corporate cultures, operations and financial systems;. •  realize cost reduction synergies; and. •  as necessary, retain key personnel of acquired companies.. 10. In addition, there may be liabilities that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on any company that we may acquire, or have recently acquired. Also, there may be additional costs relating to acquisitions including, but not limited to, possible purchase price adjustments. Any of our rights to indemnification from sellers to us, even if obtained, may not be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. We rely on information technology systems and a material disruption or failure of such systems or technologies could adversely affect our business.. Our operations, in particular our digital sales, are subject to numerous risks, including reliance on third-party computer hardware/software, rapid technological change, diversion of sales from our stores, liability for online content, violations of state or federal laws, including those relating to online privacy, credit card fraud, risks related to the failure of the information technology systems that operate our websites, including computer viruses, telecommunications failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. In addition, we regularly evaluate our information technology systems and have implemented modifications and/or upgrades to the information technology systems that support our business. Modifications include replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. There are inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information and system disruptions, which we may not be able to alleviate through testing, training, staging implementation and in-sourcing certain processes, or by securing appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement and redundancy technologies. If our information systems or other technologies are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations in the interim. Although we have not experienced any interruptions or shutdowns of our systems for any material length of time for the reasons described above, such disruptions could lead to delays in our business operations and, if significant, affect our sales and profitability.. If we are unable to safeguard against security breaches with respect to our information technology systems our business may be adversely affected.. During the course of business, we obtain and transmit confidential customer, employee, vendor and Company information through our information technology systems. The protection of customer, employee, vendor and Company data is critical. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements and heightened public awareness and scrutiny.. Although we have implemented systems and procedures that are designed to protect customer, employee, vendor and Company information, prevent data loss and other security breaches, and otherwise identify, assess, and analyze cybersecurity risks, these measures may not be effective. Development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures increase and become more sophisticated. We face an evolving threat landscape in which cybercriminals, among others, employ a complex array of techniques designed to access personal data and other information, including, for example, the use of fraudulent or stolen access credentials, malware, ransomware, phishing, denial of service and other types of attacks. While, to the best of our knowledge, we have not experienced any material misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information as a result of a security breach or cyber attack that could materially increase financial risk to the Company or our customers, such a security breach or cyber attack could adversely affect our business and operations, including by damaging our reputation and our relationships with our customers, employees and investors, exposing us to litigation, fines, penalties or remediation costs and inhibiting our ability to accept debit and credit cards as forms of payment.. Our efforts to protect customer, employee, vendor and Company information may also be adversely impacted by data security or privacy breaches that occur at our third-party vendors or unrelated third parties. While we believe we are diligent in selecting vendors, systems and procedures to enable us to maintain the integrity of our systems, we recognize that there are inherent risks and we cannot assure that any future interruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosures will not occur.. Manufacturers and third-party vendors may not comply with our legal and social compliance program requirements, which could adversely affect our reputation.. We have a manufacturer compliance program that is monitored on a regular basis by our buying offices. Our production facilities are either certified as in compliance with our program, or areas of improvement are identified and corrective follow-up action is taken. All manufacturers are required to follow applicable national labor laws, as well as international compliance standards regarding workplace safety, such as standards that require clean and safe working environments, clearly marked exits and paid overtime. We believe in protecting the safety and working rights of the people who manufacture the products we sell, while recognizing and respecting cultural and legal differences found throughout the world. We require our third-party vendors to register through an online website and agree that they and their suppliers will abide by certain standards and conditions of employment. If our third-party vendors fail to comply with our social compliance program, our reputation may be adversely affected.. 11. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition.. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including but not limited to revenue recognition, leases, impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, inventory, income taxes and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change or increase volatility of our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. See Note 2, \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,\" in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of recent accounting pronouncements.. We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities.. A number of factors influence our effective income tax rate, including changes in tax law, tax treaties, interpretation of existing laws, changes in generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, and our ability to sustain our reporting positions on examination. Changes in any of those factors could change our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our net income. In addition, our operations outside of the United States may cause greater volatility in our effective tax rate.. The ongoing effects of the Tax Act and the refinement of provisional estimates could make our results difficult to predict.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), which significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"IRC\"). This law may have a significant impact on our U.S. taxes. The legislation is unclear in certain respects and will require the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") to issue regulations and interpretations, and possibly technical corrections. While there can be no assurance as to the impact of any additional guidance, we have recorded a provisional amount of income tax to reflect the impact of the law change based on management's current interpretation of the new legislation. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Tax Act. The ultimate impact of U.S. tax reform could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results and our further analysis of the new law as permitted under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\"), Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which provides guidance on accounting for the Tax Act's impact. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse. Investors should consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to this legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in or holding our common stock.. We are subject to numerous regulations and legal matters that could adversely affect our business.. We are subject to customs, child labor, tax, employment, privacy, truth-in-advertising, e-commerce and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and distribution and fulfillment centers. Additional legal and regulatory requirements, and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws, have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment and the cost of compliance. If these laws change without our knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or distributors, we could experience delays in shipments and receipt of products or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, various governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell. If we or our vendors are unable to comply with regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all, or to adequately monitor new regulations that may apply to us, significant fines or penalties could be incurred or we could have to curtail some aspects of our sales or operations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. Moreover, legal actions may be filed against us from time to time, including class actions. These actions may assert commercial, tort, intellectual property, customer, employment, data privacy, securities or other claims. We may also be impacted by litigation trends, including class action lawsuits involving former employees, consumers and shareholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, the market price of our common shares, or our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" require us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. As a result, the SEC adopted requirements for companies that manufacture products that contain certain minerals and metals, known as \"conflict minerals,\" that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. We have developed a framework and management system and continuously undertake due diligence efforts on our supply chain. We have and expect to continue to incur additional costs to comply with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the sources of the specified minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of any changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities, which may adversely affect our business. In. 12. addition, the number of suppliers who provide \"conflict-free\" minerals may be limited, which may make it difficult to satisfy customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. There is uncertainty about the future of the regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" as a result of legal challenges and statements by the SEC. Most recently, we filed our annual Specialized Disclosure Report on Form SD with respect to these minerals on May 31, 2017, as required by the rules."
