[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. In an enterprise as large and complex as ours, a wide range of factors could affect our business and financial results. The factors described below are considered to be the most significant, but are not listed in any particular order. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The following discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.. Risks Related to the Nature and Operations of Our Business. The state and condition of the global financial markets and fluctuations in the global and U.S. economies may have an unpredictable impact on our business and financial condition.. From time to time, the global equity and credit markets experience high levels of volatility and disruption. At various points in time, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and limited credit capacity for certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. In addition, sluggishness in the global and U.S. economies has produced concern over public and private debt levels, high unemployment/underemployment, a drop in consumer confidence and spending, and continued slowness in the U.S. housing market. These factors have impacted corporate profits and resulted in cutbacks in advertising budgets. In periods of economic or market disruption or volatility, we may experience material, adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to access capital. For example, market volatility or weakness in employment or consumer spending could continue to adversely impact the overall demand for advertising. Such a result could have a negative effect on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Finally, any rise in interest rates could significantly impact our cash flows and costs of operations given our levels of debt.. Any deterioration in the economy could negatively impact our ability to meet our cash needs and our ability to maintain compliance with our debt covenants.. If economic conditions change, or other adverse factors outside our control arise, our operations could be negatively impacted, which could prevent us from maintaining compliance with our debt covenants. If it appears that we could not meet our liquidity needs or that noncompliance with debt covenants is likely, we would implement remedial measures, which could include, but not be limited to, operating cost and capital expenditure reductions and deferrals. In addition, we could implement de-leveraging actions, which may include, but not be limited to, other debt repayments, subject to our available liquidity and contractual ability to make such repayments and/or debt refinancings and amendments.. Prior to 2016, we have historically incurred net losses which could continue into the future.. We have historically reported net losses in our consolidated statements of operations, due mostly in part to recording non-cash impairment charges for write-downs to radio broadcasting licenses and goodwill, interest expenses (both cash and non-cash), and revenue declines caused by weakened advertising demand resulting from the current economic environment. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition and could be exacerbated in a poor economic climate. If these trends continue in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our revenue is substantially dependent on spending and allocation decisions by advertisers, and seasonality and/or weakening economic conditions may have an impact upon our business.. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from sales of advertisements and program sponsorships to local and national advertisers. Any reduction in advertising expenditures or changes in advertisers’ spending priorities and/or allocations across different types of media/platforms or programming could have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and results of operations. We do not obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers and advertisers may cancel, reduce, or postpone advertisements without penalty, which could adversely affect our revenue. Seasonal net revenue fluctuations are common in the media industries and are due primarily to fluctuations in advertising expenditures by local and national advertisers. In addition, advertising revenues in even-numbered years tend to benefit from advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality (including the weather), combined with the severe structural changes that have occurred in the U.S. economy, make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and may adversely affect operating results.. 18. Advertising expenditures also tend to be cyclical and reflect general economic conditions, both nationally and locally. Because we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the sale of advertising, a decline or delay in advertising expenditures could reduce our revenues or hinder our ability to increase these revenues. Advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial, entertainment, and retail industries, represent a significant portion of our advertising revenues. Structural changes (such as reduced footprints in retail and the movement of retailers online) and business failures in these industries have affected our revenues and continued structural changes or business failures in any of these industries could have significant further impact on our revenues. Any political, economic, social, or technological change resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending of these sectors could adversely affect our advertising revenues or our ability to increase such revenues. In addition, because many of the products and services offered by our advertisers are largely discretionary items, weakening economic conditions or changes in consumer spending patterns could reduce the consumption of such products and services and, thus, reduce advertising for such products and services. Changes in advertisers’ spending priorities during economic cycles may also affect our results. Disasters (domestic or external to the United States), acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could also lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of supply or demand issues, uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty.. Our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our content, particularly our television and radio programs, which is difficult to predict.. Radio, video, and digital content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of media content or a radio program, and the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with the content or program, depend primarily upon their acceptance and perceptions by the public, which can change quickly and are difficult to predict. The commercial success of content or a program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Our failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content on any part of our multi-media platform could adversely affect our revenues.. Ratings for broadcast stations and traffic on a particular website are also factors that are weighed when advertisers determine which outlets to use and in determining the advertising rates that the outlet receives. Poor ratings or traffic levels can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising revenues. For example, if there is an event causing a change of programming at one of our stations, there could be no assurance that any replacement programming would generate the same level of ratings, revenues, or profitability as the previous programming. In addition, changes in ratings methodology and technology could adversely impact our ratings and negatively affect our advertising revenues.. Television content production is inherently a risky business because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a television program and the licensing of rights to the associated intellectual property depends primarily upon the public’s level of acceptance, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a television program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs in the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Rating points are also factors that are weighed when determining the advertising rates that TV One receives. Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising revenues. Consequently, low public acceptance of TV One’s content may have an adverse effect on TV One’s results of operations. Further, other competitive networks, such as the networks launched by Oprah Winfrey (OWNTM), Sean Combs (REVOLT TVTM), and Magic Johnson (ASPIRETM), could take away from our audience share and ratings and thus have an adverse effect on TV One’s results of operations.. Finally, the costs of developing and distributing content and programming most popular with the public may change significantly if new performance royalties (such as those that have been proposed by members of Congress from time to time) are imposed upon radio broadcasters or internet operators and such changes could have a material impact upon our business. In this regard, a new performing rights organization, Global Music Rights (“GMR”), has been formed, but the scope of its repertory is not clear and it is not clear that it licenses compositions that have not already been licensed by the other performing rights organizations. If a significant number of musical composition copyright owners withdraw from the established performing rights organizations, or if new performing rights organizations form to license compositions that are not already licensed, our royalty rates or negotiation costs could increase.. A disproportionate share of our radio segment revenue comes from a small number of geographic markets and from Reach Media.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 40.2% of our net revenue was generated from the sale of advertising in our core radio business, excluding Reach Media. Within our core radio business, four of the 15 markets in which we operate radio stations (Houston, Washington, DC, Atlanta and Baltimore) accounted for approximately 52.4% of our radio station net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. Revenue from the operations of Reach Media, along with revenue from both the Houston and Washington, DC markets accounted for approximately 21.7% of our total consolidated net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. Revenue from the operations of Reach Media, along with revenue from our significant contributing markets, accounted for approximately 31.4% of our total consolidated net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. Adverse events or conditions (economic, including government cutbacks or otherwise) could lead to declines in the contribution of Reach Media or declines in one or more of the significant contributing markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our overall financial performance and results of operations.. 19. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to our competitors.. Our media properties compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other radio stations and station groups and other media such as broadcast television, newspapers, magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, outdoor advertising, “over the top providers” on the internet and direct mail. Adverse changes in audience ratings, internet traffic, and market shares could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Larger media companies, with more financial resources than we have may target our core audiences or enter the segments or markets in which we operate, causing competitive pressure. Further, other media and broadcast companies may change their programming format or engage in aggressive promotional campaigns to compete directly with our media properties for our core audiences and advertisers. Competition for our core audiences or in any of our segments or markets could result in lower ratings or traffic and, hence, lower advertising revenue for us, or cause us to increase promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower our earnings and cash flow. Changes in population, demographics, audience tastes and other factors beyond our control, could also cause changes in audience ratings or market share. Failure by us to respond successfully to these changes could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We cannot assure that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue.. We must respond to the rapid changes in technology, content offerings, services, and standards across our entire platform in order to remain competitive.. Technological standards across our media properties are evolving and new distribution technologies/platforms are emerging at a rapid pace. We cannot assure that we will have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new features, content or services to compete with these new technologies. New media has resulted in fragmentation in the advertising market, and we cannot predict the effect, if any, that additional competition arising from new technologies or content offerings may have across any of our business segments or our financial condition and results of operations, which may be adversely affected if we are not able to adapt successfully to these new media technologies or distribution platforms. The continuing growth and evolution of channels and platforms has increased our challenges in differentiating ourselves from other media platforms. We continually seek to develop and enhance our content offerings and distribution platforms/methodologies. Failure to effectively execute in these efforts, actions by our competitors, or other failures to deliver content effectively could hurt our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and, as a result, have adverse effects across our business.. The loss of key personnel, including certain on-air talent, could disrupt the management and operations of our business.. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key employees, including certain on-air personalities. We believe that the combination of skills and experience possessed by our executive officers and other key employees could be difficult to replace, and that the loss of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on us, including the impairment of our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition, several of our on-air personalities and syndicated radio programs hosts have large loyal audiences in their respective broadcast areas and may be significantly responsible for the ratings of a station. The loss of such on-air personalities or any change in their popularity could impact the ability of the station to sell advertising and our ability to derive revenue from syndicating programs hosted by them. We cannot be assured that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current audiences or ratings.. If our digital segment does not continue to develop and offer compelling and differentiated content, products and services, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected.. In order to attract consumers and generate increased activity on our digital properties, we believe that we must offer compelling and differentiated content, products and services. However, acquiring, developing, and offering such content, products and services may require significant costs and time to develop, while consumer tastes may be difficult to predict and are subject to rapid change. If we are unable to provide content, products and services that are sufficiently attractive to our digital users, we may not be able to generate the increases in activity necessary to generate increased advertising revenues. In addition, although we have access to certain content provided by our other businesses, we may be required to make substantial payments to license such content. Many of our content arrangements with third parties are non-exclusive, so competitors may be able to offer similar or identical content. If we are not able to acquire or develop compelling content and do so at reasonable prices, or if other companies offer content that is similar to that provided by our digital segment, we may not be able to attract and increase the engagement of digital consumers on our digital properties.. 20. Continued growth in our digital business also depends on our ability to continue offering a competitive and distinctive range of advertising products and services for advertisers and publishers and our ability to maintain or increase prices for our advertising products and services. Continuing to develop and improve these products and services may require significant time and costs. If we cannot continue to develop and improve our advertising products and services or if prices for our advertising products and services decrease, our digital advertising revenues could be adversely affected.. More individuals are using devices other than personal and laptop computers to access and use the internet, and, if we cannot make our products and services available and attractive to consumers via these alternative devices, our internet advertising revenues could be adversely affected.. Digital users are increasingly accessing and using the internet through mobile tablets and smartphones. In order for consumers to access and use our products and services via these devices, we must ensure that our products and services are technologically compatible with such devices. If we cannot effectively make our products and services available on these devices, fewer internet consumers may access and use our products and services and our advertising revenue may be negatively affected.. Unrelated third parties may claim that we infringe on their rights based on the nature and content of information posted on websites we maintain.. We host internet services that enable individuals to exchange information, generate content, comment on our content, and engage in various online activities. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the United States and internationally. While we monitor postings to such websites, claims may be brought against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that may be posted online or generated by our users. Our defense of such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources.. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brands could be adversely affected.. We currently hold various domain name registrations relating to our brands, including urban1.com, radio-one.com and interactiveone.com. The registration and maintenance of domain names are generally regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars, or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to register or maintain relevant domain names. We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from registering domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brands, and make it more difficult for users to find our websites and our services.. Future asset impairment to the carrying values of our FCC licenses and goodwill could adversely impact our results of operations and net worth.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $614.5 million in broadcast licenses and $262.9 million in goodwill, which totaled $877.4 million, and represented approximately 66.6% of our total assets. Therefore, we believe estimating the fair value of goodwill and radio broadcasting licenses is a critical accounting estimate because of the significance of their carrying values in relation to our total assets. We recorded impairment charges against radio broadcasting licenses of approximately $29.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2017.. We are required to test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually, which we have traditionally done in the fourth quarter, or on an interim basis when events or changes in circumstances suggest impairment may have occurred. Impairment is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset over its fair value. Impairment may result from deterioration in our performance, changes in anticipated future cash flows, changes in business plans, adverse economic or market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, or other factors beyond our control. The amount of any impairment must be expensed as a charge to operations. Fair values of FCC licenses and goodwill have been estimated using the income approach, which involves a 10-year model that incorporates several judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values. We also utilize a market-based approach to evaluate our fair value estimates. There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analysis.. For the second and third quarters of each of 2017 and 2016, the total market revenue growth for certain markets in which we operate was below the estimated total market revenue growth used in our respective prior year annual impairment testing. In each quarter, we deemed that to be an impairment indicator that warranted interim impairment testing of certain markets’ radio broadcasting licenses, which we performed as of each quarter-end date. We recorded an impairment charge of approximately $29.1 million related to our Columbus and Houston radio broadcasting licenses during the year ended December 31, 2017. We recorded an impairment charge of approximately $1.3 million related to our Columbus radio broadcasting licenses during the year ended December 31, 2016.. 21. Changes in certain events or circumstances could result in changes to our estimated fair values, and may result in further write-downs to the carrying values of these assets. Additional impairment charges could adversely affect our financial results, financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future.. Our business depends on maintaining our licenses with the FCC. We could be prevented from operating a radio station if we fail to maintain its license.. Within our primary business, we are required to maintain radio broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC. These licenses are ordinarily issued for a maximum term of eight years and are renewable. Currently, subject to renewal, our radio broadcasting licenses expire beginning in October 2019, and others expire at various times through August 1, 2022. While we anticipate receiving renewals of all of our broadcasting licenses, interested third parties may challenge our renewal applications. In addition, we are subject to extensive and changing regulation by the FCC with respect to such matters as programming, indecency standards, technical operations, employment and business practices. If we or any of our significant stockholders, officers, or directors violate the FCC’s rules and regulations or the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), or is convicted of a felony or found to have engaged in certain other types of non-FCC related misconduct, the FCC may commence a proceeding to impose fines or other sanctions upon us. Examples of possible sanctions include the imposition of fines, the renewal of one or more of our broadcasting licenses for a term of fewer than eight years or the revocation of our broadcast licenses. If the FCC were to issue an order denying a license renewal application or revoking a license, we would be required to cease operating the radio station covered by the license only after we had exhausted administrative and judicial review without success.. Disruptions or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations, compromise client information and expose us to liability, possibly causing our business and reputation to suffer.. Any internal technology error or failure impacting systems hosted internally or externally, or any large scale external interruption in technology infrastructure we depend on, such as power, telecommunications or the Internet, may disrupt our technology network. Any individual, sustained or repeated failure of technology could impact our customer service and result in increased costs or reduced revenues. Our technology systems and related data also may be vulnerable to a variety of sources of interruption due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. Our technology security initiatives, disaster recovery plans and other measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent a business disruption and its adverse financial consequences to our reputation.. In addition, as a part of our ordinary business operations, we may collect and store sensitive data, including personal information of our clients, listeners and employees. The secure operation of the networks and systems on which this type of information is stored, processed and maintained is critical to our business operations and strategy. Any compromise of our technology systems resulting from attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance could result in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to clients’, listeners’, employees’ or business partners’ information. Any such loss, disclosure, misappropriation or access could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disruption of our operations and damage to our reputation, any or all of which could adversely affect our business.. The FCC’s media ownership rules could restrict our ability to acquire radio stations.. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies limit the number of broadcasting properties that any person or entity may own (directly or by attribution) in any market and require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of licenses. The FCC’s media ownership rules remain subject to further agency and court proceedings. In August 2016, the FCC concluded its most recent quadrennial review of its media ownership rules. See the information contained in “Business-Federal Regulation of Radio Broadcasting.”. As a result of the FCC media ownership rules, the outside media interests of our officers and directors could limit our ability to acquire stations. The filing of petitions or complaints against Urban One or any FCC licensee from which we are acquiring a station could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, refusing to grant or imposing conditions on its consent to the assignment or transfer of control of licenses. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies also impose limitations on non-U.S. ownership and voting of our capital stock.. 22. Enforcement by the FCC of its indecency rules against the broadcast industry could adversely affect our business operations.. The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCC’s indecency and profanity definitions, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC has in the past vigorously enforced its indecency rules against the broadcasting industry and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for “serious” indecency violations. In June 2012, the Supreme Court issued a decision which, while setting aside certain FCC indecency enforcement actions on narrow due process grounds, declined to rule on the constitutionality of the FCC’s indecency policies. Following the Supreme Court’s decision, the FCC requested public comment on the appropriate substance and scope of its indecency enforcement policy. It is not possible to predict whether and, if so, how the FCC will revise its indecency enforcement policies or the effect of any such changes on us. The fines for broadcasting indecent material are a maximum of $325,000 per utterance. The determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content could violate indecency standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual programs, words or phrases may violate the FCC’s indecency rules adds significant uncertainty to our ability to comply with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, third parties could oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations on the grounds that we broadcast allegedly indecent programming on our stations. Some policymakers support the extension of the indecency rules that are applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cover cable programming and/or attempts to increase enforcement of or otherwise expand existing laws and rules. If such an extension, attempt to increase enforcement, or other expansion took place and was found to be constitutional, some of TV One’s content could be subject to additional regulation and might not be able to attract the same subscription and viewership levels.. Changes in current federal regulations could adversely affect our business operations.. Congress and the FCC have considered, and may in the future consider and adopt, new laws, regulations and policies that could, directly or indirectly, affect the profitability of our broadcast stations. In particular, Congress may consider and adopt a revocation of terrestrial radio’s exemption from paying royalties to performing artists and record companies for use of their recordings (radio already pays a royalty to songwriters, composers and publishers). In addition, commercial radio broadcasters and entities representing artists are negotiating agreements that could result in broadcast stations paying royalties to artists. A requirement to pay additional royalties could have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. Moreover, it is possible that our license fees and negotiating costs associated with obtaining rights to use musical compositions and sound recordings in our programming could sharply increase as a result of private negotiations, one or more regulatory rate-setting processes, or administrative and court decisions. We cannot predict whether such increases will occur.. The television and distribution industries in the United States are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations, and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation of TV One. For example, the FCC has initiated a proceeding to examine and potentially regulate more closely embedded advertising such as product placement and product integration. Enhanced restrictions affecting these means of delivering advertising messages may adversely affect TV One’s advertising revenues. Changes to the media ownership and other FCC rules may affect the competitive landscape in ways that could increase the competition faced by TV One. Proposals have also been advanced from time to time before the U.S. Congress and the FCC to extend the program access rules (currently applicable only to those cable program services which also own or are owned by cable distribution systems) to all cable program services. TV One’s ability to obtain the most favorable terms available for its content could be adversely affected should such an extension be enacted into law. TV One is unable to predict the effect that any such laws, regulations or policies may have on its operations.. Changes in U.S. tax laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s cash flow, results of operations or financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) was signed into law and contains broad and complex changes to U.S. Federal tax laws. The Company has provided for an estimated impact of the Act in the financial statements. The Company’s interpretation of the law changes requires significant judgments to be made, and significant estimates in the calculation of the provision for income taxes. However, additional guidance may be issued by the Internal Revenue Service, Department of Treasury, or other governing body that may significantly differ from the Company’s interpretation of the Act’s changes, which may result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s cash flow, results of operations or financial condition.. New or changing federal, state or international privacy legislation or regulation could hinder the growth of our internet business.. A variety of federal and state laws govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data that our business uses to operate its services and to deliver certain advertisements to its customers, as well as the technologies used to collect such data. Not only are existing privacy-related laws in these jurisdictions evolving and subject to potentially disparate interpretation by governmental entities, new legislative proposals affecting privacy are now pending at both the federal and state level in the U.S. Changes to the interpretation of existing law or the adoption of new privacy-related requirements could hinder the growth of our business. Also, a failure or perceived failure to comply with such laws or requirements or with our own policies and procedures could result in significant liabilities, including a possible loss of consumer or investor confidence or a loss of customers or advertisers.. 23. The loss of affiliation agreements could materially adversely affect TV One’s results of operations.. TV One is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with cable and direct broadcast distributors for its revenues, and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to such distributors. The loss of one or more of these arrangements could reduce the distribution of TV One’s programming services and reduce revenues from subscriber fees and advertising, as applicable. Further, the loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any distributor could reduce revenues from subscribers and associated subscriber fees. In addition, consolidation among cable distributors and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast network business have provided more leverage to these distributors and could adversely affect TV One’s ability to maintain or obtain distribution for its network programming on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The results of renewals could have a material adverse effect on TV One’s revenues and results and operations. We cannot assure you that TV One will be able to renew its affiliation agreements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our content, which may adversely affect our revenues from subscriber fees and our ability to sell national and local advertising time.. Changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may impact the performance of our businesses.. TV One faces emerging competition from other providers of digital media, some of which have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In particular, content offered over the internet has become more prevalent as the speed and quality of broadband networks have improved. Providers such as HuluTM, NetflixTM, AppleTM, AmazonTM and GoogleTM, as well as gaming and other consoles such as Microsoft’s XboxTM, Sony’s PS4TM, Nintendo’s WiiTM, and RokuTM, are aggressively establishing themselves as alternative providers of video services, including online TV services. Most recently, new online distribution services have emerged offering live sports and other content without paying for a tradition cable bundle of channels. These services and the growing availability of online content, coupled with an expanding market for mobile devices and tablets that allow users to view content on an on-demand basis and internet-connected televisions, may impact TV One’s distribution for its services and content. Additionally, devices or services that allow users to view television programs away from traditional cable providers or on a time-shifted basis and technologies that enable users to fast-forward or skip programming, including commercials, such as DVRs and portable digital devices and systems that enable users to store or make portable copies of content, have caused changes in consumer behavior that may affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. If we cannot ensure that our distribution methods and content are responsive to TV One’s target audiences, our business could be adversely affected.. Our President and Chief Executive Officer has an interest in TV One that may conflict with your interests.. Pursuant to the terms of employment with our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Alfred C. Liggins, III, in recognition of Mr. Liggins’ contributions in founding TV One on our behalf, he is eligible to receive an award amount equal to approximately 4% of any proceeds from distributions or other liquidity events in excess of the return of our aggregate investment in TV One (the “Employment Agreement Award”). Our obligation to pay the award was triggered after our recovery of the aggregate amount of our pre-Comcast Buyout capital contribution in TV One, and payment is required only upon actual receipt of distributions of cash or marketable securities or proceeds from a liquidity event in excess of such invested amount. Mr. Liggins’ rights to the Employment Agreement Award (i) cease if he is terminated for cause or he resigns without good reason and (ii) expire at the termination of his employment (but similar rights could be included in the terms of a new employment agreement or arrangement). As a result of this arrangement, the interest of Mr. Liggins’ with respect to TV One may conflict with your interests as holders of our debt or equity securities.. Two common stockholders have a majority voting interest in Urban One and have the power to control matters on which our common stockholders may vote, and their interests may conflict with yours.. As of December 31, 2017, our Chairperson and her son, our President and CEO, collectively held approximately 96% of the outstanding voting power of our common stock. As a result, our Chairperson and our CEO control our management and policies and decisions involving or impacting upon Urban One, including transactions involving a change of control, such as a sale or merger. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of our other stockholders and our debt holders. In addition, certain covenants in our debt instruments require that our Chairperson and the CEO maintain a specified ownership and voting interest in Urban One, and prohibit other parties’ voting interests from exceeding specified amounts. Our Chairperson and the CEO have agreed to vote their shares together in elections of members to the Board of Directors of Urban One.. Further, we are a “controlled company” under rules governing the listing of our securities on the NASDAQ Stock Market because more than 50% of our voting power is held by our Chairperson and the CEO. Therefore, we are not subject to NASDAQ Stock Market listing rules that would otherwise require us to have: (i) a majority of independent directors on the board; (ii) a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iv) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (v) director nominees selected, or recommended for the board’s selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. While a majority of our board members are currently independent directors, we do not make any assurances that a majority of our board members will be independent directors at any given time.. 24"
