[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10 - K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward - looking statements made by or on behalf of us.. Risks Affecting All of Our Businesses. The completion of, loss of or failure to renew one or more significant contracts could adversely affect our profitability.. We provide disposal and transportation services to customers on discrete Event Business (non - recurring project based work) which varies widely in size, duration and unit pricing. Some of these multi - year projects can account for a significant portion of our revenue and profit. The replacement of 2017 Event Business revenue and earnings depends on multiple factors, many of which are outside of our control including, but not limited to, general and industry - specific economic conditions, capital in the commercial credit markets, general level of government funding on environmental matters, real estate development and other industrial investment opportunities. Our inability to replace the contribution from 2017 Event Business projects with new business could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our market is highly competitive. Failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face competition from companies with greater resources than us, companies with closer geographic proximity to waste sites, companies with service offerings we do not provide and companies that can provide lower pricing than we can in certain instances. An increase in the number or location of commercial treatment or disposal facilities for hazardous or radioactive waste, significant expansion of existing competitor permitted capabilities, acquisitions by competitors or a decrease in the treatment or disposal fees charged by competitors could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is also heavily affected by waste disposal fees imposed by government agencies. These fees, which vary from state to state and are periodically adjusted, may adversely impact the competitive environment in which we operate.. Adverse economic conditions, government funding or competitive pressures affecting our customers could harm our business.. We serve oil refineries, chemical production plants, steel mills, real estate developers, waste brokers/aggregators serving small manufacturers and other industrial customers that are, or may be, affected by changing economic conditions and competition. These customers may be significantly impacted by deterioration in the general economy and may curtail waste production and/or delay spending on plant maintenance, waste cleanup projects and other discretionary work. Spending by government customers may also be reduced or temporarily suspended due to declining tax revenues that may result from a general deterioration in economic conditions or other federal or state fiscal policy. Factors that can impact general economic conditions and the level of spending by customers include the general level of consumer and industrial spending, increases in fuel and energy costs, residential and commercial real estate and mortgage market conditions, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior.. 17. Table of Contents. Market forces may also compel customers to cease or reduce operations, declare bankruptcy, liquidate or relocate to other countries, any of which could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are significantly affected by the commencement and completion of large and small cleanup projects; potential seasonal fluctuations due to weather; budgetary decisions and cash flow limitations influencing the timing of customer spending for remedial activities; the timing of regulatory agency decisions and judicial proceedings; changes in government regulations and enforcement policies and other factors that may delay or cause the cancellation of cleanup projects. We do not control such factors, which can cause our revenue and income to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year.. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations our business could be adversely affected.. The changing regulatory framework governing our business creates significant risks. We could be held liable if our operations cause contamination of air, groundwater or soil or expose our employees or the public to contamination. Under current law, we may be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. Also, we may be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination at facilities operated by others, or if a predecessor made such arrangements and we are a successor. Liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Stringent regulations of federal, state or provincial governments have a substantial impact on our business. Local government controls may also apply. Many complex laws, rules, orders and regulatory interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, noise, visual impact, odor, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. Failure to obtain on a timely basis or comply with applicable federal, state, provincial and local governmental regulations, licenses, permits or approvals for our waste treatment and disposal facilities could prevent or restrict our ability to provide certain services, resulting in a potentially significant loss of revenue and earnings. Changes in environmental regulations may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures, or limit operations. Changes in laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement or interpretation of existing laws, regulations or permitted activities may require us to modify existing operating licenses or permits, or obtain additional approvals or limit operations. New governmental requirements that raise compliance standards or require changes in operating practices or technology may impose significant costs and/or limit operations.. Our revenue is primarily generated as a result of requirements imposed on our customers under federal, state, and provincial laws and regulations to protect public health and the environment. If requirements to comply with laws and regulations governing management of PCB, hazardous or radioactive waste were relaxed or less vigorously enforced, demand for our services could materially decrease and our revenues and earnings could be significantly reduced.. Failure to realize the anticipated benefits and operational performance from previously acquired operations could lead to an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.. As a result of acquisitions since 2010, we have goodwill of $189.4 million and indefinite - lived intangible assets of $48.4 million at December 31, 2017. We are required to test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually to determine if impairment has occurred. The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including potential changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in laws or regulations, changes in business operations, changes in competition or changes in our stock price and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of our future performance, may affect the fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets, which may result in an impairment charge.. Based on the results of those tests during the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded a $5.5 million goodwill impairment charge in our Resource Recovery reporting unit and a $3.4 million impairment charge on the indefinite-lived intangible assets of our Resource Recovery business.. 18. Table of Contents. Estimates of the future performance of our reporting units assume a certain level of revenue and earnings growth over the projection period. The projected revenue and earnings growth is based on various factors and assumptions that we consider to be reasonable, including, but not limited to, growth in the industries served by the Field Services reporting unit, successful implementation of our business and marketing strategies for this reporting unit and continuing favorable market conditions for the customers we serve. Should any of these assumptions turn out not to be true and the projected growth not occur for these or other reasons, or the reporting units otherwise fail to meet their current financial plans, or there are changes to any other key assumptions used in the estimates, the financial performance of these reporting units could result in a future goodwill impairment.. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired as a result of a failure to realize the anticipated benefits and operational performance of acquired operations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States, Canada, and various state and local jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those tax laws, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\"), was signed into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code. This Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and made other changes that could have a favorable impact on our overall U.S. federal tax liability in a given period. However, the Tax Act also included a number of provisions that limit or eliminate various deductions that could affect our U.S. federal income tax position. We continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on our business. The impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and could be adverse. While we expect the Tax Act to be favorable to the Company overall, there can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the U.S. and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in \"Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Additionally, our effective tax rate may be affected by the tax effects of acquisitions or restructuring activities we may undertake, changes in share-based compensation, newly enacted tax legislation and uncertain tax positions we may take in the short term in response to such legislation. Finally, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities which may result in the assessment of additional income taxes. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. However, unanticipated outcomes from examinations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our indebtedness may limit the amount of cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business, and our credit agreement restricts our ability to engage in certain corporate and financial transactions.. On April 18, 2017, the Company entered into a new senior secured credit agreement (the \"New Credit Agreement\") with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (\"Wells Fargo\"), as administrative agent for the lenders, swingline lender and issuing lender, and Bank of America, N.A., as an issuing lender, that provides for a $500.0 million, five-year revolving credit facility (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\"), including a $75.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $25.0 million sublimit for the issuance of swingline loans used to fund short-term working capital requirements. The New Credit Agreement also contains an accordion feature whereby the Company may request up to $200.0 million of additional funds through an increase to the Revolving Credit Facility, through incremental term loans, or some combination thereof. As of December 31, 2017, we had total indebtedness of $277.0 million, comprised entirely of revolving credit loans under the Revolving Credit Facility. These revolving credit loans are due upon the earliest to occur of (a) April 18, 2022 (or, with respect to any lender, such later date as requested by us and accepted by such lender), (b) the date of termination of the entire revolving credit commitment (as defined in the New Credit Agreement) by us, and (c) the date of termination of the revolving credit commitment. The New Credit Agreement makes us vulnerable to adverse general economic or industry conditions and increases in interest rates, as borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates; and limits our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital or other purposes.. 19. Table of Contents. In addition, the New Credit Agreement and related ancillary agreements with our lenders contain certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and make other restricted payments, repurchase shares of outstanding stock, create certain liens and engage in certain types of transactions. Our ability to borrow under the New Credit Agreement depends upon our compliance with the restrictions contained in the New Credit Agreement and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants.. Failure to perform under our contracts may adversely harm our business.. Certain contracts require us to meet specified performance criteria. Our ability to meet these criteria requires that we expend significant resources. If we or our subcontractors are unable to perform as required, we could be subject to substantial monetary penalties and/or loss of the affected contracts which may adversely affect our business.. Loss of key management or sales personnel could harm our business.. We have an experienced management team including general managers at our operating facilities and rely on the continued service of these senior managers to achieve our objectives. Our objective is to retain our present management and sales teams and identify, hire, train, motivate and retain other highly skilled personnel. The loss of any key management employee or sales personnel could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. A change or deterioration in labor relations could disrupt our business or increase costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is a party to collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 300, or approximately 22%, of our employees. The agreements expire on May 31, 2018, November 30, 2020 and April 30, 2022, respectively. While we believe the Company will maintain good working relations with its employees on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate the terms of future agreements in a manner acceptable to the Company. Potential work disruptions from labor disputes may disrupt our businesses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our participation in multi - employer pension plans may subject us to liabilities that could materially adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.. Certain of the Company's wholly - owned subsidiaries participate in multi - employer defined benefit pension plans under the terms of collective bargaining agreements covering most of the subsidiaries' union employees. To the extent that those plans are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi - Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980 (\"ERISA\"), may subject us to substantial liabilities if we withdraw from such multi - employer plans or if they are terminated. Under current law regarding multi - employer defined benefit plans, a plan's termination, an employer's voluntary partial or complete withdrawal from, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from, an underfunded multi - employer defined benefit plan requires participating employers to make payments to the plan for their proportionate share of the multi - employer plan's unfunded vested liabilities. Furthermore, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 added new funding rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi - employer plans that are classified as \"endangered,\" \"seriously endangered,\" or \"critical\" status. If plans in which we participate are in critical status, benefit reductions may apply and/or we could be required to make additional contributions. Contributions to these funds could also increase as a result of future collective bargaining with the unions, a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency of other companies who currently contribute to these funds, failure of the Plan to meet ERISA's minimum funding requirements, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets, or other funding deficiencies. Any of the foregoing events could materially adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.. Based upon the information available to us from plan administrators as of April 30, 2017, certain of the multi - employer pension plans in which we participate are underfunded. The Pension Protection Act requires that underfunded pension plans improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. In addition, if a multi - employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund. We have been notified that certain plans to which our subsidiaries contribute are in \"critical\". 20. Table of Contents. status and these plans may require additional contributions in the form of a surcharge on future benefit contributions required for future work performed by union employees covered by these plans. As a result, we expect our required contributions to these plans to increase in the future. The amount of additional funds we may be obligated to contribute in the future cannot be estimated, as such amounts will be based on future levels of work that require the specific use of the union employees covered by these plans, investment returns and the level of underfunding of such plans.. We may not be able or willing to pay future dividends.. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to our future financial condition and certain conditions such as continued compliance with covenants contained in the New Credit Agreement. Our Board of Directors must also approve any dividends at their sole discretion. Pursuant to the New Credit Agreement, we may only declare quarterly or annual dividends if on the date of declaration, no event of default has occurred and no other event or condition has occurred that would constitute an event of default due to the payment of the dividend. Unforeseen events or situations could cause non - compliance with these covenants, or cause the Board of Directors to discontinue or reduce the amount of any future dividend payment.. Future stock issuances could adversely affect common stock ownership interest and rights in comparison with those of other security holders.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or securities convertible into common stock, or we use shares of our common stock to pay a portion of the purchase price in any future acquisition, the percentage of ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we issue additional common stock or securities convertible into common stock, such issuance would reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of each other stockholder. In addition, such stock issuances might result in a reduction of the book value of our common stock.. Anti - takeover provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti - takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, protective provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws or the implementation by our Board of Directors of a stockholder rights plan could prevent a takeover, which could harm our stockholders.. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and this may make it difficult for stockholders to resell shares of common stock at times or may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of common stock at prices they find attractive.. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in financial estimates and buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated variations in our operating results;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour earnings releases and financial performance;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket conditions in our industry and the general state of the securities markets;. 21. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactions by institutional stockholders;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestor perception of us and the industry and markets in which we operate;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic conditions in the United States and Canada;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinternational disorder and instability in foreign financial markets, including but not limited to potential sovereign defaults; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother factors described in \"Risk Factors.\". A cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers.. We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. We also use mobile devices and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. Such uses of technology give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the Company and its business partners. Further, if the Company in the future pursues acquisitions or new initiatives that require expanding or improving our information technologies, this may result in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. Further, despite these security measures, the Company's computer systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. Additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage.. Additional Risks of Our Environmental Services Business. A significant portion of our business depends upon non - recurring event cleanup projects over which we have no control.. A significant portion of our disposal revenue is attributable to discrete Event Business which varies widely in size, duration and unit pricing. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 22% of our T&D revenue was derived from Event Business projects. The one - time nature of Event Business, diverse spectrum of waste types received and widely varying unit pricing necessarily creates variability in revenue and earnings. This variability may be influenced by general and industry - specific economic conditions, funding availability, changes in laws and regulations, government enforcement actions or court orders, public controversy, litigation, weather, commercial real estate, closed military bases and other project timing, government appropriation and funding cycles and other factors. This variability can cause significant quarter - to - quarter and year - to - year differences in revenue, gross profit, gross margin, operating income and net income. Also, while we pursue many large projects months or years in advance of work performance, both large and small cleanup project opportunities routinely arise with little or no prior notice. These market dynamics are inherent to the waste disposal business and are factored into our projections and externally communicated business outlook statements. Our projections combine historical experience with identified sales pipeline opportunities, new or expanded service line projections and prevailing market conditions. A reduction in the number and size of new cleanup projects won to replace completed work could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approvals and contracts for construction of additional disposal space by the time our current disposal capacity is exhausted, our business would be adversely affected.. Construction of new disposal capacity at our operating disposal facilities beyond currently permitted capacity requires state and provincial regulatory agency approvals. Administrative processes for such approval reviews vary. The State of Texas, which regulates our Robstown facility, provides for an adjudicatory hearing process administered by a hearing officer appointed by the State. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining future expansion approvals in a timely manner or at all. If we are not successful in receiving these approvals, our disposal capacity could eventually be exhausted, preventing us from accepting additional waste at an affected facility. This would have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we are unable to renew our operating permits or lease agreements with regulatory bodies, our business would be adversely affected.. Our facilities operate using permits and licenses issued by various regulatory bodies at various state, provincial and federal government levels. In addition, three of our facilities operate on land leased from government agencies. Failure to renew our permits and licenses necessary to operate our facilities or failure to renew or maintain compliance with our site lease agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance we will continue to be successful in obtaining timely permit applications approval, maintaining compliance with our lease agreements and obtaining timely lease renewals.. Our business requires the handling of dangerous substances. Improper handling of such substances could result in an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to unexpected occurrences related, or unrelated, to the routine handling of dangerous substances. A fire or other incident could impair the ability of one or more facilities to continue to perform normal operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Improper handling of these substances could also violate laws and regulations resulting in fines and/or suspension of operations.. If we are unable to obtain at a reasonable cost or under reasonable terms and conditions the necessary levels of insurance and financial assurances required for operations, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.. We are required by law, license, permit and prudence to maintain various insurance instruments and financial assurances. We carry a broad range of insurance coverages that we believe are customary for a company of our size in our business. We obtain these coverages to mitigate risk of loss, allowing us to manage our self - insured exposure from potential claims. We are self - insured for employee health - care coverage. Stop - loss insurance is carried covering liability on claims in excess of $200,000 per individual. Accrued costs related to the self - insured health care coverage were $1.1 million and $1.0 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We also maintain a Pollution and Remediation Legal Liability Policy pursuant to RCRA regulations subject to a $250,000 self - insured retention. In addition, we are insured for consultant's environmental liability subject to a $100,000 self - insured retention. We are also insured for losses or damage to third party property or people subject to a $100,000 self - insured retention. If our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than expected, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial condition and results of operation.. Through December 31, 2017, we have met our financial assurance requirements through a combination of insurance policies, commercial surety bonds and trust funds. Our insurance policies covering closure and post - closure activities expire in April 2018 and December 2018 for covered U.S. operating facilities (dedicated state - controlled closure and post - closure funds provide financial assurance for our Washington and Nevada facilities). We continue to use self - funded trust accounts for our post - closure obligations at our U.S. non - operating sites. We use commercial surety bonds for our Canadian operations that expire in November and December 2018, respectively. We currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. While we expect to continue renewing these policies and surety bonds, if we were unable to obtain adequate closure, post - closure or environmental insurance, bonds or other instruments in the future, any partially or completely uninsured claim against us, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a. 23. Table of Contents. material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, continued access to casualty and pollution legal liability insurance with sufficient limits, at acceptable terms, is important to obtaining new business. Failure to maintain adequate financial assurance could also result in regulatory action including early closure of facilities. As of December 31, 2017, we have provided collateral of $5.8 million in funded trust agreements, $12.0 million in surety bonds, issued $2.7 million in letters of credit for financial assurance and have insurance policies of approximately $87.4 million for closure and post - closure obligations at covered U.S. operating facilities. We have $752,000 in commercial surety bonds dedicated for closure obligations at our Canadian operating facility. While we believe we will be able to maintain the requisite financial assurance policies at a reasonable cost, premium and collateral requirements may materially increase. Such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The hazardous and radioactive waste industries in which we operate are subject to litigation risk.. The handling of radioactive, PCBs and hazardous material subjects us to potential liability claims by employees, contractors, property owners, neighbors and others. There can be no assurance that our existing liability insurance is adequate to cover claims asserted against us or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future. Adverse rulings in judicial or administrative proceedings could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to obtain timely or cost effective transportation services which could adversely affect our profitability.. Revenue at each of our facilities is subject to potential risks from disruptions in rail or truck transportation services relied upon to deliver waste to our facilities. Increases in fuel costs and unforeseen events such as labor disputes, public health pandemics, severe weather, natural disasters and other acts of God, war or terror could prevent or delay shipments and reduce both volumes and revenue. Our rail transportation service agreements with our customers generally allow us to pass on fuel surcharges assessed by the railroads. This may decrease or eliminate our exposure to fuel cost increases. Transportation services may be limited by economic conditions, including increased demand for rail or trucking services, resulting in periods of slower service to the point that individual customer needs cannot be met. No assurance can be given that we can procure transportation services in a timely manner at competitive rates or pass through fuel cost increases in all cases. Such factors could also limit our ability to achieve revenue and earnings objectives.. We may not be able to effectively adopt or adapt to new or improved technologies.. We expect to continue implementing new or improved technologies at our facilities to meet customer service demands and expand our business. If we are unable to identify and implement new technologies in response to market conditions and customer requirements in a timely, cost effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Our financial results could be adversely affected by foreign exchange fluctuations.. We operate in the United States and Canada but report revenue, costs and earnings in U.S. dollars. Exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar are likely to fluctuate from period to period. Because our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, we are subject to the risk of non - cash translation losses for reporting purposes. If we continue to expand our international operations, we will conduct more transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent that foreign revenue and expense transactions are not denominated in the local currency, we are further subject to the risk of transaction losses. We have not entered into derivative instruments to offset the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to risks associated with operating in a foreign country.. Our Canadian subsidiaries' facilities are located in Blainville, Québec and Tilbury, Ontario, Canada and use the Canadian dollar as their functional currency. International operations are subject to risks that may have material adverse effects on. 24. Table of Contents. our financial condition and results of operations. The risks that our international operations are subject to include, among other things:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tforeign labor union relations;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trepatriation of cash from Canadian subsidiaries to the United States;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timposition of additional taxes on our foreign income; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory, economic and public policy changes.. Additional Risks of Our Field & Industrial Services Business. A significant portion of our Field & Industrial Services segment depends upon the demand for cleanup of spills and other remedial projects and regulatory developments over which we have no control.. A significant portion of our Field & Industrial Services segment consists of remediation, recycling, industrial cleaning and maintenance, transportation, total waste management, technical services, and emergency response services. Demand for these services can be affected by the commencement and completion of cleanup of major spills and other events, customers' decisions to undertake remedial projects, seasonal fluctuations due to weather and budgetary cycles influencing the timing of customers' spending for remedial activities, the timing of regulatory decisions relating to hazardous waste management projects, changes in regulations governing the management of hazardous waste, changes in the waste processing industry towards waste minimization and the propensity for delays in the demand for remedial services, and changes in governmental regulations relevant to our diverse operations. We do not control such factors and, as a result, our revenue and income can vary from quarter to quarter or year to year, and past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance.. Additional Risks of Completed and Potential Acquisitions. Acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our results of operations.. Acquisitions involve multiple risks. Our inability to successfully integrate an acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These risks include but are not limited to:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure of the acquired company to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tassumption of liabilities, including those related to environmental matters, that were not disclosed to us or that exceed our estimates;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproblems integrating the purchased operations with our own, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential compliance issues relating to the protection of health and the environment, compliance with securities laws and regulations, adequacy of internal controls and other matters;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiversion of management's attention or other resources from our existing business;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trisks associated with entering markets or product/service areas in which we have limited prior experience;. 25. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreases in working capital investment to fund the growth of acquired operations;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunexpected capital expenditures to upgrade waste handling or other infrastructure or replace equipment to operate safely and efficiently;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuture write - offs of intangible and other assets, including goodwill, if the acquired operations fail to generate sufficient cash flows.. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully, if at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business, failure to implement the business plan for the combined businesses, unanticipated issues in integrating service offerings, logistics information, communications and other systems or other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities, any or all of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.. In the event that we undertake future acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully execute our acquisition strategy.. We may experience delays in making acquisitions or be unable to make acquisitions we desire for a number of reasons. Suitable acquisition candidates may not be available at purchase prices that are attractive to us or on terms that are acceptable to us. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we typically compete with other companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. We may not have available funds or common stock with a sufficient market price to complete an acquisition. If we are unable to secure sufficient funding for potential acquisitions, we may not be able to complete acquisitions that we otherwise find advantageous.. The timing and number of acquisitions we pursue may cause volatility in our financial results.. We are unable to predict the size, timing and number of acquisitions we may complete, if any. In addition, we may incur expenses associated with sourcing, evaluating and negotiating acquisitions (including those that are not completed), and we also may pay fees and expenses associated with financing acquisitions to investment banks and others. Any of these amounts may be substantial, and together with the size, timing and number of acquisitions we pursue, may negatively impact and cause significant volatility in our financial results and the price of our common stock."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
