[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. We are subject to many risks and uncertainties including, without limitation, with respect to our results of operations and cash flows. Some of these risks and uncertainties may cause our financial performance, business or operations to vary, or they may materially or adversely affect our financial performance. These are discussed below. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report are not the only ones we face. Others - which are not currently known to us, or that we believe are immaterial - also may adversely affect our financial performance, business or operations.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. Our business is a low-margin business, and our profitability is directly affected by cost deflation or inflation, commodity volatility and other factors.. The U.S. foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins. Volatile commodity costs have a direct impact on our industry. We make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell, plus a percentage margin. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively affected during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. Prolonged periods of product cost inflation also may reduce our profit margins and earnings, if product cost increases cannot be passed on to customers because they resist paying higher prices. In addition, periods of rapid inflation may have a negative effect on our business. There may be a lag between the time of the price increase and the time at which we are able to pass it along to customers, as well as the impact it may have on discretionary spending by consumers.. Competition in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to compete successfully.. The U.S. foodservice distribution industry is highly competitive. Our largest competitor has greater financial and other resources than we do. Furthermore, there are a large number of local and regional distributors. These companies often align themselves with other smaller distributors through purchasing cooperatives and marketing groups. The goal is to enhance their geographic reach, private label offerings, overall purchasing power, cost efficiencies, and ability to meet customer distribution requirements. These distributors also rely on local presence as a source of competitive advantage, and they may have lower costs and other competitive advantages due to geographic proximity. Additionally, adjacent competition, such as cash-and-carry operations, commercial wholesale outlets, club stores and grocery stores, continue to serve the commercial foodservice market. We also experience competition from online direct food wholesalers, such as Amazon.com. We generally do not have exclusive service agreements with our customers, and they may switch to other suppliers that offer lower prices, differentiated products, or customer service that is perceived to be superior. The cost of switching suppliers is very low, as are the barriers to entry into the U.S. foodservice distribution industry. We believe most purchasing decisions in the U.S. foodservice distribution industry are based on the quality and price of the product, plus a distributor's ability to completely and accurately fill orders and provide timely deliveries.. Increased competition has caused the U.S. foodservice distribution industry to change, as distributors seek to lower costs, further increasing pressure on the industry's profit margins. Heightened competition among our suppliers, significant pricing initiatives or discount programs established by competitors, new entrants, and trends toward vertical integration could create additional competitive pressures that reduce margins and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We rely on third-party suppliers, and our business may be affected by interruption of supplies or increases in product costs.. We obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. We typically do not have long-term contracts with suppliers. Although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, they may not provide the foodservice products and supplies we need in the quantities and at the prices requested. We do not control the actual production of most of the products we sell. This means we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside our control. These conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of. 10. Table of Contents. suppliers; severe weather; crop conditions; product recalls; transportation interruptions; unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs; competitive demands; and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to, the outbreak of food-borne illnesses in the United States). Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products because of any of these or other factors could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to our customers and, as a result, our customers may turn to other distributors.. A change in our relationships with GPOs could negatively affect our relationships with customers, which could reduce our profitability.. No single customer represented more than 3% of our total net sales in fiscal year 2017. However, some of our customers purchase their products under arrangements with GPOs. GPOs act as agents on behalf of their members by negotiating pricing, delivery, and other terms with us. Our customers who are members of GPOs purchase products directly from us on the terms negotiated by their GPO. GPOs use the combined purchasing power of their members to lower the prices paid by their members, and we have experienced some pricing pressure from customers who associate with GPOs. Approximately 25% of our net sales in fiscal year 2017 were made by customers under terms negotiated by GPOs. To the extent our customers, for example, independent restaurants who do not typically negotiate directly with GPOs, are able to independently negotiate competitive pricing or become members of GPOs, we may be forced to lower our prices so they will remain customers, which would negatively affect operating margins. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our relationships with GPOs, or if GPOs are able to negotiate more favorable terms for their members with our competitors, we could lose some or all of that business. This could adversely affect our future operating profits.. Our relationships with our customers, including key long-term customers and GPOs, may be materially diminished or terminated.. Most of our customers buy from us pursuant to individual purchase orders, and we often do not enter into long-term agreements with these customers. Because such customers are not obligated to continue purchasing products from us, we cannot be assured that the volume and/or number of our customers' purchase orders will remain constant or increase or that we will be able to maintain our existing customer base. Significant decreases in the volume and/or number of our customers' purchase orders or our inability to retain or grow our current customer base may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We have long-standing relationships with a number of our customers and GPOs, many of whom could unilaterally terminate their relationship with us or materially reduce the amount of business they conduct with us at any time. Market competition, customer requirements, customer financial condition and customer consolidation through mergers or acquisitions also could adversely affect our ability to continue or expand these relationships. There is no guarantee that we will be able to retain or renew existing agreements, maintain relationships with any of our customers or GPOs on acceptable terms or at all or collect amounts owed to us from insolvent customers. Our customer and GPO agreements are generally terminable upon advance written notice (typically ranging from 30 days to six months) by either us or the customer or GPO, which provides our customers or GPOs with the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to award more business to our competitors. The loss of one or more of our major customers or GPOs could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If we fail to increase or maintain our sales to independent restaurant customers, our profitability may suffer.. Our most profitable customers are independent restaurants. We tend to work closely with these customers, providing them access to our customer value added tools and as a result are able to earn a higher operating margin on sales to them. Our ability to continue to gain market share of independent restaurant customers is critical to achieving increased operating profits. Changes in the buying practices of independent restaurant customers, including their ability to require us to sell to them at discounted rates, or decreases in our sales to this type of customer could have a material negative impact on our profitability.. 11. Table of Contents. We may fail to effectively integrate the businesses we acquire.. Historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational, and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our profitability may decrease. Integrating acquired businesses may be more difficult in a region or market in which we have limited expertise. A significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and/or operational resources. Significant acquisitions may also require incurring additional debt. This could increase our interest expense and make it difficult for us to get favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments in the future.. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect from our cost savings initiatives.. We may not be able to realize some or all of our expected cost savings in the future. A variety of factors could cause us not to realize some of the expected cost savings. These include, among others, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost savings initiatives, lack of sustainability in cost savings over time, and unexpected costs associated with operating our business. All of these factors could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition, including by failing to offset any decreases in our profitability.. Significant increases in fuel costs could hurt our business.. The high cost of fuel can negatively affect consumer confidence and discretionary spending. This may reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home. The high cost of fuel can also increase the price we pay for products, as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. These factors, in turn, negatively affect our sales, margins, operating expenses, and operating results. Additionally, from time to time, we enter into forward purchase commitments for some of our fuel requirements at prices equal to the then-current market price. If fuel prices decrease significantly, these forward purchases may prove ineffective and result in us paying higher than market costs for part of our fuel.. An economic downturn, or other factors affecting consumer confidence, could reduce the amount of food prepared and consumed away from home, which could harm our business.. The U.S. foodservice market is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. In the past, an uneven level of general U.S. economic activity, uncertainty in the financial markets, and slow job growth has affected consumer confidence and discretionary spending. A renewed decline in economic activity, other factors affecting consumer confidence, and the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home may reduce our sales and operating results in the future. There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not reduce future operating results.. We may be subject to or affected by liability claims related to products we distribute.. As any seller of food, we may be exposed to liability claims in the event that the products we sell cause injury or illness. We believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance to cover product liability claims. However, our current insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying products to us. However, this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, by the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of our suppliers' insurance coverage. If we and our suppliers do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, the liability related to defective products could adversely affect our results of operations.. Any negative media exposure or other event that harms our reputation could hurt our business.. Maintaining a good reputation is critical to our business, particularly in selling our private label products. Any event that damages our reputation, justified or not, could quickly affect our revenues and profits. This includes adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our products. Reports, whether or not they are true, of food-borne illnesses (such as e. coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering could severely injure our reputation. If patrons of our national chain and. 12. Table of Contents. regional restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, the customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales would correspondingly decrease. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns, even those unrelated to our products, can result in negative publicity about the U.S. foodservice distribution industry and dramatically reduce our sales.. We face risks related to labor relations and the availability of qualified labor.. As of December 30, 2017, we had 25,355 employees, of which approximately 4,600 were members of local unions associated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and other labor organizations. Our failure to effectively renegotiate any CBAs could result in work stoppages. We may, from time to time, be subject to increased efforts to subject us to multi-location labor disputes, as individual labor agreements expire or labor disputes arise. This would place us at greater risk of being unable to continue to operate one or more facilities, delaying deliveries, possibly causing customers to seek alternative suppliers, or otherwise being materially adversely affected by labor disputes. From time to time, when there are labor related issues at a facility represented by a local union, sympathy strikes occur at other facilities that are represented by other local unions. While we believe we have generally satisfactory relationships with our employees, including the unions that represent some of our employees, a work stoppage due to our failure to renegotiate union contracts or for other reasons could have a significant negative effect on us.. Further, potential changes in labor legislation and case law could result in currently non-union portions of our workforce, such as our warehouse and delivery personnel, being subjected to greater organized labor influence. Should additional portions of our workforce be subject to CBAs, this could result in increased costs of doing business as we may be subject to mandatory, binding arbitration or labor scheduling, costs and standards, which may reduce our operating flexibility.. We are subject to a wide range of labor costs. Because our labor costs are, as a percentage of net sales, higher than many other industries, even if we are able to renegotiate CBAs and avoid work stoppages, we may be significantly harmed by labor cost increases. In addition, labor is a significant cost of many of our customers in the U.S. food-away-from-home industry. Any increase in their labor costs, including any increases in costs as a result of increases in minimum wage requirements, could reduce the profitability of our customers and reduce demand for our products.. Additionally, we risk a shortage of qualified labor. Recruiting and retention efforts, and actions to increase productivity, may not be successful, and we could encounter a shortage of qualified labor in the future. Such a shortage could potentially increase labor costs, reduce profitability and/or decrease our ability to effectively serve customers.. If our competitors implement a lower cost structure, they may be able to offer reduced prices to customers. We may be unable to adjust our cost structure to compete profitably.. Over the last several decades, the food retail industry has undergone a significant change. Companies such as Wal-Mart and Costco have developed a lower cost structure, so they can provide their customers with an everyday low-cost product offering. In addition, commercial wholesale outlets, such as Restaurant Depot, offer an additional low-cost option in the markets they serve. As a large-scale U.S. foodservice distributor, we have similar strategies to remain competitive in the marketplace by reducing our cost structure. However, to the extent more of our competitors adopt an everyday low price strategy, we would potentially be pressured to offer lower prices to our customers. That would require us to achieve additional cost savings to offset these reductions. We may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in that environment.. Our business is subject to significant environmental, health and safety regulation. Failure to comply with such regulations could adversely affect our operating costs.. Our operations face a broad range of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment or health and safety. These laws govern numerous issues, including discharges to air, soil and water; the handling and disposal of hazardous substances; the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from the release of petroleum products and other hazardous substances; employee health and safety; and fleet safety. In the course of our operations, we operate and maintain vehicle fleets, use and dispose of hazardous. 13. Table of Contents. substances, and store fuel in on-site aboveground and underground storage tanks. At several current and former facilities, we are investigating and remediating known or suspected contamination from historical releases of fuel and other hazardous substances. Although the known or suspected contamination at these facilities is not currently the subject of any administrative or judicial proceeding, we cannot provide assurance that we will not be the subject of administrative or judicial proceedings in the future for contamination related to releases of fuel or other hazardous substances. Further, we cannot be sure that compliance with, or liability under, existing or future environmental, health and safety laws, such as those related to remediation obligations, will not adversely affect our future operating results.. Some jurisdictions in which we operate have laws that affect the composition and operation of truck fleets, such as limits on diesel emissions and engine idling. A number of our facilities have ammonia or freon-based refrigeration systems, which could cause injury or environmental damage if accidentally released. In addition, many of our distribution centers have propane and battery powered forklifts. Proposed or recently enacted legal requirements, such as those requiring the phase-out of certain ozone-depleting substances, and proposals for the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, may require us to upgrade or replace equipment, or may increase our transportation or other operating costs.. If we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business.. We are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, and local levels in many areas of our business, including food holding and processing, trade, anticorruption, transportation, employment, and other areas of safety and compliance. Failing to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in a number of adverse situations. These could include administrative, civil, or criminal penalties or fines; mandatory or voluntary product recalls; warning letters; cease and desist orders against operations that are not in compliance; closing facilities or operations; the loss, revocation, or modification of any existing licenses, permits, registrations, or approvals; and the failure to get additional licenses, permits, registrations, or approvals in new jurisdictions where we intend to do business. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. These laws and regulations may change in the future, and we may incur material costs to comply with them, or to comply with any required product recalls as a result of such changes. A more detailed discussion of some of the laws and regulations that we are subject to can be found in \"Business - Government Regulation.\". Additionally, due to contracts we have with governmental entities, state governmental agencies have, from time to time, conducted audits of our pricing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. We also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits.. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulation, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions, seizures or debarments from contracting with the government. The cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, governmental entities may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require us to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations.. We rely heavily on technology, and any disruption in existing technology or delay in implementing new technology could adversely affect our business.. Our ability to control costs and maximize profits, as well as to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our information technology systems and related data entry processes in our transaction intensive business. We rely on software and other information technology to manage significant aspects of our business, such as purchases, order processing, warehouse/inventory management, truck loading and logistics and optimization of storage space. Any disruption to this information technology could negatively affect our customer service, decrease the volume of our business, and result in increased costs. We have invested and continue to invest in technology. 14. Table of Contents. security initiatives, business continuity, and disaster recovery plans. However, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could impair operations and profits.. Information technology evolves rapidly. To compete effectively, we are required to integrate new technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner. If competitors implement new technologies before we do, allowing them to provide lower priced or enhanced services of superior quality compared to those we provide, our operations and profits could be affected.. A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively affect our business and our relationships with customers.. We rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, to process online credit card payments, and to manage or support virtually all of our business processes and activities. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and our customers. These uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft, online platform hijacking that could redirect online credit card payments to another credit card processing website, and inadvertent or unauthorized release of information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about us and our business partners. Further, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding increase in exposure to cybersecurity risk. Additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability, and competitive disadvantage.. Our retirement benefits could give rise to significant expenses and liabilities in the future.. We sponsor defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. Pension and postretirement obligations give rise to costs that are dependent on various assumptions including those discussed in Note 17, Retirement Plans, to our consolidated financial statements.  In addition to the plans we sponsor, we also participate in various \"multiemployer\" pension plans administered by labor unions representing some of our employees. We make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. In the event that we withdraw from participating in one of these plans, then-applicable law could require us to make additional withdrawal liability payments to the plan, and we would have to reflect such liabilities on our balance sheet. Our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits.. In the ordinary course of our renegotiation of CBAs with labor unions that maintain these plans, we could decide to discontinue participation in a plan. In that event, we could face a withdrawal liability. We could also be treated as withdrawing from participation in one of these plans, if the number of our employees participating in these plans is reduced to a certain degree over certain periods of time. Such reductions in the number of employees participating in these plans could occur as a result of changes in our business operations, such as facility closures or consolidations. Some multiemployer plans, including ones in which we participate, are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. Such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. For a detailed description of our retirement plans, see Note 17, Retirement Plans, to our consolidated financial statements.. Extreme weather conditions and natural disasters may interrupt our business, or our customers' businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Some of our facilities and our customers' facilities are located in areas that may be subject to extreme, and occasionally prolonged, weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, and extreme cold. Extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations or reduce the number of consumers who visit our customers' facilities in such areas. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede. 15. Table of Contents. access to our customers' facilities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Adverse judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we are or may be involved in the normal course of our business could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business.. In the normal course of our business, we are involved in various legal proceedings. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If any of these proceedings were to be determined adversely to us or a settlement involving a payment of a material sum of money were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or ability to operate our business. Additionally, we could become the subject of future claims by third parties, including our employees, suppliers, customers, our investors, or regulators. Any significant adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business.. Changes in consumer eating habits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Changes in consumer eating habits (such as a decline in consuming food away from home, a decline in portion sizes, or a shift in preferences toward restaurants that are not our customers) could reduce demand for our products. Consumer eating habits could be affected by a number of factors, including changes in attitudes regarding diet and health or new information regarding the health effects of consuming certain foods. There is a growing consumer preference for sustainable, organic and locally grown products. Changing consumer eating habits also occur due to generational shifts. Millennials, the largest demographic group in the U.S. in terms of spend, seek new and different as well as more ethnic menu options and menu innovation. Millennials also value diversity. If consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue sales of certain items in our product portfolio, and we may experience higher costs associated with the implementation of those changes. Changing consumer eating habits may reduce the frequency with which consumers purchase meals outside of the home. Additionally, changes in consumer eating habits may result in the enactment or amendment of laws and regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, or laws and regulations requiring us to disclose the nutritional content of our food products. Compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as others regarding the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, may be costly and time-consuming. If we are not able to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions or resulting new laws or regulations or to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits, our business and results of operations could suffer.. We rely on trademarks, trade secrets, and other forms of intellectual property protections; however, these protections may not be adequate.. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws in the United States. We have applied in the United States and in certain other countries for registration of a limited number of trademarks, some of which have been registered or issued. We cannot guarantee that our applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities, or that third parties will not seek to oppose or otherwise challenge our registrations or applications. We also rely on unregistered proprietary rights, including common law trademark protection. However, third parties may use trademarks identical or confusingly similar to ours, or independently develop trade secrets or know-how similar or equivalent to ours. If our proprietary information is divulged to third parties, including our competitors, or our intellectual property rights are otherwise misappropriated or infringed, our competitive position could be harmed.. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or potentially prevent us from selling our products.. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with their use of our products. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our management and personnel. Moreover, should we be found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and to cease making or selling. 16. Table of Contents. certain products. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. We have substantial debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to raise additional capital or obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business, and make payments on our debt.. As of December 30, 2017, we had $3,757 million of indebtedness, net of $16 million of unamortized deferred financing costs.. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to us, including the following:. •  our ability to obtain additional financing or use our cash flows for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes, and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness may be impaired in the future;. •  a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes;. •  we are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because approximately 46% of the principal amount of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest as of December 30, 2017;. •  it may be difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness;. •  we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and they, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns;. •  our ability to refinance indebtedness may be limited or the associated costs of refinancing may increase; and. •  our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, or we may be prevented from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins of our business.. Despite our substantial indebtedness levels, we may be able to incur substantially more debt, including secured debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business.. Our credit facilities and indenture contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to do the following:. •  dispose of assets;. •  incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees of additional indebtedness);. •  pay dividends and make certain payments;. •  create liens on assets;. •  make investments (including joint ventures);. 17. Table of Contents. •  engage in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of our assets;. •  engage in certain transactions with affiliates;. •  change the business conducted by us; and. •  amend specific debt agreements.. In addition, if borrowing availability under the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Agreement, dated October 20, 2015, as amended, USF's asset backed senior secured revolving loan facility (the \"ABL Facility\"), plus the amount of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents held by us, falls below a specified threshold of $118 million on any three consecutive business days, the borrowers under such facility, which are our subsidiaries, are required to comply with a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0:1.0. In addition, if our borrowing availability under the ABL Facility falls below $130 million on any two consecutive business days or, solely with respect to the ABL Facility, certain cash management covenants or borrowing base delivery requirements are breached, or a payment default or bankruptcy event occurs, additional reporting responsibilities are triggered under the ABL Facility and USF's accounts receivable financing facility dated as of August 27, 2012, as amended (the \"2012 ABS Facility\").. Our ability to comply with these provisions in future periods will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, as discussed under \"Risks Related to Our Business and Industry,\" above. Our ability to comply with these provisions in future periods will also depend substantially on the pricing of our products, our success at implementing cost reduction initiatives and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy.. The restrictions under the terms of our credit facilities and indenture may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit facilities and indenture may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under our credit facilities and indenture that would permit the applicable lenders or note holders, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. In any such case, we may be unable to borrow under and may not be able to repay the amounts due under our credit facilities. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent.. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal on our debt facilities and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our obligations under our debt facilities, depends on our financial and operating performance. This, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the financial and business factors, many of which may be beyond our control, as described under \"Risks Related to our Business and Industry,\" above.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, raise additional equity capital or restructure our debt. However, there is no assurance that such alternative measures may be successful and, as a result, we may not be able to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our credit facilities and indenture restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions. As a result, we cannot assure you we will be able to consummate those sales,. 18. Table of Contents. or, if we do, what the timing of the sales will be or whether the proceeds that we realize will be adequate to meet the debt service obligations when due.. The 2012 ABS and the ABL Facilities mature in 2020. The amended and restated senior secured term loan, (the \"Amended and Restated 2016 Term Loan\") will mature in 2023. The 5.875% unsecured senior notes (the \"2016 Senior Notes\") will mature in 2024. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, particularly due to our substantial level of indebtedness and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions.. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability.. After considering interest rate swaps that fixed the interest rate on $1.1 billion of principal of our Amended and Restated 2016 Term Loan, approximately 46% of the principal amount of our debt bears interest at variable rates as of December 30, 2017. As a result, an increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. The impact of such an increase would be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial indebtedness.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may change significantly, and you may not be able to resell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid or at all, and you could lose all or part of your investment as a result.. The stock market routinely experiences periods of large or extreme volatility. In some instances, this volatility is unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies.. The trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected due to a number of factors such as those listed in \"Risks Related to Our Business and Industry\" and the following, most of which we cannot control:. •  results of operations that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. •  results of operations that vary from those of our competitors;. •  changes in expectations as to our or our industry's future financial performance, including financial estimates and investment recommendations by securities analysts and investors, and the publication of research reports regarding the same;. •  declines in the market prices of stocks, trading volumes and company valuations generally, particularly those of foodservice distribution companies;. •  strategic actions by us or our competitors;. •  changes in preferences of our customers; and purchasing habits of consumers;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures, other strategic relationships, or capital commitments;. •  changes in general economic or market conditions or trends in our industry or markets;. •  changes in business or regulatory conditions;. •  future sales of our common stock or other securities;. •  investor perceptions or the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives;. •  a default on our indebtedness or a downgrade in our or our competitors' credit ratings;. •  the public's response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC;. •  changes in senior management or key personnel;. •  announcements relating to litigation;. 19. Table of Contents. •  guidance, if any, that we provide to the public, any changes in this guidance, or our failure to meet this guidance;. •  the sustainability of an active trading market for our stock;. •  changes in accounting principles;. •  occurrences of extreme or inclement weather; and. •  other events or factors, including those resulting from natural disasters, war, or acts of terrorism, or responses to these events.. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of executive management from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation.. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. We have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The declaration, amount, and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition, and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax, and regulatory restrictions, implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us, and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by covenants of our existing debt agreements and may be limited by covenants of any future indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer, or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt, or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders.. These provisions provide for, among other things:. •  a classified Board of Directors, dividing our Board of Directors into three classes, with each class serving for staggered three-year terms, which prevents stockholders from electing an entirely new Board of Directors at a single annual meeting;. •  the issuance of one or more series of preferred stock that could be used by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt;. •  an advance notice requirement for nominations of directors by stockholders and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at our stockholder meetings;. •  a prohibition on stockholders calling special meetings of stockholders;. •  subject to any rights of holders of preferred stock, a limitation on stockholders' ability to remove directors;. •  subject to any rights of holders of preferred stock, the filling of vacancies on the Board of Directors, including newly-created directorships, only by a majority vote of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director;. •  a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and. •  subject to the approval of our stockholders of a restatement of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to eliminate supermajority voting, the approval of at least 75% of our outstanding shares of common stock to amend certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws.. 20. Table of Contents. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-party's offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation includes provisions limiting the personal liability of our directors for breaches of fiduciary duty under the DGCL.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions permitted under the DGCL relating to the liability of directors. These provisions eliminate a director's personal liability to the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL for monetary damages resulting from a breach of fiduciary duty, except in circumstances involving:. •  any breach of the director's duty of loyalty;. •  acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of the law;. •  Section 174 of the DGCL (unlawful dividends); or. •  any transaction from which the director derives an improper personal benefit.. The principal effect of the limitation on liability provision is that a stockholder will be unable to prosecute an action for monetary damages against a director unless the stockholder can demonstrate a basis for liability for which indemnification is not available under the DGCL. These provisions, however, should not limit or eliminate our rights or any stockholder's rights to seek non-monetary relief, such as an injunction or rescission, in the event of a breach of a director's fiduciary duty. These provisions will not alter a director's liability under federal securities laws. The inclusion of this provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit against directors for a breach of their fiduciary duties, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited us and our stockholders."
