[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results, business, financial condition and cash flows to differ from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K.  You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements made herein because such statements speak only to the date they were made. We undertake no obligation or duty to revise or update any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect subsequent events or circumstances or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. Also refer to the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in Part I of this Form 10-K.. Our business is subject to general economic, credit, and business factors affecting the trucking industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. The truckload industry is highly cyclical, and our business is dependent on a number of factors that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control. We believe that some of the most significant of these factors include (i) excess tractor and trailer capacity in the trucking industry in comparison with shipping demand; (ii) driver shortages and increases in driver compensation; (iii) declines in the resale value of used equipment; (iv) compliance with ongoing regulatory requirements; (v) strikes, work stoppages, or work slowdowns at our facilities or at customer, port, border crossing, or other shipping-related facilities; (vi) increases in interest rates, fuel taxes, tolls, and license and registration fees; and (vii) rising costs of healthcare.. We are affected by (i) recessionary economic cycles such as the 2016 freight environment, which was characterized by weak demand and downward pressure on rates; (ii) changes in customers’ inventory levels and practices, including shrinking product/package sizes, and in the availability of funding for their working capital; and (iii) downturns in our customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries, such as retail and manufacturing, where we have significant customer concentration, and regions of the country, such as the Midwest and Southeast, where we have a significant amount of business. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers and their demand for and ability to pay for our services. We may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts for customers encountering adverse economic conditions.. 11. Table of Contents. Economic conditions that decrease shipping demand or increase the supply of available tractors and trailers can exert downward pressure on rates and equipment utilization, thereby decreasing asset productivity. For our USAT Logistics segment, imbalance between capacity and demand is usually favorable to our financial performance, while market equilibrium lessens our value to either shippers or carriers. The risks associated with these factors are heightened when the United States economy is weakened. Some of the principal risks during such times, which risks we have experienced during prior recessionary periods, are as follows:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may experience low overall freight levels, which may reduce our asset utilization;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfreight patterns may change as supply chains are redesigned, resulting in an imbalance between our capacity and our customers’ freight demand;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcustomers may bid out freight or select competitors that offer lower rates in an attempt to lower their costs, and we might be forced to lower our rates or lose freight;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be forced to accept more loads from freight brokers, where freight rates are typically lower, or may be forced to incur more non-revenue generating miles to obtain loads; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlack of access to current sources of capital, leading to an inability to secure financing on satisfactory terms, or at all.. We are subject to cost increases that are outside our control that could materially reduce our profitability if we are unable to increase our rates sufficiently. Such costs include, but are not limited to, increases in fuel prices, driver and office employee wages, purchased transportation costs, taxes, interest rates, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance and claims, revenue equipment and related maintenance, tires and other components, and healthcare and other benefits for our employees. Further, we may not be able to appropriately adjust our costs to changing market demands. In order to maintain high variability in our business model, it is necessary to adjust staffing levels to changing market demands. In periods of rapid change, it is more difficult to match our staffing level to our business needs.. Changing impacts of regulatory measures could adversely impact our operating efficiency and productivity, decrease our operating revenues and profitability, and result in higher operating costs. In addition, declines in the resale value of revenue equipment can also affect our profitability and cash flows. From time to time, various federal, state, or local taxes could also increase, including taxes on fuels. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any such increase will be enacted that may be applicable to us, but such an increase could adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, we cannot predict future economic conditions, fuel price fluctuations, or how consumer confidence could be affected by actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, government efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or group located in a foreign state, or heightened security requirements. Enhanced security measures in connection with such events could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs.. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to improve our results of operations.. Numerous competitive factors present in our industry could impair our ability to maintain or improve our current profitability and could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.  These factors include the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers, railroads, intermodal providers, freight brokers, and other transportation and logistics companies, many of which have access to more equipment and greater capital resources than we do.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMany of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy or overcapacity, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain growth in our business or may require us to reduce our freight rates in order to maintain business and keep our equipment productive.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may increase the size of our fleet during periods of high freight demand during which our competitors also increase their capacity, and we may experience losses in greater amounts than such competitors during subsequent cycles of softened freight demand if we are required to dispose of assets at a loss to match reduced customer demand;. 12. Table of Contents. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSome of our customers are other transportation companies or also operate their own private trucking fleets, and they may decide to transport more of their own freight.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMany customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved service providers or by engaging dedicated providers, and in some instances we may not be selected.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMany customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some of our business to competitors.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size, and we may have difficulty competing with these larger carriers.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe market for qualified drivers is increasingly competitive, and our inability to attract and retain drivers could reduce our equipment utilization or cause us to increase compensation, both of which would adversely affect our profitability.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCompetition from non-asset-based and other logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and freight rates.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tEconomies of scale that procurement aggregation providers may pass on to smaller carriers may improve their ability to compete with us.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAdvances in technology may require us to increase investments in order to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tHigher fuel prices and, in turn, higher fuel surcharges to our customers may cause some of our customers to consider freight transportation alternatives, including rail transportation.. We face various risks associated with stockholder activists, which may be disruptive to our business.. Activist stockholders have in the past advocated for certain changes at USA Truck and may attempt to gain representation on or control of our board of directors, through a proxy contest or other means, the possibility of which may create uncertainty regarding our future.  These perceived uncertainties may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, raise customer concerns, or cause volatility in the price of our common stock.  The presence of such activist stockholders, a potential proxy contest, or an activist stockholder lawsuit also may create a significant distraction for our management team and require us to expend significant time and resources, depending on the nature of the activists’ agendas, and could interfere with our ability to execute our strategic initiatives.  Although we are not currently aware of any activist stockholders who own a substantial portion of our stock at this time, we cannot assure you that we will be able to agree to favorable terms with activist stockholders that might acquire an interest in our Company.. Certain provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law could deter acquisition proposals and make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company.. Provisions in our Restated and Amended Certificate of Incorporation (“Certificate of Incorporation”) may discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control or changes in our board of directors or management that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Without stockholder approval, our board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company. Our Certificate of Incorporation also provides:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfor a classified board of directors, whereby directors serve for staggered three-year terms, making it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of the board of directors through a single proxy contest;. 13. Table of Contents. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthat vacancies on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors in office, even if only one director remains in office;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthat directors may only be removed for “cause” and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of our outstanding common stock;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthat the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock is required to approve any merger or consolidation with any other business entity that requires approval of the stockholders;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthat stockholders can only act by written consent if such consent is signed by the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthat each of the provisions set forth above may only be amended by the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock.. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws also require advance notice of all stockholder proposals, including nominations for election as director, and provide that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or by a majority of the entire board of directors. We have in the past adopted a stockholder rights plan, which was voluntarily terminated by the board of directors in April 2014, and may in the future adopt new stockholder rights plans. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, unless prior to the time that anyone becomes an “interested stockholder” our board of directors approves either the “business combination” or transaction which resulted in a stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the prior three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. These provisions will apply even if the change may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders, and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. In addition, to the extent that these provisions discourage an acquisition of our Company or other change of control transaction, they could deprive stockholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares of our common stock.. We could become subject to unsolicited takeover proposals, which may be disruptive to our business.. The trading price of our common stock has recently traded at a level that we believe could make us a target for an unsolicited takeover proposal. We have in the past been subject to unsolicited takeover proposals and could become subject to such proposals in the future. Responding to such proposals, exploring the availability of alternative transactions that reflect our full intrinsic value and instituting legal action in connection therewith has in the past created a significant distraction for our management team and required us to expend significant time and resources, and we believe any future unsolicited proposals would cause similar disruptions to our business. Such proposals may disrupt our business by causing uncertainty among current and potential employees, suppliers, and customers, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and strategic initiatives and cause volatility in our stock price. These consequences, alone or in combination, may have a materially adverse effect on our business. Although, we have entered into a change of control/severance plan with certain of our officers and members of our management team, the change of control arrangements may not be adequate to allow us to retain critical employees during a time when a change of control is being proposed or is imminent.. Our indebtedness and capital and operating lease obligations could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our industry or business.. Our level of indebtedness and lease obligations has fluctuated in recent periods. As a result of our current level of debt, capital leases, operating leases, and encumbered assets, we believe:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour vulnerability to adverse economic conditions and competitive pressures is heightened;. 14. Table of Contents. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe will continue to be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to lease and interest payments and repayment of debt, limiting the availability of cash for other purposes;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry will be limited;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour results of operations and cash flows are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates because some of our debt obligations are subject to variable interest rates, and future borrowings and lease financing arrangements will be affected by any such fluctuations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other purposes may be limited;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to some of our competitors that have less, or less restrictive, debt than us; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be required to issue additional equity securities to raise funds, which would dilute the ownership position of our stockholders.. Our financing obligations could negatively impact our future operations, our ability to satisfy our capital needs, or our ability to engage in other business activities. We also cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us when required or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us.. In the future, we may need to obtain additional financing that may not be available or, if it is available, may result in a reduction in the percentage ownership of our then-existing stockholders.. We may need to raise additional funds in order to:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfinance unanticipated working capital requirements, capital investments or refinance existing indebtedness;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelop or enhance our technological infrastructure and our existing services;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfund strategic relationships;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trespond to competitive pressures; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacquire complementary businesses or services.. If the economy and/or the credit markets weaken, or we are unable to enter into capital or operating leases to acquire revenue equipment on terms favorable to us, our business, financial results and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, especially if consumer confidence declines and domestic spending decreases.  If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our strategic initiatives, take advantage of new opportunities, develop or enhance technology or services or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited.  If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership of our then-existing stockholders may be diluted, and holders of these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our then-existing stockholders.. Our revolving credit agreement and other financing arrangements contain certain covenants, restrictions, and requirements that we may be unable to comply with. A default could result in the acceleration of all or part of any outstanding indebtedness, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and the market price of our common stock.. In February 2015, we entered into a new senior secured revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Facility”) with a group of lenders and Bank of America, N.A., as agent. The Credit Facility is a five-year facility scheduled to terminate on February 5, 2020. We also have other financing arrangements.. 15. Table of Contents. The Credit Facility contains a single springing financial covenant, which requires us to maintain a consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.0 to 1.0. The financial covenant springs only in the event excess availability under the Credit Facility drops below 10%, or $17.0 million, of the lenders’ total commitments under the Credit Facility. In the event our excess availability under the Credit Facility drops below $34.0 million, or 20% of the lenders' total commitments under the Credit Facility, we may be subject to certain additional restrictions, such as restricting our ability to pay dividends, make certain investments, prepay certain indebtedness, execute share repurchase programs, and enter into certain acquisitions and hedging arrangements. The fixed charge ratio is affected by our level of earnings and is adversely affected by operating losses and other charges such as severance costs and impairment charges.  In recent years, we have incurred operating losses, severance and restructuring costs and impairment charges relating to, among others, a decline in the appraised value of our Company-owned revenue equipment fleet.  Future operating losses, severance and restructuring actions and further declines in the appraised value of our Company-owned revenue equipment fleet would adversely affect our fixed charge ratio and could impair our ability to make further borrowings under our Credit Facility.. The Credit Facility contains certain restrictions and covenants related to, among other things, dividends, liens, acquisitions and dispositions, affiliate transactions, and the incurrence of other indebtedness. The Credit Facility is secured by a pledge of substantially all of our assets, with the exclusion of any real estate or revenue equipment financed outside the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility includes usual and customary events of default for a facility of this nature and provides that, upon the occurrence and continuation of an event of default, payment of all amounts payable under the Credit Facility may be accelerated, and the lenders’ commitments may be terminated.. If we fail to comply with any of our financing arrangement covenants, restrictions, or requirements, we would be in default under the relevant agreement. In the event of any such default, if we failed to obtain replacement financing or amendments to, or waivers under, the applicable financing arrangements, existing lenders could cease to make further advances, declare existing debt to be immediately due and payable, fail to renew letters of credit, impose significant restrictions and requirements on our operations, institute foreclosure proceedings against collateralized assets, or impose significant fees. If acceleration occurs, it may be difficult or expensive to refinance the accelerated debt and the issuance of additional equity securities could dilute stock ownership. Even if new financing can be procured, more stringent borrowing terms could mean that credit is not available to us on acceptable terms. A default under these financing arrangements could cause a materially adverse effect on the liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, match our capital investments with customer demand, or obtain financing on favorable terms.. The truckload industry is capital intensive, and our policy of operating newer equipment requires us to expend significant amounts annually. We expect to pay for projected capital expenditures with funds provided by operations, borrowings under the Credit Facility, proceeds from the sale of used revenue equipment, and capital and operating leases. We base our equipment purchase and replacement decisions on a number of factors, including the state of the economic environment, new equipment prices, the used equipment market, the attractiveness of lease terms, demand for freight services, prevailing interest rates, technological improvements, regulatory changes, cost per mile, fuel efficiency, equipment durability, equipment specifications, and driver comfort. Further, if anticipated demand for our services differs materially from actual results, we may have too many or too few equipment assets. Moreover, resource requirements vary based on customer demand, which may be subject to seasonal or general economic conditions. During periods of decreased customer demand, our asset utilization may suffer, and we may be forced to sell equipment on the open market or turn in equipment under certain equipment leases in order to right size our fleet. This could cause us to incur losses on such sales or require payments in connection with the return of such equipment, particularly during times of a softer used equipment market, either of which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain borrowing on favorable terms, we may be forced to further limit our growth, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or operate revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. Upgrading our tractors to reduce the average age of our fleet may not increase our profitability or result in cost savings as expected or at all.. Upgrades of our tractor fleet may not result in an increase in profitability or cost savings.  Expected improvements in operating ratio may lag behind new tractor deliveries, primarily because in executing a tractor fleet upgrade, we may experience costs associated with preparing our old tractors for trade, and our new tractors for integration into our fleet, and lost driving time while swapping revenue equipment. Further, tractor prices have increased and may continue to increase, due in part to government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines.. 16. Table of Contents. In addition, we cannot be certain that an agreement will be reached on price, equipment trade-ins, or other terms that we deem favorable.  If we do enter an agreement for the purchase of new tractors, we could be exposed to the risk that the new tractor deliveries will be delayed. Accordingly, we are subject to an increased risk that upgrades of our tractor fleet will not result in the operational results, cost savings and increases in profitability that we expect.. We self-insure for a portion of our claims exposure, which could significantly increase the volatility of, and decrease the amount of, our earnings.. Our business results in a number of claims and litigation related to personal injuries, property damage and workers’ compensation.  We self-insure a portion of our claims exposure, which could increase the volatility of, and decrease the amount of, our earnings, and could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future insurance and claims expenses may exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We currently accrue amounts for liabilities based on our assessment of claims that arise and our insurance coverage for the periods in which the claims arise and we evaluate and revise these accruals from time-to-time based on additional information.  Due to our high self-insured amounts, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims and the risk of being required to accrue or pay additional amounts if our estimates are revised or the claims ultimately prove to be more severe than originally assessed. At certain times in the past, we have had to adjust our reserves, and future significant adjustments may occur. Further, our self-insured retention levels could change and result in more volatility than in recent years.. We maintain insurance for most risks above the amounts for which we self-insure with licensed insurance carriers. If any claim were to exceed our coverage, or fall outside the aggregate coverage limit, we would bear the excess or uncovered amount, in addition to our self-insured amount.  Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits. Insurance carriers have recently raised premiums for the trucking industry. Our insurance and claims expense could increase if we have a similar experience at renewal, or we could find it necessary to raise our self-insured retention or decrease our aggregate coverage limits when our policies are renewed or replaced. Additionally, with respect to our insurance carriers, the industry is experiencing a decline in the number of carriers and underwriters that offer excess insurance policies or that are willing to provide insurance for trucking companies, and the necessity to go off-shore for insurance needs has increased. This may materially adversely affect our insurance costs or make insurance in excess of our self-insured retention more difficult to find, as well as increase our collateral requirements for policies that require security. In the event that (i) our insurance expenses increase, (ii) we become unable to find excess coverage in amounts we deem sufficient, (iii) we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, (iv) we experience a claim for which we do not have coverage, or (v) we have to increase our reserves, there could be a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Healthcare legislation and cost inflation also could negatively impact financial results by increasing annual employee healthcare costs going forward. In addition, rising healthcare costs could force us to make changes to our existing benefits program, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain employees.. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel, the volume and terms of diesel fuel purchase commitments, surcharge collection, and hedging activities may increase our costs of operations.. Fuel is one of our largest operating expenses. Diesel fuel prices fluctuate greatly due to factors beyond our control, such as political events, terrorist activities, armed conflicts, commodity futures trading, devaluation of the dollar against other currencies, and hurricanes and other natural or man-made disasters, each of which may lead to an increase in the cost of fuel. Fuel prices also are affected by the rising demand for fuel in developing countries, and could be materially adversely affected by the use of crude oil and oil reserves for purposes other than fuel production and by diminished drilling activity. Such events may lead not only to increases in fuel prices, but also to fuel shortages and disruptions in the fuel supply chain. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant diesel fuel cost increases, shortages, or supply disruptions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. Fuel also is subject to regional pricing differences and is often more expensive in certain areas where we operate. Increases in fuel costs, to the extent not offset by rate per mile increases or fuel surcharges, have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. While we have fuel surcharge programs in place with a majority of our customers, which historically have helped us offset the majority of the negative impact of rising fuel prices associated with loaded or billed miles, we also incur fuel costs that cannot be recovered, such as those associated with non-revenue generating miles or time when our engines are idling. Moreover, the terms of each customer’s fuel surcharge program vary, and certain customers have sought to modify the terms of their fuel surcharge programs to lower our recoverability for fuel price increases.  In addition, because our fuel surcharge recovery lags behind changes in fuel prices, our fuel surcharge recovery may not capture the increased costs we pay for fuel, especially when prices are rising. This could lead to fluctuations in our levels of reimbursement, which have occurred in the past. There can be no assurance that such fuel surcharges can be maintained indefinitely or will be sufficiently effective.. From time to time, we have used hedging contracts and volume purchase arrangements to attempt to limit the effect of price fluctuations. Hedging arrangements effectively allow us to pay a fixed rate for fuel on gallons hedged that is determined based on the market rate at the time we enter into the hedge. In times of falling diesel fuel prices, our costs will not be reduced to the same extent they would have reduced if we had not entered into the hedging contracts and we may incur significant expense in connection with our obligation to make cash payments under such contracts. Accordingly, in times of falling diesel fuel prices, our results of operations and cash flows could also be materially adversely affected.. Volatility in the used equipment market could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations.. A decreased demand for used revenue equipment could adversely affect our operating results. As we continually replace our equipment, we rely on the used equipment market to extract remaining value out of our used equipment.  The market for used equipment is impacted by several factors, including the demand for freight, the supply of used equipment, the availability of financing, the presence of buyers for export to foreign countries, and, to a lesser extent, commodity prices for scrap metal. A depressed market for used equipment could require us to dispose of our revenue equipment at depressed values or to record losses on disposal or impairments of the carrying values of our revenue equipment that is not protected by residual value arrangements. If there is a deterioration of resale prices, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A deterioration of demand for used equipment could make it more difficult to dispose of and replace older equipment and may reduce our ability to refresh our fleet, both of which could negatively impact our results of operations.. Increased prices for new revenue equipment, design changes of new engines, decreased availability of new revenue equipment, and the failure of manufacturers to meet their sale or trade-back obligations to us could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.. We are subject to risk with respect to higher prices for new tractors.  We have experienced an increase in prices for new tractors over the past few years, and the resale value of the tractors has not increased to the same extent.  Prices have increased and may continue to increase, due, in part, to government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines, higher commodity prices, and the pricing power of equipment manufacturers.  In addition, we have recently equipped our tractors with safety, aerodynamic, and other options that increase the price of new equipment. More restrictive EPA and state emissions standards have required vendors to introduce new engines.  These regulations have increased the cost of our new tractors and could impair equipment productivity, result in lower fuel mileage, and increase our operating expenses. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors and trailers for these or other reasons. As a result, we expect to continue to pay increased prices for equipment and incur additional expenses and related financing costs for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, reduced equipment efficiency and lower fuel mileage may result from new engines designed to reduce emissions, thereby increasing our operating expenses.. Tractor and trailer vendors may reduce their manufacturing output in response to lower demand for their products in economic downturns or shortages of component parts.  A decrease in vendor output may have a materially adverse effect on our ability to purchase a quantity of new revenue equipment that is sufficient to sustain our desired growth rate and to maintain a late-model fleet.  Moreover, an inability to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors or trailers could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. We have a recent history of net losses and may be unsuccessful in maintaining and improving profitability.. We have reported a net loss in two of the last five years. We reported a profit in 2017 due to an approximately $12.0 million reduction of income tax expense arising from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, and our operations still need to show improvement to achieve consistent profitability. Maintaining and improving profitability depends upon numerous factors, including the ability to increase average base revenue per tractor, increase utilization, improve driver retention, and control operating expenses. We may not be able to maintain or improve profitability in the future, which could negatively impact our liquidity and financial position.. We may not be successful in implementing our realigned management team’s operating procedures, and cost savings initiatives.. We have implemented changes to our management team and structure, as well as operating procedures. These changes may not be successful or may not achieve the desired results. Additional training or different personnel may be required, which may result in additional expense, delays in obtaining results, or disruptions to operations. Some of these implemented changes include customer service and driver management changes and cost savings initiatives. These changes and initiatives may not improve our results of operations, including asset productivity, tractor utilization, driver retention and base revenue per tractor. In addition, we may not be successful in achieving the expected savings in our cost structure, including the areas of equipment maintenance, equipment operating costs, insurance and claims and fuel economy. In such event, our revenue, financial results, and ability to operate profitably could be negatively impacted. Further, our operating results could be negatively affected by a failure to further penetrate our existing customer base, cross-sell our services, pursue new customer opportunities, and manage the operations and expenses of our USAT Logistics segment. There is no assurance we will achieve our goals. If we are unsuccessful, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Management and key employee turnover or failure to attract and retain qualified management and other key personnel, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We depend on the leadership and expertise of our executive management team and other key personnel to design and execute our strategic and operating plans, including our current efforts to improve the profitability of our Trucking segment and grow our USAT Logistics segment. Our management team has experienced significant changes in recent years and may continue to experience change. While we have employment agreements in place with certain members of our management team, there can be no assurance we will continue to retain their services and we may become subject to significant severance payments if our relationship with such members is terminated under certain circumstances. Further, turnover, planned or otherwise, in key leadership positions could adversely impact our ability to manage our business efficiently and effectively, and such turnover can be disruptive and distracting to management, may lead to additional departures of existing personnel, and could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. We must recruit, develop and retain a core group of leaders to realize our goal of expanding our operations, improving our earnings consistency, and positioning ourselves for long-term operating revenue growth.. Increases in driver compensation or difficulties attracting and retaining qualified drivers could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability and the ability to maintain or grow our fleet.. Like many truckload carriers, we experience substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers, which includes the engagement of independent contractors. The truckload industry is subject to a shortage of qualified drivers. Such shortage is exacerbated during periods of economic expansion, in which alternative employment opportunities are more plentiful and freight demand increases, or during periods of economic downturns, in which unemployment benefits might be extended and financing is limited for independent contractors who seek to purchase equipment or for students who seek financial aid for driving school. Regulatory requirements, including those related to safety ratings, ELDs and hours of service (“HOS”) changes, and an improved economy could further reduce the number of eligible drivers or force us to increase driver compensation to attract and retain drivers. We have seen evidence that stricter HOS regulations adopted by the DOT in the past have tightened and, to the extent new regulations are enacted, may continue to tighten, the market for eligible drivers. We believe the required implementation of ELDs in December 2017 has, and enforcement of related rules in April 2018 may further, tighten such market.  We believe the shortage of qualified drivers and intense competition for drivers from other trucking companies will create difficulties in maintaining or increasing the number of our drivers and may restrain our ability to engage a sufficient number of drivers and independent contractors, and our inability to do so could negatively impact our operations. Further, the compensation we offer our drivers and independent contractor expenses are subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to increase driver compensation and/or become subject to higher independent contractor expenses in future periods.. 19. Table of Contents. In addition, we and many other truckload carriers suffer from a high turnover rate of drivers and independent contractors. This high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers and independent contractors and to focus on alternative recruitment methods in order to operate existing revenue equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of drivers and independent contractors, we could be forced to, among other things, adjust our compensation packages, operate with fewer tractors, or increase the number of tractors without drivers and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our engagement of independent contractors to provide a portion of our capacity exposes us to different risks than we face with our tractors driven by company drivers.. Pursuant to our fuel surcharge program with independent contractors, we pay independent contractors a fuel surcharge that increases with the increase in fuel prices. A significant increase or rapid fluctuation in fuel prices could cause our costs under this program to be higher than the revenue we receive under our customer fuel surcharge programs.. Our independent contractor agreements are governed by the federal leasing regulations, which impose specific requirements on us and the independent contractors. If more stringent federal leasing regulations are adopted, independent contractors could be deterred from becoming independent contractor drivers, which could materially adversely affect our goal of growing our number of independent contractors.. Independent contractors are third-party service providers, as compared with company drivers, who are our employees. As independent business owners, they may make business or personal decisions that may conflict with our best interests. For example, if a load is unprofitable, route distance is too far from home, personal scheduling conflicts arise, or for other reasons, independent contractors may deny loads of freight from time to time.  Additionally, independent contractors may be unable to obtain or retain equipment financing, which could affect their ability to continue to act as a third-party service provider for the Company. In these circumstances, we must be able to deliver the freight timely in order to maintain relationships with customers, and if we fail to meet certain customer needs or incur increased expenses to do so, this could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. If the independent contractors we contract with are deemed by regulators or judicial process to be employees, there could be a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. Tax and regulatory authorities, as well as independent contractors themselves, have increasingly asserted that independent contractor drivers in the trucking industry are employees, rather than independent contractors, for a variety of purposes, including income tax withholding, workers’ compensation, wage and hour compensation, unemployment, and other issues.  Federal legislation has been introduced in the past that would make it easier for tax and other authorities to reclassify independent contractors as employees, including legislation to increase the recordkeeping requirements for those that engage independent contractor drivers and to increase the penalties for companies who misclassify their employees and are found to have violated employees’ overtime and/or wage requirements.  Additionally, federal legislators have sought to (i) abolish the current safe harbor allowing taxpayers meeting certain criteria to treat individuals as independent contractors if they are following a long-standing, recognized practice, (ii) extend the Fair Labor Standards Act to independent contractors, and (iii) impose notice requirements based on employment or independent contractor status and fines for failure to comply.  Some states have put initiatives in place to increase their revenue from items such as unemployment, workers’ compensation, and income taxes, and a reclassification of independent contractors as employees would help states with these initiatives.  Further, class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against certain members of our industry seeking to reclassify independent contractors as employees for a variety of purposes, including workers' compensation and healthcare coverage. In addition, companies that use lease-purchase independent contractor programs, such as us, have been more susceptible to reclassification lawsuits and several recent decisions have been made in favor of those seeking to classify independent contractor truck drivers as employees. Taxing and other regulatory authorities and courts apply a variety of standards in their determination of independent contractor status.  If independent contractors we contract with or have contracted with are determined to be employees, we would incur additional exposure under federal and state tax, workers’ compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment, and tort laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for employee benefits and tax withholdings.. 20. Table of Contents. Developments in labor and employment law and any unionizing efforts by employees could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. We face the risk that Congress, federal agencies, or one or more states could approve legislation or regulations significantly affecting our businesses and our relationship with our employees, such as the previously proposed federal legislation referred to as the Employee Free Choice Act, which would have substantially liberalized the procedures for union organization. None of our domestic employees are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement, but any attempt by our employees to organize a labor union could result in increased legal and other associated costs. Additionally, given the National Labor Relations Board’s “speedy election” rule, our ability to timely and effectively address any unionizing efforts would be difficult.  If we entered into a collective bargaining agreement with our domestic employees, the terms could materially adversely affect our costs, efficiency, and ability to generate acceptable returns on the affected operations.. Additionally, the Department of Labor issued a final rule in 2016 raising the minimum salary basis for executive, administrative and professional exemptions from overtime payment.  The rule increases the minimum salary from the current amount of $23,660 to $47,476 and up to 10% of non-discretionary bonus, commission and other incentive payments can be counted towards the minimum salary requirement. The rule was scheduled to go into effect on December 1, 2016. However, the rule was temporarily enjoined from going into effect in November 2016, and later invalidated in August 2017, after several states and business groups filed separate lawsuits against the Department of Labor challenging the rule. An appeal to this ruling appears unlikely. However, any future rule similar to this rule that impacts the way we classify certain positions, increases our payment of overtime wages or increases the salaries we pay to currently exempt employees to maintain their exempt status, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The growth of our asset-light service offering poses unique risks.. We are continuing to implement our plan to increase the proportion of our revenue obtained from our “asset-light operations,” which primarily represents our USAT Logistics segment and the independent contractors we engage. Our goal is that our asset-light operations will result in higher margins, lower capital commitments, and less risk during times of weakened economic conditions. Execution of this plan involves the risk of customer loss or deterioration if either our Trucking and USAT Logistics operations creates a customer issue that impacts the other where we have customer overlap, decreased utilization of Company equipment if loads with desirable profitability and lanes are allocated to third parties, growth impediments given our need to rely on third party providers and an independent contractor market that is contracting and subject to litigation and regulatory risks, and competitive pressures from other asset-light companies with greater financial, personnel, and technological resources.  If we are unsuccessful in achieving this, it may have a materially adverse effect on our future results of operations.. Our USAT Logistics segment and our engagement of independent contractors are dependent upon the services of third-party capacity providers, including other truckload carriers. For these operations, we do not own or control the transportation assets that deliver our customers’ freight, and do not employ the people directly involved in delivering the freight. These third-party providers may seek other freight opportunities or may require increased compensation in times of improved freight demand or tight trucking capacity. Our inability to secure the services of these third parties could significantly limit our ability to serve our customers on competitive terms. Additionally, if we are unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers or provide services on competitive terms, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services is affected by many risks beyond our control, including equipment shortages in the transportation industry, particularly among contracted truckload carriers, interruptions in service due to labor disputes, changes in regulations impacting transportation, and changes in transportation rates. Further, we believe that the recently effective ELD mandate may cause a decrease in third party transportation capacity and make securing such capacity more difficult and/or expensive.. 21. Table of Contents. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. We generate a significant portion of our operating revenue from our major customers.  A substantial portion of our freight is from customers in the retail industry. As such, our volumes are largely dependent on consumer spending and retail sales, and our results may be more susceptible to trends in unemployment and retail sales than carriers that do not have this concentration. In addition, our major customers engage in bid processes and other activities periodically (including currently) in an attempt to lower their costs of transportation. We may not choose to participate in these bids or, if we participate, may not be awarded the freight, either of which circumstances could result in a reduction of our freight volumes with these customers. In this event, we could be required to replace the volumes elsewhere at uncertain rates and volumes, suffer reduced equipment utilization, or reduce the size of our fleet.  Additionally, USAT Logistics is dependent upon a single customer for more than 10% of their operating revenue.  Failure to retain our existing customers, or enter into relationships with new customers, each on acceptable terms, could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to meet our current and long-term financial forecasts.. Economic conditions and capital markets may materially adversely affect our customers and their ability to remain solvent.  Our customers’ financial difficulties can negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to comply with the covenants under our debt agreements, especially if they were to delay or default on payments owed to us. Generally, we do not have contractual relationships that guarantee any minimum volumes with our customers, and we cannot assure you that our customer relationships will continue as presently in effect. Our dedicated service offering is typically subject to longer term written contracts than our over-the-road service offering. However, certain of these contracts contain cancellation clauses, including our “evergreen” contracts, which automatically renew for one-year terms but that can be terminated more easily. There is no assurance any of our customers, including our dedicated customers, will continue to utilize our services, renew our existing contracts, or continue at the same volume levels. Despite the existence of contractual arrangements with our customers, certain of our customers may nonetheless engage in competitive bidding processes that could negatively impact our contractual relationship. In addition, certain of our major customers may increasingly use their own truckload and delivery fleets, which would reduce our freight volumes. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers, including our dedicated customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. We operate in the United States pursuant to operating authority granted by the DOT, in various Canadian provinces pursuant to operating authority granted by the Ministries of Transportation and Communications, and our Mexican business activities are subject to operating authority granted by Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes. Company drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing, driver safety performance, and HOS. Matters such as weight, electronic on-board reporting, equipment dimensions, exhaust emissions, and fuel efficiency are also subject to government regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel efficiency, exhaust emissions, HOS, ergonomics, drug and alcohol testing, electronic on-board reporting of operations, collective bargaining, security at ports, speed limiters, driver training, and other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent, require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs we incur, or higher costs incurred by suppliers who pass the costs on to us, could have a materially adverse effect our results of operations. Changes in regulations, such as those related to trailer size limits, hours-of-service, and mandating ELDs, could increase capacity in the industry or improve the position of certain competitors, either of which could negatively impact pricing and volumes, or require additional investments by us. The short and long term impacts of changes in legislation or regulations are difficult to predict and could materially adversely affect our operations.  The Environmental and Other Regulation sections in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K discusses several proposed, pending, suspended, and final regulations that could materially impact our business and operations and is incorporated by reference herein.. The CSA program adopted by the FMCSA could adversely affect our results of operations, our ability to maintain or grow our fleet, and our customer relationships.. Under the CSA, fleets are evaluated and ranked against their peers based on certain safety-related standards.  As a result, our fleet could be ranked poorly as compared to peer carriers.  We recruit and retain first-time drivers to be part of our driver team, and these drivers may have a higher likelihood of creating adverse safety events under CSA.  The occurrence of future deficiencies could affect driver recruitment by causing high-quality drivers to seek employment with other carriers or limit the pool of drivers we are comfortable hiring or could cause our customers to direct their business away from us and to carriers with higher fleet safety rankings, either of which would adversely affect our results of operations.  Additionally, competition for drivers with favorable safety backgrounds may increase, which could necessitate increases in driver-related compensation costs.  Further, we may incur greater than expected expenses in our attempts to improve unfavorable scores.. 22. Table of Contents. In December 2015, Congress passed the FAST Act, which calls for significant CSA reform. The FAST Act directs the FMCSA to conduct studies of the scoring system used to generate CSA rankings to determine if it is effective in identifying high-risk carriers and predicting future crash risk. This study was conducted and delivered to the FMCSA in June 2017 with several recommendations to make the CSA program more fair, accurate, and reliable. The FMCSA is expected to provide a report to Congress in early 2018 outlining the changes it will make to the CSA program in response to the study. It is unclear if, when, and to what extent any such changes will occur. However, any changes that increase the likelihood of us receiving unfavorable scores could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.. We are compliant with the established intervention thresholds in a number of the seven CSA safety-related categories.  Based on any BASIC that exceed the established threshold, we may be prioritized for an intervention action or roadside inspection, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  In addition, customers may be less likely to assign loads to us.  We have put procedures in place in an attempt to address areas where we exceed thresholds, and have experienced improvement in these measures.  However, we cannot assure you these measures will be effective.. Receipt of an unfavorable DOT safety rating could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. We currently have a satisfactory DOT rating, which is the highest available rating under the current safety rating scale.  If we were to receive a conditional or unsatisfactory DOT safety rating, or similar rating under any future DOT rating system, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations as our customers may require a satisfactory DOT safety rating, and a conditional or unsatisfactory rating could materially adversely affect or restrict our operations. The Other Regulation section in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K discusses several proposed, pending, suspended, and final regulations that could materially impact our business and operations and is incorporated by reference herein.. Compliance with various environmental laws and regulations upon which our operations are subject may increase our costs of operations and non-compliance with such laws and regulations could result in substantial fines or penalties.. In addition to direct regulation under the DOT and related agencies, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the hauling and handling of hazardous materials, fuel storage tanks, fuel spills, air emissions from our vehicles and facilities, and discharge and retention of storm water.  Our truck terminals often are located in industrial areas where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred or could occur. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. One of our Trucking facilities has above-ground bulk fuel storage tanks on the premises. A small percentage of our freight consists of low-grade hazardous substances, which subjects us to a wide array of regulations.  Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, if soil or groundwater contamination is found at our facilities or results from our operations, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to cleanup costs and liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. The Environmental Regulations section in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K discusses several regulations that could materially impact our business and operations and is incorporated by reference herein.. If we cannot effectively manage the challenges associated with doing business internationally, our operating revenue and results of operations may suffer.. A component of our operations is the business we conduct in Mexico, and to a lesser extent Canada, and we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in foreign currencies, changes in the economic strength of Mexico and Canada, difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights, burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and United States export and import laws, and social, political, and economic instability. We must also comply with applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. We cannot guarantee compliance with all applicable laws, and violations could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil or criminal penalties, competitive or reputational harm, litigation, or regulatory action and other consequences that might adversely affect our results of operations and our consolidated performance. Restrictive trade policies and imposition of duties, taxes, or government royalties by foreign governments are additional risks associated with our foreign operations. Although these additional risks have been largely mitigated by the terms of NAFTA, President Trump has indicated that his administration may renegotiate the terms of NAFTA. Although it is unknown what changes might be made to NAFTA or other border policies which may be adopted, it is possible there could be more restrictive trade policies and potential increased costs, as well as increased regulatory complexities. Changes to NAFTA may adversely affect our results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, independent contractors, customers, vendors, government agencies, stockholders, and other parties through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions, and other processes. Recently, trucking companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of various federal and state wage and hour laws regarding, among other things, employee meal breaks, rest periods, overtime eligibility, worker misclassification, and failure to pay for all hours worked. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial settlements or damages by the defendants.. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend litigation may also be significant. Not all claims are covered by our insurance, and there can be no assurance that our coverage limits will be adequate to cover all amounts in dispute. To the extent we experience claims that are uninsured, exceed our coverage limits, involve significant aggregate use of our self-insured retention amounts, or cause increases in future premiums, the resulting expenses could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.. We depend on the proper functioning, availability, and security of our information and communication systems (and the data contained therein), and a systems failure or unavailability, including those caused by cybersecurity breaches, could cause a significant disruption to and adversely affect our business.. We depend heavily on the proper functioning, availability, and security of our information and communication systems, including financial reporting and operating systems, in operating our business.  These systems are protected through physical and software safeguards, but are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, terrorist attacks, internet failures, computer viruses, and similar events beyond our control.  If the information or communication systems fail, otherwise become unavailable, or experience a cybersecurity breach or threat, manually performing functions could temporarily impact our ability to manage our fleet efficiently, to respond to customers’ requests effectively, to maintain billing and other records reliably, to bill for services accurately or in a timely manner, to communicate internally and with drivers, customers, and vendors, and to prepare financial statements accurately or in a timely manner. Business interruption insurance may be inadequate to protect us in the event of a catastrophe. Any system failure, upgrade complication, cybersecurity breach, or other system disruption could interrupt or delay operations, damage our reputation, impact our ability to manage our operations and report financial performance, and cause the loss of customers, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on existing and future business.. Our production systems are supported utilizing a hybrid hosting model that includes virtualized on premise servers and cloud service providers. Production data is replicated to a secondary data center in a separate geographic region, which protects our information in the event of a significant disaster. This redundant data center allows the data related to our systems to be recovered following an incident. However, recovery of such data may not immediately restore our ability to utilize our information systems. In the event such systems are significantly damaged, it could take several days before our systems are returned to full functionality. Our communication services are provided through a mixture of on premise, hosted data center, and cloud services. Recovery time is dependent upon the nature of the event and the affected communication service.. We receive and transmit confidential data with our customers, drivers, vendors, employees, and service providers in the normal course of business. Despite our implementation of secure transmission techniques, internal data security measures, training, and monitoring tools, our information and communication systems are vulnerable to cybersecurity threats and breach attempts from both external and internal sources. Any such breach could result in disruption of communications with our customers, drivers, vendors, employees, and service providers and improper access to, misappropriation of, altering, or deleting information in our systems, including customer, driver, vendor, employee, and service provider information and our proprietary business information. A cybersecurity breach could damage our business operations and reputation and could cause us to incur costs associated with repairing our systems, increased security, customer notifications, lost operating revenue, litigation, regulatory action, fines and penalties and reputational damage.. 24. Table of Contents. Seasonality and the impact of weather and other catastrophic events affect our operations and profitability.. Our tractor productivity decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations, and some shippers reduce their shipments after the winter holiday season. Revenue can also be adversely affected by inclement weather and holidays, since revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers. At the same time, operating expenses increase and fuel efficiency declines because of engine idling and harsh weather creating higher accident frequency, increased claims, and more equipment repairs. We may also suffer from weather-related or other unforeseen events such as tornadoes, hurricanes, blizzards, ice storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, and explosions. These events may disrupt fuel supplies, increase fuel costs, disrupt freight shipments or routes, affect regional economies, damage or destroy our assets, or adversely affect the business or financial condition of our customers, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations or make our results of operations more volatile.. We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will not negatively impact our stock price or financial condition.. Our board of directors has approved a share repurchase program under which we may purchase up to two million shares of our common stock. The specific timing, manner, price, amount and other terms of the repurchases will be at management’s discretion and will depend on market conditions, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other factors. There can be no assurance that repurchases will be made at the best possible price. We are not required to repurchase shares under the repurchase program, and we may modify, suspend, or terminate the repurchase program at any time for any reason. While we did not purchase any shares between September 2016 and the date of this Form 10-K, we cannot predict the impact that future repurchases, if any, of our common stock under this program will have on our stock price or earnings or loss per share. When we are operating at net loss, share repurchases increase the amount of loss per share. Important factors that could cause us to discontinue or decrease our share repurchases include, among others, unfavorable market conditions, the market price of our common stock, the nature of other investment or strategic opportunities presented to us from time to time, the rate of dilution of our equity compensation programs, the availability of funds necessary to continue purchasing stock, and provisions in our credit facility that restrict repurchases based upon availability. In addition, in prior years we have incurred indebtedness in connection with repurchases, which has reduced availability on our Credit Facility, reduced our net worth, and increased our debt-to-capitalization ratio and increased our debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio. Accordingly, our share repurchase program could adversely affect our earnings, cash flows, liquidity, and ability to refinance our Credit Facility, any of which could negatively impact our stock price or financial condition.. Uncertainty relating to piece rate legislation could result in litigation or have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. The trucking industry has been confronted with a continuous patchwork of laws at the state and local levels, related to employee rest and meal breaks. Further, driver piece rate compensation, which is an industry standard, has been attacked as not being compliant with state minimum wage laws. Both of these issues are adversely impacting the Company and motor carrier industry as a whole, with respect to the practical application of the laws; thereby resulting in additional cost. In May 2015, the Supreme Court of the United States refused to grant certiorari to Appellees in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit case, Dilts, et al. v. Penske Logistics, LLC, et al. Consequently, the Appeals Court decision stands, holding that California state wage and hour laws are not preempted by federal law. Existing state and local laws, as well as new laws adopted in the future, which are not preempted by federal law, may result in increased labor costs, driver turnover, reduced operational efficiencies and amplified legal exposure.. 25. Table of Contents. The transportation industry is subject to security requirements that could increase our costs of operation.. Because transportation assets continue to be a target of terrorist activities, federal, state and municipal governments are adopting or are considering adopting stricter security requirements that will increase operating costs and potentially slow service for businesses, including those in the transportation industry. For example, in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, federal, state and municipal authorities implemented and continue to implement various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. In addition, the TSA has adopted regulations that require determination by the TSA that each driver who applies for or renews his license for carrying hazardous materials is not a security threat. These regulations could reduce the pool of qualified drivers, which could require us to increase driver compensation, limit fleet growth, or allow trucks to sit idle. These regulations also could complicate the successful pairing of available equipment with hazardous material shipments, thereby increasing the Company’s response time and deadhead miles on customer shipments. These requirements are not static, but change periodically as the result of regulatory and legislative requirements, imposing additional security costs and creating a level of uncertainty for our operations. Thus, it is possible that these rules or other future security requirements could impose material costs on us or slow our service to our customers. Moreover, a terrorist attack directed at the Company or other aspects of the transportation infrastructure could disrupt our operations and adversely impact demand for our services.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.  The new law requires complex computations not previously required by U.S. tax law.  As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain.  Further, compliance with the new law and the accounting for such provisions require preparation and analysis of information not previously required or regularly produced.  In addition, the U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in future periods.  Accordingly, while we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the new law in our accompanying audited financial statements, further regulatory or GAAP accounting guidance for the law, our further analysis on the application of the law, and refinement of our initial estimates and calculations could materially change our current provisional estimates, which could in turn materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.  There are also likely to be significant future impacts that these tax reforms will have on our future financial results and our business strategies.  In addition, there is a risk that states or foreign jurisdictions may amend their tax laws in response to these tax reforms, which could have a material impact on our future results."                                                                      
