[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. We are subject to and encounter various substantial risks and events that adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and the price of our common stock.. You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the information presented elsewhere in this report, particularly under the heading \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,\" on page 1 of this report, and in the sections Part I, Item 1. Business, Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as in the filings we make from time to time with the SEC, in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. The fact that some of these risk factors may be the same or similar to those that we have included in other reports that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in past periods means only that the risks are present in multiple periods. We believe that many of the risks that are described here are part of doing business in the industry in which we operate and will likely be present in all periods. The fact that certain risks are endemic to the industry does not lessen their significance.. The risks discussed below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely affect our business.. As a direct selling company, we sell our products to a network of active Customers. If we are unable to attract and retain active Customers, our business may be harmed.    Our consumer base includes (i) non-employee, independent Associates who personally consume and sell our products, and (ii) Preferred Customers who simply consume, but do not resell our products. We rely largely on the former to market and sell our products and to generate active Customer growth. Our ability to maintain and increase sales in the future will depend in large part upon our success in increasing the number of active Customers in each of our markets around the world. Our success will also depend on our ability to retain and motivate our existing Associates and attract new Associates. Associates typically market and sell our products on a part-time basis and often engage in other business activities, some of which may compete with us. We rely primarily upon our Associates to (i) attract, train and motivate new Associates, and (ii) attract and sell to Preferred Customers. Our ability to continue to attract and retain active Customers can be affected by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. <U+0095> General business and economic conditions;    <U+0095> Adverse publicity or negative misinformation about our industry, us or our products;    <U+0095> Negative public perceptions about network marketing programs;    <U+0095> High-visibility investigations or legal proceedings against network marketing companies by federal or state authorities or private citizens;     <U+0095> Public perceptions about the value and efficacy of nutritional or dietary supplement, products generally;     <U+0095> Other competing network marketing organizations entering into the marketplace that may sell to our active Customers, or potential active Customers; and    <U+0095> Changes to the Compensation Plan required by law or implemented for business reasons that make attracting and retaining Associates more difficult.. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in increasing or retaining our number of active Customers or that their productivity will increase.    Our Associates may terminate their services at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience a high turnover among new Associates from year to year. Similarly, Preferred Customers may stop buying from us at anytime and it is challenging for organizations like ours to determine why a customer stops buying. While our total. 27. Table of Contents. number of active Customers has continued to increase during recent years, a few of our markets, including the United States, have experienced customer declines. If our strategies and initiatives do not drive growth in our active Customer base, particularly in the United States, China and other markets, our operating results could be harmed. We cannot accurately predict any fluctuation in the number and productivity of Associates because we primarily rely upon existing Associates to train new Associates and to motivate new and existing Associates. Our operating results in other markets could also be adversely affected if we do not generate sufficient interest in our business to successfully retain existing Associates and attract new Associates.. The loss of a significant USANA Associate or Associate sales organization could adversely affect our business.    We rely on the successful efforts of our Associates that become leaders within our Compensation Plan. Our Compensation Plan is designed to permit Associates to sponsor new Associates and Preferred Customers, thereby creating sales organizations. As a result, Associates develop business and personal relationships with other Associates and Preferred Customers. The loss of a key Associate or group of Associates, large turnover or decreases in the size of the key Associate force, seasonal or other decreases in product purchases, sales volume reduction, the costs associated with training new Associates, and other related expenses may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The violation of marketing or advertising laws by Associates in connection with the sale of our products or the improper promotion of our Compensation Plan could adversely affect our business.    All Associates sign a written contract and agree to adhere to our policies and procedures. Although these policies and procedures prohibit Associates from making false, misleading and other improper claims regarding products or income potential from the distribution of the products, Associates may, from time to time, without our knowledge and in violation of our policies, create promotional materials or otherwise provide information that does not accurately describe our marketing program. They also may make statements regarding potential earnings, product claims, or other matters in violation of our policies or applicable laws and regulations concerning these matters. These violations may result in legal action against us by regulatory agencies, state attorneys general, or private parties. Legal actions against our Associates or others who are associated with us could lead to increased regulatory scrutiny of our business, including our network marketing system. We take what we believe to be commercially reasonable steps to (i) regularly train our active Associate base, and (ii) monitor the activities of our Associates to guard against misrepresentation and other illegal or unethical conduct by Associates and to assure compliance with the terms of our policies and procedures and Compensation Plan. There can be no assurance, however, that our efforts in this regard will be sufficient to accomplish this objective, particularly in times and regions where we may experience rapid growth. Adverse publicity resulting from such activities could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain Associates and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may have or could incur obligations relating to the activities of our Associates.    Our Associates are subject to taxation, and, in some instances, legislation or governmental agencies impose an obligation on us to collect taxes, such as sales taxes or value added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records of such transactions. In addition, we are subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of being responsible for social security and similar taxes with respect to our Associates. In the event that local laws and regulations or the interpretation of local laws and regulations change to require us to treat our independent Associates as employees, or if our Associates are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather than independent contractors, under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for a variety of obligations that are imposed upon employers relating to their employees, including social security and related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus any related assessments and penalties, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.. 28. Table of Contents. Network marketing is subject to intense government scrutiny, and regulation and changes in the law, or the interpretation and enforcement of the law, might adversely affect our business.    Various laws and regulations in the United States and other countries regulate network marketing, or direct selling. These laws and regulations exist at many levels of government in many different forms, including statutes, rules, regulations, judicial decisions, and administrative orders. Network marketing regulations are inherently fact-based and often do not include \"bright line\" rules. Additionally, we are subject to the risk that the regulations, or a regulator's interpretation and enforcement of the regulations, could change. From time to time, we have received requests to supply information regarding our network marketing plan to regulatory agencies. We have also been required to modify our network marketing plan in the past in certain jurisdictions in order to comply with the interpretation of the regulations by local authorities. Where required by law, we obtain regulatory approval of our network marketing plan, or, where approval is not required or available, the favorable opinion of local counsel as to regulatory compliance. Further, we may simply be prohibited from distributing products through a network-marketing channel in some countries, or we may be forced to alter our Compensation Plan.. In the United States, the FTC has entered into several highly publicized settlements with direct selling companies that required those companies to modify their compensation plans and business models. Those settlements resulted from actions brought by the FTC involving a variety of alleged violations of consumer protection laws, including misleading earnings representations by the companies' independent distributors, as well as the legal validity of the companies' business model and distributor compensation plans. For instance, in July 2016, the FTC entered into a consent decree with a direct selling company following an enforcement action in which the FTC alleged that, among other things, the direct selling company's distributors had made misleading income representations and that the company was utilizing an unfair and deceptive compensation plan. In September 2016, the FTC entered into a consent decree with another direct selling company following an enforcement action in which the FTC alleged, among other things, that the company's distributors were making misleading earnings representations and that the company was utilizing an illegal business model. The consent decree in each of these cases required the respective direct selling company to, among other things, pay a significant fine, revise its U.S. business model and compensation plan to comply with various restrictions on how it can compensate independent distributors and change its marketing practices to avoid misleading income representations.. FTC determinations such as these have created an ambiguity regarding the proper interpretation of the law and regulations applicable to direct selling companies in the U.S. Although a consent decree between the FTC and a specific company does not represent judicial precedent, FTC officials have indicated that the direct selling industry should look to these consent decrees, and the principles contained therein, for guidance. Additionally, following the issuance of these consent decrees, the FTC issued non-binding guidance to the direct selling industry, suggesting it was intending to reinforce the principles contained in the consent decrees and provide other operational guidance to the direct selling industry. We have analyzed the consent decrees and the subsequent guidance issued by the FTC and we are in the process of both (i) refining aspects of our U.S. business model based on the principles contained in the FTC materials, and (ii) conducting additional analysis to determine if further changes to our model may be necessary. While we strive to ensure that our overall business model, and Associate Compensation Plan, are regulatory compliant in each of our markets, we cannot assure you that a regulator, if it were to review our business, would agree with our assessment and would not require us to change one or more aspects of our operations. Any action against us in the future by the FTC or another regulator could materially and adversely affect our operations.. We cannot predict the nature of any future law, regulation, or guidance, nor can we predict what effect additional governmental regulations, judicial decisions, or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, would have on our business. Failure by us, or our Associates, to comply with these laws,. 29. Table of Contents. regulations, or guidance, could have a material adverse effect on our business in a particular market or in general. Finally, the continuation of regulatory challenges, investigations and litigation against other network marketing companies could harm our business and industry if the laws and regulations are interpreted in a way that results in additional restrictions on network marketing companies in general.. Our Greater China region accounts for a significant part of our business and expected growth. Any decline in sales or customers in this region would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.    Our Greater China region consists of China, Hong Kong and Taiwan and is currently our largest and most rapidly growing region. Our international growth strategy has been centered on growing BabyCare's business in China for the last several years. As a result of this strategy, China has been our fastest growing market and is now our largest individual market. If we are not successful in continuing to grow BabyCare's sales and customer base in China, our consolidated growth as a company will be negatively affected and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be harmed. BabyCare must comply with significant operational, financial, and other regulatory requirements to engage in direct selling in China. While we believe that, in light of our successful Asian Associate base, we will be successful in growing BabyCare's business in China, it is difficult to assess the extent to which BabyCare's Chinese business model and Associate compensation plan will be successful or deemed to be compliant with applicable laws and regulations by the Chinese government. Although we are required to conduct our operations in China through BabyCare, we believe that our long-term success in China will depend on our ability to successfully integrate, to the extent possible, our operations with BabyCare's operations. In light of the factors listed above, and the other risks to our business, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in growing sales and customers in China through BabyCare.. Our operations in China are subject to significant government regulation, as well as a variety of legal, political, and economic risks. If the government modifies the direct selling regulations, or interprets and enforces the regulations in a manner that is adverse to our business in China, our consolidated business and results of operations may be materially harmed.    Our operations in China are conducted by BabyCare, a direct selling company that we indirectly acquired several years ago to facilitate our expansion into China. BabyCare operates in China pursuant to direct selling laws and regulations that are uncertain and evolving. These regulations contain a number of financial and operational restrictions for direct selling companies, most notably on pyramid selling and multi-level compensation. multi-level compensation. The laws and regulations are also subject to discretionary interpretation and enforcement by various state, provincial and municipal level officials in China. Regulators in China may change how they interpret and enforce the direct selling regulations, both current interpretations and enforcement thereof or future iterations. Regulators in China may also modify the current regulations. As a result, there can be no assurance that the Chinese government's current or future interpretation and application of existing and new regulations will not negatively impact our business in China, result in regulatory investigations or lead to fines or penalties against us or our Associates.. The Chinese central government also exercises significant control over the Chinese economy, including through controlling capital, controlling foreign exchange and foreign exchange rates, controlling tax regulations, providing preferential treatment to certain industry segments or companies and issuing required licenses to conduct business. Accordingly, any adverse change in the Chinese governmental, economic or other policies could have a material adverse effect on BabyCare's business in China and our consolidated results of operations.. While BabyCare utilizes a business model that has been developed specifically for China in light of applicable China laws and regulations, BabyCare's model has not been formally approved by the Chinese government.    BabyCare's business model has been designed specifically for China based on a variety of factors, including: (i) BabyCare's communications with the Chinese government,. 30. Table of Contents. (ii) BabyCare's interpretation of the direct selling laws and regulations, as well as their understanding of how the government interprets and enforces the regulations, and (iii) BabyCare's understanding of how other multinational direct selling companies operate in China. BabyCare sells products in China through a variety of methods, including (i) online through its website; (ii) at physical branch retail locations in China; (iii) through direct sellers in provinces and municipalities where BabyCare has received a direct sales license; and (iv) through independent distributors who are considered independent business owners under Chinese law. Individuals who join BabyCare must initially join as a China Preferred Customer, or CPC. CPCs are similar to our Preferred Customers in our other markets, but CPCs also have the right in China to refer other CPCs to BabyCare and receive rebates on future product purchases based on the volume of product purchased by CPCs they have referred. A CPC may become a direct seller or independent distributor (collectively referred to as Associates) in China by electing to do so, signing the required agreement, and agreeing to adhere to BabyCare's policies and procedures.. Direct sellers in China are permitted by our policies and the terms of our direct selling licenses to sell away from fixed retail locations in the provinces and municipalities where BabyCare has been granted a direct selling license. Our independent distributors, who are independent business owners under Chinese law, sell BabyCare products and provide various sales, marketing and other support services to BabyCare and its customers in China. Distributors are compensated for these services in China under BabyCare's compensation plan, instead of the typical compensation we pay under our Associate Compensation Plan in markets outside of China. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the compensation available to our independent distributors in China is comparable to that of our Associates in our other markets outside of China. Many of the components of BabyCare's business model are unique to China and are not part of our business model in our markets outside of China. BabyCare has not received formal confirmation from the Chinese government that its business model and operations in China comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those pertaining to direct selling. We cannot be certain that BabyCare's business model or the activities of its employees, direct sellers or independent distributors will be deemed by Chinese regulatory authorities to be compliant with current or future laws and regulations. If BabyCare's model is deemed to be in violation of applicable regulations, as they are now or may in the future be interpreted or enforced, BabyCare could be subject to fines, penalties, suspension of its business in China or, ultimately, have its direct selling license revoked by the Chinese government, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business in China.. Additionally, the direct selling regulations in China prevent persons who are not Chinese nationals from engaging in direct selling in China. Although we have implemented internal policies that are designed to promote our Associates' compliance with these regulations, we cannot guarantee that any of our Associates living outside of China or any of BabyCare's Associates in China have not engaged or will not engage in activities that violate our policies in this market or that violate Chinese law or other applicable laws and regulations and, therefore, might result in regulatory action and adverse publicity, which would harm our business in China.. BabyCare must apply for and receive government approval to expand its business in China and its ability to expand could be negatively impacted if it is unable to obtain such required approvals.    BabyCare has obtained direct selling licenses in certain provinces and municipalities and it must obtain various licenses and approvals from additional municipalities and provinces within China if it is to operate its direct selling business model in China. As of the date of this report, BabyCare has been granted licenses to engage in direct selling in the municipalities or provinces of Beijing, Jiangsu, Shaanxi, and Tianjin. In addition, in 2016, BabyCare received preliminary governmental approval to expand its direct selling business into the following eight additional provinces or municipalities: Liaoning Province, Shandong Province, Shanxi Province, Sichuan Province, Guangdong Province, Dalian City, Qingdao City, and Shenzhen City. The eight preliminary approvals granted to BabyCare in 2016. 31. Table of Contents. require BabyCare to complete certain conditions and reporting requirements before the final direct selling approvals will be issued. BabyCare is in the process of completing these conditions and reporting requirements. Due to the nature of this process, and the discretion maintained by the state and local government officials, there is no guarantee that the Chinese government will ultimately grant BabyCare final approval to conduct direct selling in each of these areas where BabyCare has received a preliminary approval. In the event that the Chinese government does not grant one or more final direct sales approvals to BabyCare in these areas, BabyCare would be required to reapply for the license in the particular area, which would delay BabyCare's ability to expand its business and inhibit BabyCare's growth opportunity.. Going forward, BabyCare will be required to obtain licenses from municipalities and provinces within China where it does not hold a license. If BabyCare is unable to obtain additional direct selling licenses as quickly as we would like, it would have a negative impact our ability to expand and grow our business. The process for obtaining the necessary government approvals to conduct direct selling continues to evolve, is time-consuming and expensive. The process is complex and officials are cautious when granting new approvals for direct selling, making it difficult to predict the timeline for obtaining additional approvals. The Chinese government regularly investigates direct selling companies and may decide to increase its scrutiny of the industry or modify the applicable regulations and process. If the current processes for obtaining approvals are delayed for any reason or are changed or are interpreted differently than currently understood, these events could have a negative impact on BabyCare's growth prospects in China. Ultimately, there can be no assurance that BabyCare will be successful in maintaining its current direct-selling licenses or obtaining additional direct-selling licenses or the required approvals to expand into additional locations in China that are important to its business.. BabyCare's operations in China, and direct selling companies in general, are subject to significant government oversight, scrutiny and monitoring.    Chinese regulators regularly monitor and make inquiries about the business activities of direct sellers in China and have done so with BabyCare. These inquiries can arise in a variety of ways, including from complaints from customers, competitors or the media. These inquiries or complaints may result in the Chinese government investigating the particular complaint or BabyCare's business in general. There have been instances where inquiries or complaints about BabyCare's business have resulted in warnings from the Chinese government as well as the payment of fines by BabyCare. We expect that BabyCare will continue to face the risk of government inquiries, complaints or investigations, and any determination that BabyCare's business, or the activities of its Associates, are not in compliance with applicable regulations could result in additional fines, disruption of business, or the suspension or termination of BabyCare's licenses, including its direct selling licenses, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. There can be no assurance that the Chinese government's interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations will not negatively impact BabyCare's business, result in regulatory investigations or lead to fines or penalties against BabyCare, USANA or our Associates in China.. Risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects, and we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.    Our international operations are presently conducted in various foreign countries, and we expect that the number of countries in which we operate could expand over the next few years. Economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our products and their ability to pay for our products. In addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex U.S. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax. 32. Table of Contents. laws, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and the Bribery Act of 2010 (U.K. Anti-Bribery Act). Recent years have seen an increasing number of investigations and other enforcement activities under these laws. The FCPA prohibits U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The U.K. Anti-Bribery Act prohibits both domestic and international bribery as well as bribery across both public and private sectors. We pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. Further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with these and other anti-bribery laws.. Although we have policies and procedures and a compliance program designed to ensure that we, our employees, associates, distributors, agents and others who work with us in foreign countries comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. If we are found to be liable for violations of these acts (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could incur severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of these acts is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management (see, \"An internal investigation of our China operations is being conducted,\" below).. We believe that our ability to achieve future growth is dependent in part on our ability to continue our international expansion efforts. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to grow in our existing international markets, enter new international markets on a timely basis, or that new markets will be profitable. We must overcome significant regulatory and legal barriers before we can begin marketing in any international market. Also, before marketing commences in a new country or market, it is difficult to assess the extent to which our products and sales techniques will be accepted or successful in any given country. In addition to significant regulatory barriers, we may also encounter problems conducting operations in new markets with different cultures and legal systems from those encountered elsewhere. We may be required to reformulate certain of our products before commencing sales in a given country. Once we have entered a market, we must adhere to the regulatory and legal requirements of that market. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully reformulate our products in any of our current or potential international markets to meet local regulatory requirements or to attract local customers. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain and retain necessary permits and approvals in new markets or that we will have sufficient capital to finance our expansion efforts in a timely manner.. In many market areas, other network marketing companies already have significant market penetration, the effect of which could be to desensitize the local Associate population to a new opportunity, such as USANA, or to make it more difficult for us to attract qualified Associates. Even if we are able to commence operations in new markets, there may not be a sufficient population of persons who are interested in our network marketing system. We believe our future success will depend in part on our ability to seamlessly integrate our Compensation Plan across all markets where legally permissible. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to utilize our Compensation Plan seamlessly in all existing or future markets.. An internal investigation of our China operations is being conducted.    We are voluntarily conducting an internal investigation of our China operations, BabyCare Ltd. The investigation focuses on compliance with the FCPA and certain conduct and policies at BabyCare, including BabyCare's expense reimbursement policies. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has assumed direct. 33. Table of Contents. responsibility for reviewing these matters and has hired experienced counsel to conduct the investigation. While we do not believe that the subject amounts are quantitatively material or will materially affect our financial statements, we cannot currently predict the outcome of the investigation on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have voluntarily contacted the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) to advise both agencies that an internal investigation is underway and we intend to provide additional information to both agencies as the investigation progresses. We cannot predict the duration, scope, or result of the investigation. We could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters. One or more governmental actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of the internal investigation, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, criminal penalties, or other relief. A civil lawsuit has been initiated as a result of these matters and there can be no assurance that other lawsuits will not be initiated against us as a result of these matters. We cannot predict whether the existing lawsuit, or potential future lawsuits, will result in judgments against us and potentially any responsible current and former directors and officers. We expect to continue to incur costs in conducting our on-going review and investigation, in responding to requests for information in connection with any government investigations and in defending any potential civil or governmental proceedings that are instituted against us or any of our current or former officers or directors.. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive government regulation, which could limit or prevent the sale of our products in some markets.    The manufacture, packaging, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous national and local governmental agencies in the United States and other countries, including the FDA and the FTC. For example, failure to comply with FDA regulatory requirements may result in, among other things, injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines, and criminal prosecutions. Any action of this type by the FDA could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully market our products. The manufacture of nutritional or dietary supplements and related products in the United States requires compliance with dietary supplement GMPs, which are based on the food-model GMPs, with additional requirements that are specific to dietary supplements. We believe our manufacturing processes comply with these GMPs for dietary supplements. Nevertheless, any FDA action determining that our processes were non-compliant with dietary supplement GMPs, could materially adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. In addition, the Dietary Supplement & Nonprescription Drug Consumer Protection Act requires manufacturers of dietary supplement and over-the-counter products to notify the FDA when they receive reports of serious adverse events occurring within the United States. Potential FDA responses to any such report could include injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines, or criminal prosecutions. We have an internal adverse event reporting system that has been in place for several years and believe that we are in compliance with this new law. Nevertheless, any action by the FDA in response to a serious adverse event report that may be filed by us could materially and adversely affect our ability to successfully market our products.. In markets outside the United States, prior to commencing operations or marketing our products, we may be required to obtain approvals, licenses, or certifications from a country's ministry of health or a comparable agency. For example, our manufacturing facility has been registered with the FDA and Health Canada and is certified by Australia's TGA. Approvals or licensing may be conditioned on reformulation of products or may be unavailable with respect to certain products or product ingredients. China also extensively regulates the registration, labeling and marketing of our products. Consequently, the registration process for our products in China is complex and generally requires extensive analysis and approval by the CFDA. As a result, it may take several years to register a product in China. We must also comply with product labeling and packaging regulations that vary from country to country. These activities are also subject to regulation by various agencies of the countries in which our products are sold.. 34. Table of Contents. We cannot predict the nature of any future laws, regulations, interpretations, or applications, nor can we determine what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, could have on our business. These potential effects could include, however, requirements for the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products, additional record keeping and reporting requirements, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling, or additional scientific substantiation. Any or all of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our in-house manufacturing activity is subject to certain risks.    We manufacture approximately 67% of the products sold to our customers. As a result, we are dependent upon the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities. Those operations are subject to power failures, the breakdown, failure, or substandard performance of equipment, the improper installation or operation of equipment, natural or other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements or directives of government agencies, including the FDA and CFDA. There can be no assurance that the occurrence of these or any other operational problems at our facilities would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture, use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste, and other toxic and hazardous materials. Our manufacturing operations presently do not result in the generation of material amounts of hazardous or toxic substances. Nevertheless, complying with new or more stringent laws or regulations, or more vigorous enforcement of current or future policies of regulatory agencies, could require substantial expenditures by us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations require us to maintain and comply with a number of permits, authorizations, and approvals and to maintain and update training programs and safety data regarding materials used in our processes. Violations of those requirements could result in financial penalties and other enforcement actions and could require us to halt one or more portions of our operations until a violation is cured. The combined costs of curing incidents of non-compliance, resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by government authorities, or of satisfying new legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our reliance on third parties to manufacture and supply certain of our products and the failure by these third parties to supply these products to us in accordance with our quality standards and specifications, as well as applicable laws and regulations, may harm our financial condition and operating results.    We contract with third-party suppliers and manufacturers for the production of some of our products, which account for approximately 33% of our product sales. These third-party suppliers and manufacturers produce and, in most cases, package these products according to formulations and specifications that have been developed by or in conjunction with our in-house product development team. These products include most of our gelatin-capsulated supplements, Rev3 Energy<U+0099> Drink, Probiotic, our powdered drink mixes, nutrition bars, and certain of our personal care products, including our new Celavive® products. Products manufactured by third-party suppliers at their locations must also pass through quality control and assurance procedures to ensure they are manufactured in conformance with our specifications. We cannot assure you that our outside contract manufacturers will continue to reliably supply products to us at the levels of quality, or the quantities, we require, and in compliance with our specifications or applicable laws, including under the FDA's GMP regulations. We have encountered situations in the past where we have had disagreements with contract manufacturers about the overall quality of products they have produced for us, and specifically whether such products conform to our specifications. We have also suspended and terminated relationships with contract manufacturers for quality issues and non-conforming products. While our business continuation plan contemplates events such as these, identifying and obtaining acceptable replacement manufacturing sources, on a timely basis or at all, is challenging. Additionally, transferring. 35. Table of Contents. our third-party manufacturing business to another contract manufacturer can be expensive, time-consuming, result in delays in our production or shipping, reduce our net sales, damage our relationship with customers and damage our reputation in the marketplace. Any of these events, if they were to occur, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may incur liability with respect to our products.    As a manufacturer and a distributor of products for human consumption and topical application, we could become exposed to product liability claims and litigation. Additionally, the manufacture and sale of these products involves the risk of injury to consumers due to tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination. To date, we have not been a party to any product liability litigation, although, like any dietary supplement company, we have received reports from individuals who have asserted that they suffered adverse consequences as a result of using our products. The number of reports we have received to date is nominal. These matters historically have been settled to our satisfaction and have not resulted in material payments. We are aware of no instance in which any of our products are or have been defective in any way that could give rise to material losses or expenditures related to product liability claims. Although we maintain product liability insurance, which we believe to be adequate for our needs, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to such claims in the future or that our insurance coverage will be adequate.. Fluctuation in the value of currency exchange rates with the U.S. dollar affects our operations and our net sales and earnings.    Over the past several years, a majority of our net sales have been generated outside the United States. Such sales for the year ended December 30, 2017, represented 88.4% of our total net sales. We will likely continue to expand our operations into new markets, exposing us to expanding risks of changes in social, political, and economic conditions, including changes in the laws and policies that govern investment or exchange in these markets. Because a significant portion of our sales are generated outside the United States, exchange rate fluctuations will have a significant effect on our sales and earnings. Further, if exchange rates fluctuate dramatically, it may become uneconomical for us to establish or to continue activities in certain countries. For instance, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the relative prices at which we and our competitors sell similar products in the same market. As our business expands outside the United States, an increasing share of our net sales and operating costs will be transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accounting practices require that our non-U.S. financial results be converted to U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. Consequently, our reported net earnings may be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, with earnings generally increasing with a weaker U.S. dollar and decreasing with a strengthening U.S. dollar. With the exception of BabyCare's business in China, product purchases by our subsidiaries around the world are transacted in U.S. dollars. As our operations expand in countries where transactions may be made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our operating results will be increasingly subject to the risks of exchange rate fluctuations and we may not be able to accurately estimate the impact that these changes might have on our future business, product pricing, results of operations, or financial condition. In addition, the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies may also adversely affect our sales to customers outside the United States. Currently our strategy for reducing our exposure to currency fluctuation includes the timely and efficient repatriation of earnings from international markets where such earnings are not considered to be indefinitely reinvested, and settlement of intercompany transactions. We also enter into currency exchange contracts to offset foreign currency exposure in various international markets. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting our operating results or cash flows from potentially adverse effects of currency exchange fluctuations. Any such adverse effects could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. 36. Table of Contents. Difficult economic conditions may adversely affect our business.    Over the past few years, economic conditions in many of the markets where we sell our products have resulted in challenges to our business. This is particularly true in our Americas and Europe region, where we continue to experience difficulty generating meaningful growth. We cannot predict whether world or market-specific economies will improve or deteriorate in the future. If difficult economic conditions continue or worsen, we could experience declines in net sales, profitability and cash flow due to lower demand for our products or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers, potential customers or suppliers. Additionally, these conditions may result in a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources or otherwise negatively impact our operations or overall financial condition.. Our business is subject to the effects of adverse publicity and negative public perception.    Our ability to attract and retain Associates and to sustain and enhance sales through our Associates can be affected by adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding our industry, our competition, or our business generally. Our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of Internet-based communications. This negative public perception may include publicity regarding the legality of network marketing, the quality or efficacy of nutritional supplement products or ingredients in general or our products or ingredients specifically, and regulatory investigations, regardless of whether those investigations involve us or our Associates or the business practices or products of our competitors or other network marketing companies.. In 2007, we were the victim of false statements made to the press and regulatory agencies, causing us to incur significant expense in defending and dispelling the allegations during 2007 and 2008. In November 2012, we were again the target of false and misleading statements concerning our business practices, particularly in China and Hong Kong. This adverse publicity also had an adverse impact on the market price of our stock and caused insecurity among our Associates. Most recently, in April 2017, we were again the target of an anonymous short-seller blog that contained distortions of fact and misleading information about BabyCare's business in China.. There has been significant media and short-seller attention regarding the viability and legality of network marketing in the United States and internationally over the past few years. This attention has led to intense public scrutiny of the industry, as well as volatility in our stock price and the stock price of companies similar to ours. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to adverse publicity or negative public perception in the future or that such adverse publicity will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our Associate Compensation Plan, or changes we make to it, may be viewed negatively by some Associates, could fail to achieve our desired objectives, and could have a negative impact on our business.    Our line of business is highly competitive and sensitive to the introduction of new competitors, new products and/or new distributor compensation plans. Network marketing companies commonly attempt to attract new distributors by offering generous distributor compensation plans. From time to time, we modify components of our Compensation Plan in an effort to (i) keep it competitive and attractive to existing and potential Associates, (ii) cause or address a change in Associate behavior, (iii) incent Associates to grow our business, (iv) conform to legal and regulatory requirements, and (v) address other business needs. In light of the size and diversity of our Associate force and the complexity of our Compensation Plan, it is difficult to predict how any changes to the plan will be viewed by Associates and whether such changes will achieve their desired results. In 2013, we made several changes to our product pricing structure and Associate Compensation Plan to improve our business, including to increase Associate loyalty and satisfaction and to attract new Associates. There can be no assurance that the foregoing changes, or any future changes, to our Associate. 37. Table of Contents. Compensation Plan will allow us to successfully attract new Associates or retain existing Associates, nor can we assure that any changes we make to our Compensation Plan will achieve our desired results.. Additionally, the payment of Associate incentives under our Compensation Plan is our most significant expense. These incentives include commissions, bonuses, and certain awards and prizes. Adjusting or enhancing our Compensation Plan directly affects the incentives we pay as a percentage of net sales. We may periodically adjust our Compensation Plan to prevent Associate incentives from having a significant adverse effect on our earnings. There can be no assurance that changes to the Compensation Plan or product pricing will be successful in achieving target levels of Associate incentives as a percentage of net sales. Furthermore, such changes may make it difficult to attract and retain qualified and motivated Associates or cause us to lose some of our longer-standing Associates.. Legal action by former Associates or third parties against us could harm our business.    We continually monitor and review our Associates' compliance with our policies and procedures as well the laws and regulations applicable to our business. From time to time, some Associates fail to adhere to our policies and procedures. If this happens, we may take disciplinary action against the particular Associate. This disciplinary action is based on the facts and circumstances of the particular case and may include anything from warnings for minor violations to termination of an Associate's purchase and distribution rights for more serious violations. From time to time, we become involved in litigation with an Associate whose purchase and distribution rights have been terminated. We consider this type of litigation to be routine and incidental to our business. While neither the existence nor the outcome of this type of litigation is typically material to our business, in the past we have been involved in litigation of this nature that resulted in a large cash award against us. Our competitors have also been involved in this type of litigation, and in some cases class actions, where the result has been a large cash award against the competitor or a large cash settlement by the competitor. These types of challenges, awards or settlements could provide incentives for similar actions by other former Associates against us in the future. Any such challenge involving us or others in our industry could harm our business by resulting in fines or damages against us, creating adverse publicity about us or our industry, or hurting our ability to attract and retain customers. We believe that Associate compliance is critical to the integrity of our business, and, therefore, we will continue to be aggressive in ensuring that our Associates comply with our policies and procedures. As such, there can be no assurance that this type of litigation will not occur again in the future or result in an award or settlement that has a materially adverse effect on our business. We could also be subject to challenges by private parties in civil actions. We are aware of recent civil litigation against various direct selling companies in the United States, which have already resulted in settlements and may result in additional significant settlements in the future by these companies. There can be no assurance that we will not be challenged by private parties in litigation.. The inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for products at favorable prices, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.    We acquire all of our raw materials for the manufacture of our products from third-party suppliers. Materials used in manufacturing our products are purchased through purchase order, often invoking pre-negotiated annual supply agreements. We have very few long-term agreements for the supply of these materials. There is a risk that any of our suppliers could discontinue selling raw materials to us. Although we believe that we could establish alternate sources for most of our products, any delay in locating and establishing relationships with other sources could result in product shortages or back orders for products, with a resulting loss of net sales. In certain situations, we may be required to alter our products or to substitute different products from another source. There can be no assurance that suppliers will provide the raw materials that are needed by us in the quantities that we request or at the prices that we are willing to pay. Because we do not control the actual production of certain raw materials, we are also subject to delays caused by any interruption in the production of these materials, based on conditions not within our control, including weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, strikes by supplier employees, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events.. 38. Table of Contents. Shortages of raw materials may temporarily adversely affect our margins or our profitability related to the sale of those products.    In the past, we have experienced temporary shortages of the raw materials used in certain of our nutritional products. Although we had identified multiple sources to supply such raw material ingredients, quantities of the materials we purchased during these shortages were at higher prices, which had a negative impact on our gross margins for those products. While we periodically experience price increases due to unexpected raw material shortages and other unanticipated events, we have been able to manage this by increasing the price at which we sell our products, therefore, this has historically not resulted in a material effect on our overall cost of goods sold. However, there is no assurance that our raw materials will not be significantly adversely affected in the future, causing our profitability to be reduced.. Disruptions to shipping channels that we use to distribute our products to international warehouses may adversely affect our margins and profitability in those markets.    In the past, we have felt the impact of disruptions to the shipping channels used to distribute our products. These disruptions have included increased port congestion, a lack of capacity on the railroads, and a shortage of manpower. For example, we experienced the impact of the West Coast port congestion that started late in 2014 due to worker strikes. In response to this congestion, we increased lead-times for shipments to our international markets, which caused an increase in our inventory levels. We also pursued alternative routes of transportation, which increased our shipping costs. Although the west coast ports are now fully functioning, we cannot assure you that we will not experience port congestion in the future. Congestion to ports can affect previously negotiated contracts with shipping companies, resulting in unexpected increases in shipping costs and reduction in our net sales.. Nutritional supplement products may be supported by only limited availability of conclusive clinical studies.    Our products include nutritional supplements that are made from vitamins, minerals, herbs, and other substances for which there is a long history of human consumption. Some of our products contain innovative ingredients or combinations of ingredients. Although we believe that all of our products are safe when taken as directed, there is little long-term experience with human consumption of certain of these product ingredients or combinations of ingredients in concentrated form. We conduct research and test the formulation and production of our products, but we have performed or sponsored only limited clinical studies. Furthermore, because we are highly dependent on consumers' perception of the efficacy, safety, and quality of our products, as well as similar products distributed by other companies, we could be adversely affected in the event that those products prove or are asserted to be ineffective or harmful to consumers or in the event of adverse publicity associated with any illness or other adverse effects resulting from consumers' use or misuse of our products or similar products of our competitors.. Our business is subject to the risks associated with intense competition from larger, wealthier, and more established competitors.    We face intense competition in the business of distributing and marketing nutritional supplements, vitamins and minerals, personal care products, and other nutritional products, as described in greater detail in \"Business - Competition.\" Numerous manufacturers, distributors, and retailers compete actively for consumers and, in the case of other network marketing companies, for Associates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete in this intensely competitive environment. In addition, nutrition and personal care products can be purchased in a wide variety of channels of distribution, including retail stores. Also, entry is not particularly capital intensive or otherwise subject to high barriers to entry; as a result, new competitors can enter fairly easily and compete with us for customers and our Associates. Our product offerings in each product category are also relatively small, compared to the wide variety of products offered by many of our competitors.. We are also subject to significant competition from other network marketing organizations for the time, attention, and commitment of new and existing Associates. Our ability to remain competitive depends, in significant part, on our success in recruiting and retaining Associates. There can be no. 39. Table of Contents. assurance that our programs for recruiting and retaining Associates will be successful. The pool of individuals who may be interested in network marketing is limited in each market, and it is reduced to the extent other network marketing companies successfully recruit these individuals into their businesses. Although we believe we offer an attractive opportunity for Associates, there can be no assurance that other network marketing companies will not be able to recruit our existing Associates or deplete the pool of potential Associates in a given market. This risk is compounded by the relative ease with which our Associates can exit our network marketing program.. We could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions.    We are subject to tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments as well as various non-U.S. jurisdictions. On December 22, 2017, H.R. 1, commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), was enacted. The Tax Act contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, increased deductions for capital spending and limitations on interest expense deductions. This tax legislation made other changes that could have an unfavorable impact on our overall U.S. federal tax liability in light of our current international operating structure. In particular, the tax legislation included a number of provisions that limit or eliminate various tax deductions, including those related to foreign tax credits and other deferred tax assets that we will not be able to realize under the new tax laws, each of which could affect our U.S. federal income tax position. We are continuing to evaluate the overall impact of this tax legislation on our operations and U.S. federal income tax position. While we expect the Tax Act to be favorable to us over the long run, it may be unfavorable to our short-term financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, there can be no assurance that additional changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the U.S. and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact our customers and counterparties or the economy generally may also impact our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. Any changes in enacted tax laws, rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations; any adverse outcome in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction; or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely impact our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to particular intellectual property risks.    Most of our products are not protected by patents. The labeling regulations governing our nutritional supplements require that the ingredients of such products be precisely and accurately indicated on product containers. Accordingly, patent protection for nutritional supplements often is impractical given the large number of manufacturers who produce nutritional supplements having many active ingredients in common. Additionally, the nutritional supplement industry is characterized by rapid change and frequent reformulations of products, as the body of scientific research and literature refines current understanding of the application and efficacy of certain substances and the interactions among various substances. In this respect, we maintain an active research and development program that is devoted to developing better, purer, and more effective formulations of our products. We protect our investment in research, as well as the techniques we use to improve the purity and effectiveness of our products, by relying on trade secret laws. We have also entered into confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees involved in research and development activities. Additionally, we endeavor to seek, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, trademark and trade dress protection for our products, which protection has been sought in the United States, Canada, and in many of the other countries in which we are either presently operating or plan to commence operations in the future. Notwithstanding our efforts, there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our trade secrets and trademarks will. 40. Table of Contents. be successful. Nor can there be any assurance that third-parties will not assert claims against us for infringement of their intellectual proprietary rights. If an infringement claim is asserted, we may be required to obtain a license of such rights, pay royalties on a retrospective or prospective basis, or terminate our manufacturing and marketing of our infringing products. Litigation with respect to such matters could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results.. A failure of our information technology systems would harm our business.    The global nature of our business and our seamless global compensation plan requires the development and implementation of robust and efficiently functioning information technology systems. Such systems are vulnerable to a variety of potential risks, including damage or interruption resulting from natural disasters and telecommunication failures and human error or intentional acts of sabotage, vandalism, break-ins and similar acts. Although we have adopted and implemented a business continuity and disaster recovery plan, which includes routine back-up, off-site archiving and storage, and certain redundancies, the occurrence of any of these events could result in costly interruptions or failures adversely affecting our business and the results of our operations.. We rely on information technology to support our operations and reporting environments. A security failure of that technology could impact our ability to operate our businesses effectively, adversely affect our reported financial results, impact our reputation and expose us to potential liability or litigation.    In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to a cyber incident, natural disaster, hardware or software corruption, failure or error, telecommunications system failure, service provider error or failure, intentional or unintentional personnel actions, employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. If by any cause our systems or information resources were compromised, or if our data were destroyed, misappropriated or inappropriately disclosed we could suffer significant loss or incur significant liability, including: damage to our reputation; loss of customer confidence or goodwill; and significant expenditures of time and money to address and remediate resulting damages to affected individuals or business partners, or to defend ourselves in resulting litigation or other legal proceedings, by affected individuals, business partners or regulators. Furthermore, such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, revenues and competitive position.. We may incur liability under our \"Athlete Guarantee\" program, if and to the extent participating athletes make a successful claim against USANA for testing positive for certain banned substances while taking USANA nutritional supplements.    We believe that our nutritional supplement products are free from substances that have been banned by world-class training and competitive athletic programs. We retain independent testing agencies to conduct periodic checks for banned substances. We further believe that, while our products promote good health, they are not otherwise considered to be \"performance enhancing\" as that term has been used in defining substances that are banned from use in international competition by the World Anti-Doping Agency (\"WADA\"). For many years, we have been a sponsor of Olympic athletes and professional competitors around the world. These athletes have been tested on many occasions and have never tested positive for banned substances as a result of taking USANA nutritional products. To back up our claim that athletes who use USANA products as part of their training regimen will not be consuming banned substances, we have offered to enter into. 41. Table of Contents. agreements with select athletes, some of whom have high-profiles and are highly compensated, which state that, during the term of the agreement, should the athlete test positive for a banned substance included in the WADA, and should such positive result be the result of taking USANA nutritional products, we will compensate that athlete at an amount equal to two times their current annual earnings up to $1.0 million dollars, based on the athlete's personal level of competition, endorsement, and other income, as well as other factors. To mitigate potential exposure under these agreements, we:. <U+0095> Designate lots identified as dedicated to the Athlete Guarantee program and retain additional samples     <U+0095> Store designated lot samples externally with a third-party; and    <U+0095> Establish a chain of custody that requires signatures on behalf of us and the third-party to transfer possession of the product lots and that restricts access by our employees after the transfer.. All applicants to this Athlete Guarantee program are subject to screening and acceptance by us in our sole discretion. Contracts are tailored to fit the athlete's individual circumstances and the amount of our exposure is limited based on the level of sponsorship of the participating athlete. Although we believe that the pool of current and potential participants in the program is small, there is no guarantee that an athlete who is accepted in the program will not successfully make a claim against us. We currently have no insurance to protect us from potential claims under this program.. The loss of key management personnel could adversely affect our business.    Our executive officers are primarily responsible for our day-to-day operations, and we believe our success depends in part on our ability to retain our executive officers, to compensate our executive officers at attractive levels, and to continue to attract additional qualified individuals to our management team. We depend upon the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Kevin Guest, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Jim Brown, and our Chief Financial Officer, Douglas Hekking, as well as other key members of our executive team. We cannot guarantee continued service by our key executive officers. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers, nor do we have an employment agreement with any of our executive officers. The loss or limitation of the services of any of our executive officers or the inability to attract additional qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively impact our business.    We are required by federal securities laws to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the companies' Annual Reports on Form 10-K. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. Although we review internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we could be required to take costly and time-consuming corrective measures, to remedy any number of deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, be required to restate the affected historical financial statements, be subjected to investigations and/or sanctions by federal and state securities regulators, and be subjected to civil lawsuits by security holders. For instance, as described in our Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting at Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 27, 2017, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016. While the existence of this material weakness did not result in a restatement of. 42. Table of Contents. previously issued interim or annual consolidated financial statements, we incurred substantial costs and utilized meaningful resources to remediate the material weakness during fiscal 2017. Any of the foregoing could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and in our company and would likely result in a decline in the market price of our stock and in our ability to raise additional financing if needed in the future.. The beneficial ownership of a significant percentage of our common stock gives our founder and parties related to or affiliated with him effective control, and limits the influence of other shareholders on important policy and management issues.    Gull Global, Ltd., an entity that is solely owned and controlled by our founder Dr. Myron Wentz, owned approximately 49.00% of our outstanding common stock at December 30, 2017. By virtue of this stock ownership, Dr. Wentz is able to exert significant influence and control over the election of the members of our Board of Directors and our business affairs. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change in control that might otherwise be beneficial to shareholders. In addition, Dr. Wentz currently serves as Chairman of our Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise with respect to these relationships or that conflicts will be resolved in a manner favorable to other shareholders of the Company.. Sales by our shareholders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.    A large number of outstanding shares of our common stock are held by several of our principal shareholders. If any of these principal shareholders were to decide to sell large amounts of stock over a short period of time such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control.    There can be no assurance that an active market in our stock will be sustained. We have a relatively small public float compared to the number of our shares outstanding. Accordingly, we cannot predict the extent to which investors' interest in our common stock will provide an active and liquid trading market. Due to our limited public float, we are vulnerable to investors taking a \"short position\" in our common stock, which is likely to have a depressing effect on the price of our common stock and add increased volatility to our trading market. The price of our common stock also may fluctuate in the future in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, material announcements by us or our competitors, governmental regulatory action, conditions in the nutritional supplement industry, negative publicity, or other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of many dietary and nutritional supplement companies and which have, in certain cases, not had a strong correlation to the operating performance of these companies. Our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If that were to occur, the price of our common stock, and accordingly, the value of a shareholder's investment in our company, would likely decline, perhaps substantially."
