[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating us and our common units. Some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate principally to the business and operations of Valero, tax matters, ownership of our common units, and securities markets generally.. Our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected by these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common units could decline.. Risks Related to Our Business. Valero accounts for all of our revenues. Therefore, we are subject to the business risks associated with Valero's business. Furthermore, if Valero changes its business strategy, is unable for any reason, including financial or other limitations, to satisfy its obligations under our commercial agreements or significantly reduces the volumes transported through our pipelines or terminals, our revenues would decline and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and ability to make distributions to our unitholders would be materially and adversely affected.. Valero accounts for all of our revenues. We expect to continue to derive a substantial amount of our revenues from Valero for the foreseeable future, and as a result, any event, whether in our areas of operation or elsewhere, that materially and adversely affects Valero's business may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the operational and business risks of Valero, the most significant of which include the following:. • disruption of Valero's ability to obtain crude oil;. • interruptions at Valero's refineries and other facilities;. • any decision by Valero to temporarily or permanently curtail or shut down operations at one or more of its refineries or other facilities and reduce or terminate its obligations under our commercial agreements;. • competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage over Valero;. • the ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms, which could also adversely affect the financial strength of business partners;. • the costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations;. • significant losses resulting from the hazards and risks of operations may not be fully covered by insurance, and could adversely affect Valero's operations and financial results;. • large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns;. • interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of Valero's reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined petroleum products;. • potential losses from Valero's derivative transactions; and. 18. Table of Contents. • the effects of changing commodity and refined product prices.. The volumes of crude oil and refined petroleum products that we transport and terminal depend substantially on Valero's refining margins. Refining margins are dependent both upon the price of crude oil or other refinery feedstocks and refined petroleum products. These prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our or Valero's control, including the global supply and demand for crude oil, gasoline and other refined petroleum products, competition from alternative energy sources, and the impact of new and more stringent regulations affecting the energy industry. A material decrease in the refining margins at Valero's refineries supported by our assets could cause Valero to reduce the volumes we transport and terminal for Valero, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We may not have sufficient distributable cash flow following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to maintain or increase our quarterly distributions to our unitholders.. We may not generate sufficient cash flows each quarter to enable us to maintain or increase distributions. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, our throughput volumes, tariff rates and fees, and prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash flows we generate will also depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • the amount of our operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to Valero, which are not subject to any caps or other limits, in respect of those expenses;. • the amount and timing of capital expenditures and acquisitions we make;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities, and restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and other debt agreements;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs; and. • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner.. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms to fund expansions of our asset base, our ability to make quarterly distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. We do not have any commitment with any of our affiliates to provide any direct or indirect financial assistance to us.. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and may be unable to maintain or raise the level of our quarterly distributions. We will be required to use cash from our operations, incur borrowings or access the capital markets in order to fund our expansion capital expenditures. Our ability to incur indebtedness or access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition at such time as well as the covenants in our debt agreements, general economic conditions and contingencies, and uncertainties that are beyond our control. The terms of any such financing could also limit our ability to make distributions to our common unitholders. Incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant common unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate.. 19. Table of Contents. If Valero satisfies only its minimum quarterly throughput commitments under, or if Valero terminates or we are unable to renew or extend, our commercial agreements with Valero, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders will be reduced.. Valero is not obligated to use our services with respect to volumes of crude oil or refined petroleum products in excess of the minimum quarterly throughput commitments under our commercial agreements. During refinery turnarounds, which typically last 30 to 60 days and are performed every four to five years, we expect that Valero will satisfy only its minimum quarterly throughput commitments under our commercial agreements. Our commercial agreements with Valero generally have initial terms of 10 years from the date of acquisition of the related asset (the earliest of which begin to expire in 2023), and with the exception of certain assets, Valero has the option to renew the agreements for one additional five-year term. If Valero fails to use our facilities and services after expiration of those agreements and we are unable to generate additional revenues from third parties, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders will be reduced.. Further, Valero may suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations under our commercial agreements if certain events occur, such as Valero's determination to totally or partially suspend refining operations at one of its refineries that our assets support for a period that will continue for at least 12 months, or a force majeure event that impacts one of Valero's refineries for more than 60 days. Any such reduction, suspension, or termination of Valero's obligations would have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We may not be able to obtain third-party revenues due to competition and other factors outside our control, which could limit our ability to grow and may extend our dependence on Valero.. Our ability to obtain third-party revenues is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including competition from third parties, availability of potential acquisition opportunities, and the extent to which we have available capacity when third-party shippers require it. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to materially increase third-party revenues. Our efforts to establish our reputation and attract new unaffiliated customers may be adversely affected by our relationship with Valero and our desire to provide services pursuant to fee-based contracts. Our potential customers may prefer to obtain services under contracts through which we could be required to assume direct commodity exposure.. Our ability to acquire transportation and logistics assets from Valero is subject to risks and uncertainty, and ultimately we may not further acquire any assets from Valero.. Our present growth strategy depends significantly on acquiring assets from Valero. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions will depend upon, among other things, Valero's willingness to offer assets for sale, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements and commercial agreements with respect to such assets, and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. We have no control over Valero's decision to offer us the ability to acquire any of its assets. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions from Valero, and Valero is under no obligation to accept any offer that we may choose to make. In addition, we may decide not to acquire additional assets from Valero, and any such decision will not be subject to unitholder approval. In addition, our right of first offer with respect to certain of Valero's assets under our omnibus agreement may be terminated by Valero at any time in the event that it no longer controls our general partner.. 20. Table of Contents. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Valero or third parties, our future growth would be limited, and any acquisitions we may make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders.. Our strategy to grow our business and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in distributable cash flow per unit. Our growth strategy is based in part on our expectation of ongoing divestitures by industry participants, including our right of first offer from Valero. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions will depend upon, among other things, whether:. • we are able to identify attractive acquisition candidates;. • we are able to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements;. • we are able to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; and. • we are outbid by competitors.. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to consummate any future acquisitions, whether from Valero or any third parties. If we are unable to make future acquisitions, our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in distributable cash flow per unit as a result of incorrect assumptions in our evaluation of such acquisitions, unforeseen consequences, or other external events beyond our control. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating acquired businesses or assets, inefficiencies, and unexpected costs and liabilities.. Our ability to expand may be limited if Valero does not grow its business.. Our growth strategy depends in part on the growth of Valero's business. We believe our growth will be driven in part by identifying and executing organic expansion projects that will result in increased throughput volumes from Valero and third parties. If Valero focuses on other growth areas or does not make capital expenditures to fund the growth of its business, we may not be able to fully execute our growth strategy.. Our and Valero's operations are subject to many risks and operational hazards. If a significant accident or event occurs that results in a business interruption or shutdown for which we are not adequately insured, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to sustain or increase distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and operational hazards inherent in transporting, terminaling, and storing crude oil and refined petroleum products, including:. • damages to facilities, equipment, and surrounding properties caused by third parties, severe weather, natural disasters, and acts of terrorism;. • maintenance, repairs, mechanical or structural failures at our or Valero's facilities or at third-party facilities on which our or Valero's operations are dependent, including electrical shortages, power disruptions, and power grid failures;. • damages to and loss of availability of interconnecting third-party pipelines, terminals, and other means of delivering crude oil, feedstocks, and refined petroleum products;. • disruption or failure of information technology systems and network infrastructure due to various causes, including unauthorized access or attack;. 21. Table of Contents. • curtailments of operations due to severe seasonal weather; and. • riots, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, as well as other industrial disturbances.. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage, as well as business interruptions or shutdowns of our facilities. Any such event or unplanned shutdown could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. In addition, Valero's refining operations supported by our assets, on which our operations are substantially dependent and over which we have no control, are subject to similar operational hazards and risks inherent in refining crude oil.. Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs, or liabilities that we may experience, and insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so or substantially increase premiums.. We do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses and could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. We maintain insurance policies for certain property damage, business interruption, and third-party liabilities, which includes pollution liabilities, and are subject to policy limits under these policies. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance or failure by one or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Insurance companies may reduce the insurance capacity they are willing to offer or may demand significantly higher premiums or deductibles to cover these facilities. If significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at a reasonable cost. We cannot provide assurance that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. The unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We are subject to the risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. If Valero or any other significant customer defaults on its obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could reduce our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Our expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal, and economic risks, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. In order to optimize our existing asset base, we intend to evaluate and capitalize on organic opportunities for expansion projects in order to increase revenues on our pipelines and terminals. The expansion of existing pipelines or terminals, such as by adding horsepower, pump stations, or loading racks, or the construction or expansion of new transportation and logistics assets, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Moreover, we may not receive sufficient. 22. Table of Contents. long-term contractual commitments from customers to provide the revenues needed to support such projects and we may be unable to negotiate acceptable interconnection agreements with third-party pipelines to provide destinations for increased throughput. Even if we receive such commitments or make such interconnections, we may not realize an increase in revenues for an extended period of time. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability in the future to make distributions to our unitholders.. We do not own all of the land on which our assets are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which our assets are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid leases or rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our assets on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies, and some of our agreements may grant us those rights for only a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew leases, right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We are dependent upon third parties to operate some of our assets.. Certain of our assets are operated by third parties. Success in jointly owned assets depends in large part on whether our partners, over whom we may have little or no control, satisfy their contractual obligations. If such third parties fail to operate such assets in accordance with the terms of any applicable operating agreement with them or otherwise fail to meet their contractual obligations, such failures could result in our inability to meet our commitments to our customers, which in turn could result in a reduction in our revenues, or in us becoming liable to our customers for any losses they may sustain by reason of our failure to comply, which losses may not be recoverable by us. Differences in opinions or views between us and our partners can result in delayed decision-making or failure to agree on material issues that could adversely affect the business and operations of such assets. Additionally, the failure by a partner to comply with applicable laws, regulations, or client requirements could negatively impact our business.. Our substantial indebtedness and the restrictions in our revolving credit facility, senior notes, and subordinated credit agreements with Valero could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, and the value of our units.. As of December 31, 2017, our total debt, which includes notes payable  -  related party, was $1.275 billion. Our substantial indebtedness and the additional debt we may incur in the future for potential acquisitions may adversely affect our liquidity and therefore our ability to make interest payments on our notes.. We are dependent upon the earnings and cash flows generated by our operations in order to meet any debt service obligations and to allow us to make distributions to our unitholders. Our substantial indebtedness and the restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness could restrict our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. For example, our revolving credit facility and subordinated credit agreements contain covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) for the prior four fiscal quarters of not greater than 5.0 to 1.0 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter (or 5.5 to 1.0 during specified periods following certain acquisitions).. 23. Table of Contents. Our substantial indebtedness and the restrictions in our revolving credit facility, senior notes, and subordinated credit agreements could affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our debt agreements could result in an event of default, which would enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt agreements, if any, may be triggered, and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Please read \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity\" for additional information about the agreements governing our indebtedness.. A downgrade of our credit ratings, which are determined by independent third parties, could impact our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.. Our access to credit and capital markets depends on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. We currently maintain investment-grade ratings by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P), Moody's Investors Service (Moody's), and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) on our notes. Ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold our securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. Specifically, if ratings agencies were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which could adversely affect our ability to attract potential investors and our funding sources could decrease. In addition, we may not be able to obtain favorable credit terms from our suppliers or they may require us to provide collateral, letters of credit, or other forms of security, which would increase our operating costs. As a result, a downgrade below investment grade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity, or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make distributions at our intended levels.. In the future, the interest rates on our indebtedness could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by our level of distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board, which increased its targeted federal funds rate several times in 2017 and may continue to do so. As the Federal Reserve Board increases its target federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make distributions at our intended levels.. Compliance with and changes in environmental and pipeline integrity and safety laws could adversely affect our performance.. The principal environmental risks associated with our operations are emissions into the air and releases into the soil, surface water, or groundwater. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and. 24. Table of Contents. regulations, including those relating to the discharge and remediation of materials in the environment, greenhouse gas emissions, waste management, species and habitat preservation, pollution prevention, pipeline integrity and other safety-related regulations, and characteristics and composition of fuels. Certain of these laws and regulations could impose obligations to conduct assessment or remediation efforts at our facilities or third-party sites where we take wastes for disposal or where our wastes migrated. Environmental laws and regulations also may impose liability on us for the conduct of third parties or for actions that complied with applicable requirements when taken, regardless of negligence or fault. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws and regulations, it could lead to administrative, civil, or criminal penalties or liability and the imposition of injunctions, operating restrictions, or the loss of permits.. Because environmental laws and regulations are becoming more stringent and new environmental laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed, the level of expenditures required for environmental matters could increase in the future. Current and future legislative action and regulatory initiatives could result in changes to operating permits, material changes in operations, increased capital expenditures and operating costs, increased costs of the goods we transport, and decreased demand for products we handle that cannot be assessed with certainty at this time. We may be required to make expenditures to modify operations or install pollution control equipment or release prevention and containment systems that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity if these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the tariffs and other fees we receive for our services.. For example, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has, in recent years, adopted final rules making more stringent the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for ozone, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen dioxide. Emerging rules and permitting requirements implementing these revised standards may require us to install more stringent controls at our facilities, which may result in increased capital expenditures. Governmental restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions, including those that have been or may be imposed in various states or at the federal level, could also result in material increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions or permitting delays for our business, and an increase in the cost of, and reduction in demand for, the products we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. For example, in May 2016, the EPA finalized new rules for volatile organic compound and methane emissions from the oil and gas production, processing, transmission and storage industry. In June 2017, the EPA proposed to stay those requirements for 90 days. The 90-day stay was vacated in July 2017. The EPA also proposed a two-year stay to those requirements in June 2017, and that two-year stay has not yet been finalized. Prior to the inauguration of President Trump, the EPA announced that it intends to develop methane emission standards for existing sources and issued information collection requests to companies with production, gathering and boosting, gas processing, storage, and transmission facilities. In addition, in 2015, the U.S. participated in the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, which led to the creation of the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement, which was signed by the U.S. in April 2016, requires countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set greenhouse gas emission reduction goals, every five years beginning in 2020. While the Trump Administration announced its intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement in June 2017, there are no guarantees that it will not be implemented.. Further, certain of our pipeline facilities may be subject to the pipeline integrity and safety regulations of various federal and state regulatory agencies. In recent years, increased regulatory focus on pipeline integrity and safety has resulted in various proposed or adopted regulations. For example, in June 2016, President Obama signed the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016 (2016 Pipeline Safety Act) that extends statutory mandate of the Department of Transportation's Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Administration (PHMSA) under prior legislation through 2019 and, among other things, requires PHMSA to complete certain of its outstanding mandates and develop new safety standards for natural gas. 25. Table of Contents. storage facilities by June 22, 2018. The 2016 Pipeline Safety Act also empowers PHMSA to address imminent hazards by imposing emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures on owners and operators of gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facilities without prior notice or an opportunity for a hearing. Additionally, on January 13, 2017, PHMSA announced the issuance of the Pipeline Safety: Safety of Hazardous Liquids Pipelines final rule. However, this was withdrawn following the Trump Administration's January 20, 2017, announcement that all regulations that had been sent to the Office of the Federal Register, but not yet published, be immediately withdrawn for further review. Compliance with pipeline safety laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, should we fail to comply with pipeline safety regulations, we could be subject to penalties and fines. PHMSA has the authority to impose civil penalties for pipeline safety violations up to a maximum of approximately $200,000 per day for each violation and approximately $2,000,000 for a related series of violations. This maximum penalty authority established by statute has been and will continue to be adjusted periodically to account for inflation. The implementation of these regulations, and the adoption of future regulations, could require us to make additional capital expenditures, including to install new or modified safety measures, or to conduct new or more extensive maintenance programs at our pipeline facilities.. Severe weather events may have an adverse effect on our assets and operations.. Some members within the scientific community believe that the increasing concentrations of greenhouse gas emissions in the Earth's atmosphere, among other reasons, may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events. If any such climatic events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations.. We may be unable to obtain or renew permits necessary for our operations, which could inhibit our ability to do business.. Our facilities operate under a number of federal and state permits, licenses, and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate. These permits, licenses, approval limits, and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record keeping, and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval limit, or standard. Noncompliance or incomplete documentation of our compliance status may result in the imposition of fines, penalties, and injunctive relief. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to continue operations and on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Many of our assets have been in service for many years and, as a result, our maintenance or repair costs may increase in the future. In addition, there could be service interruptions due to unknown events or conditions or increased downtime associated with our pipelines that could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Our pipelines and terminals are generally long-lived assets, and many of them have been in service for many years. The age and condition of our assets could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures in the future. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows, as well as our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. 26. Table of Contents. The tariff rates of our regulated assets are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators, which could adversely affect our revenues and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We own pipeline assets in Texas, New Mexico, Tennessee, Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas, and Oklahoma, and we provide both interstate and intrastate transportation services for refined petroleum products and crude oil. Many of our pipelines are common carriers and may be required to provide service to any shipper that requests transportation services on our pipelines.. Many of our pipelines provide interstate transportation services that are subject to regulation by FERC under the ICA. FERC uses prescribed rate methodologies for developing and changing regulated rates for interstate pipelines. Shippers may protest (and FERC may investigate) the lawfulness of existing, new, or changed tariff rates. FERC can suspend new or changed tariff rates for up to seven months and can allow new rates to be implemented subject to refund of amounts collected in excess of the rate ultimately found to be just and reasonable. If FERC finds a rate to be unjust and unreasonable, it may order payment of reparations for up to two years prior to the filing of a complaint or investigation, and FERC may prescribe new rates prospectively. We may also be required to respond to requests for information from government agencies, including compliance audits conducted by the FERC.. State agencies may regulate the rates, terms, and conditions of service for our pipelines offering intrastate transportation services, and such agencies could limit our ability to increase our rates or order us to reduce our rates and pay refunds to shippers. State agencies have generally not been aggressive in regulating common carrier pipelines, have generally not investigated the rates, terms, and conditions of service of intrastate pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints, and generally resolve complaints informally.. Under our commercial agreements, we and Valero have agreed to the base tariff rates for all of our pipelines and a mechanism to modify those rates during the term of the agreements. Valero has also agreed not to challenge the base tariff rates or changes to those rates during the term of the agreements, except to the extent such changes are inconsistent with the agreements. These agreements do not, however, prevent any other new or prospective shipper, FERC, or a state agency from challenging our tariff rates or our terms and conditions of service, and due to the complexity of rate making, the lawfulness of any rate is never assured. A successful challenge of any of our rates, or any changes to FERC's approved rate or index methodologies, could adversely affect our revenues and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Similarly, if state agencies in the states in which we offer intrastate transportation services change their policies or aggressively regulate our rates or terms and conditions of service, it could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. The FERC's ratemaking policies are subject to change and may impact the rates charged and revenues received on our interstate oil pipelines. In July 2016, in United Airlines, Inc. v. FERC, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit) vacated a pair of FERC orders to the extent they permitted an interstate petroleum products pipeline owned by a master limited partnership to include an income tax allowance in its cost-of-service-based rates. The D.C. Circuit held that the FERC had failed to demonstrate that the inclusion of an income tax allowance in the pipeline's rates would not lead to an over-recovery of costs attributable to regulated service. The D.C. Circuit instructed the FERC on remand to fashion a remedy to ensure that the pipeline's rates do not allow it to over-recover its costs. In response to the D.C. Circuit's remand, in December 2016, the FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry seeking comments regarding how to address any potential double recovery resulting from the FERC's current income tax allowance and rate of return policies. Initial comments were filed in March 2017 with reply comments filed in April 2017. We cannot currently predict when the FERC will issue an order in the Notice of Inquiry proceeding or what. 27. Table of Contents. action the FERC may take in any such order. Depending upon the resolution of these issues, the cost of service rates of any interstate liquids pipeline could be affected to the extent it proposes new rates or changes its existing rates or if its rates are subject to complaint or are challenged by the FERC.. In addition, there is not always a clear boundary between interstate and intrastate pipeline transportation services, and such determinations are fact-dependent and made on a case-by-case basis. Our undivided interest in the McKee to El Paso pipeline currently provides transportation services pursuant to an intrastate tariff that is subject to regulation by the TRRC. Because a portion of this pipeline crosses New Mexico and our transportation services may be interstate in nature, we applied for a waiver of the tariff filing and reporting requirements of the ICA for our portion of the pipeline, which the FERC conditionally granted. The FERC's conditions for granting the waiver include that we maintain all books and records in a manner consistent with the Uniform System of Accounts and that we immediately report any change in the circumstances on which the waiver was granted.. If Valero fails to provide the personnel necessary to conduct our operations, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted.. Valero is responsible for providing the personnel necessary to conduct our operations, including the executive officers of our general partner. We depend on the services of these individuals. If their services are unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. We cannot assure our unitholders that we would be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms or at all.. Terrorist or cyber-attacks and threats, or escalation of military activity in response to these attacks, could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Terrorist attacks and threats, cyber-attacks, or escalation of military activity in response to these attacks, may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets and transportation assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist or cyber-attacks than other targets in the U.S. We do not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability or loss resulting from a cyber-attack on our assets that may shut down all or part of our business. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. A significant interruption related to our information technology systems could adversely affect our business.. Our information technology systems and network infrastructure may be subject to unauthorized access or attack, which could result in a loss of intellectual property, proprietary information or employee, customer or vendor data; public disclosure of sensitive information; increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events; systems interruption; or the disruption of our business operations. A breach could also originate from, or compromise, our customers' and vendors' or other third-party networks outside of our control. A breach may also result in legal claims or proceedings against us by our unitholders, employees, customers and vendors. There can be no assurance that our infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans can prevent a technology systems breach or systems failure, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Furthermore, the continuing and evolving threat of cyber-attacks has resulted in increased regulatory focus on prevention. To the extent we face. 28. Table of Contents. increased regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to meet such requirements.. Our customers' operating results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Our customers depend on favorable weather conditions in the spring and summer months.. Demand for gasoline is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in motor vehicle traffic. As a result, our customers' operating results are generally lower for the first and fourth quarters of each year. Unfavorable weather conditions during the spring and summer months and a resulting lack of the expected seasonal upswings in traffic and sales could adversely affect our customers' business, financial condition, and results of operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial conditions, and results of operations.. The level and terms of Valero's indebtedness and its credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to grow our business and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders and our credit ratings and profile.. If the level of Valero's indebtedness increases significantly in the future, it would increase the risk that Valero may default on its obligations to us under our commercial agreements. The terms of Valero's indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds and may impact our operations in a similar manner. If Valero were to default under its debt obligations, Valero's creditors could attempt to assert claims against our assets during the litigation of their claims against Valero. The defense of any such claims could be costly and could materially impact our financial condition, even absent any adverse determination. If these claims were successful, our ability to meet our obligations to our creditors, make distributions, and finance our operations could be materially and adversely affected. If one or more credit rating agencies were to downgrade Valero's credit rating, we could experience an increase in our borrowing costs or difficulty accessing the capital markets. Such a development could adversely affect our ability to grow our business and to make distributions to our unitholders.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Our general partner and its affiliates, including Valero, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. Additionally, we have no control over the business decisions and operations of Valero, and Valero is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us.. As of January 31, 2018, Valero owned a 66.2 percent limited partner interest in us and owns and controls our general partner. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is not adverse to the best interests of us and our unitholders, because it is a wholly owned subsidiary of Valero, the directors and officers of our general partner also have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is beneficial to Valero. Conflicts of interest may arise between Valero and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, the general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including Valero, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Valero to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, which could involve decisions by Valero to increase or decrease refinery production, shut down or reconfigure a refinery, shift the focus of its investment and growth to areas not served by our assets, or undertake acquisition opportunities for itself;. 29. Table of Contents. • Valero has an economic incentive to cause us to not seek higher rates and fees, even if such higher rates and fees would reflect those that could be obtained in arm's-length, third-party transactions;. • Valero's directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make decisions beneficial to the stockholders of Valero, which may be contrary to our interests; in addition, many of the officers and directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of Valero and will owe fiduciary duties to Valero and its stockholders;. • Valero may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests;. • our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting our general partner's liabilities, and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;. • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;. • disputes may arise under our commercial agreements with Valero;. • our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;. • our general partner will determine the amount and timing of many of our capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which would not reduce operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce our operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;. • our general partner will determine which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us;. • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions;. • our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $50 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings, or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions to our general partner in respect of the general partner units or the incentive distribution rights;. • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;. • our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the common units. As of January 31, 2018, Valero owned 67.5 percent of our common units, and, as a result, Valero did not have the ability to exercise the limited call right;. • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including under the omnibus agreement and our commercial agreements with Valero;. • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants, or others to perform services for us; and. 30. Table of Contents. • our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights or the elimination of our incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, which we refer to as our conflicts committee, or our unitholders. Any such action may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors, and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement, or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity, or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and we will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow.. In addition, because we intend to distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our debt agreements on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. Our general partner has certain incentive distribution rights that reduce the amount of our cash available for distribution to our common unitholders.. Our general partner currently holds a general partner interest in us that entitles it to receive two percent of all distributions paid to our common unitholders and incentive distribution rights that entitle it to receive an increasing percentage (13 percent, 23 percent and 48 percent) of quarterly distributions of available cash from operating surplus after the minimum quarterly distribution and certain target distribution levels have been achieved. Throughout 2017, our general partner was at the top tier of the incentive distribution rights scale. Because a higher percentage of our cash is allocated to our general partner due to our incentive distribution rights, it is more difficult for us to increase the amount of distributions to our unitholders and our cost of capital is higher, making investments, capital expenditures and acquisitions, and therefore, future growth, more costly.. The fees and reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates, including Valero, for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce our distributable cash flow. In certain cases, the amount and. 31. Table of Contents. timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner and its affiliates, including Valero.. Pursuant to our partnership agreement, we reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including Valero, for expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. Pursuant to the amended and restated omnibus agreement, as amended, we pay an annual fee of $13.2 million to Valero for general and administrative services and reimburse Valero for any out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by Valero in providing these services to us. In the event we acquire additional assets from Valero in the future, we may agree to increase such annual fee. In addition, we are required to reimburse our general partner for its payments to Valero pursuant to the services and secondment agreement for the wages, benefits, and other costs of Valero employees seconded to our general partner to perform operational and maintenance services at certain of our pipeline and terminal systems. Each of these payments will be made prior to making any distributions on our common units. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates reduces our cash flows, and, as a result, reduces our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. There is no limit on the fees and expense reimbursements that we may be required to pay to our general partner and its affiliates.. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that:. • whenever our general partner (acting in its capacity as our general partner), the board of directors of our general partner, or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner, and any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the decision was not adverse to our best interests, and, except as specifically provided by our partnership agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • our general partner is not liable to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith;. • our general partner and its officers and directors are not liable to us or our limited partners for monetary damages resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • our general partner is not in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement (including any duties to us or our unitholders) if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:. <U+25E6> approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval;. <U+25E6> approved by the vote of a majority of our outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates;. 32. Table of Contents. <U+25E6> determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or. <U+25E6> determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner or the conflicts committee must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth subbullet points above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors of our general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership challenging such determination, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. If a unitholder is not an \"Eligible Holder,\" the unitholder's common units may be subject to redemption.. Our partnership agreement includes certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units. \"Eligible Holders\" are limited partners whose (a) federal income tax status is not reasonably likely to have a material and adverse effect on the rates that can be charged by us on assets that are subject to regulation by FERC or an analogous regulatory body and (b) nationality, citizenship, or other related status would not create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest, in each case as determined by our general partner with the advice of counsel. If the unitholder is not an Eligible Holder, in certain circumstances as set forth in our partnership agreement, the unitholder's units may be redeemed by us at the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot be used to vote on any matter.. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. For example, unlike a holder of stock in a public corporation, our unitholders do not have \"say on pay\" advisory voting rights. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner and will have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the sole member of our general partner, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Valero. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. 33. Table of Contents. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent.. Our unitholders are not able to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66<U+2154> percent of all outstanding common units is required to remove our general partner. As of January 31, 2018, Valero owned 67.5 percent of our common units (excluding common units held by officers and directors of our general partner and Valero).. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest in us without a vote of our unitholders to an affiliate or another person in connection with its merger or consolidation with or into, or sale of all or substantially all of its assets to, such person. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Valero to transfer all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers.. The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party, it will have less incentive to grow our partnership and increase distributions. A transfer of incentive distribution rights by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of Valero selling or contributing additional assets to us, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base.. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests.. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such limited partner interests. Further, there are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue equity securities that rank equal or senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash we have available to distribute on each unit may decrease;. • because the amount payable to holders of incentive distribution rights is based on a percentage of total available cash, the distributions to holders of incentive distribution rights will increase even if the per unit distribution on common units remains the same;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. 34. Table of Contents. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of our common units may decline.. Valero may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. As of January 31, 2018, Valero held 46,768,586 of our common units. Additionally, we have agreed to provide Valero with certain registration rights under applicable securities laws. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop.. Our general partner's discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus the cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, our partnership agreement permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of our distribution to unitholders.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require the unitholders to sell common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of our then-outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of January 31, 2018, our general partner and its affiliates owned less than 80 percent of our outstanding common units, but in the future, we may engage in transactions with Valero pursuant to which we may issue additional common units to Valero.. Our general partner, or any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Our general partner has the right, at any time when the holders have received incentive distributions at the highest level to which they are entitled (48 percent) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters (and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed adjusted operating surplus for each such quarter), to reset the minimum quarterly distribution and the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Given our distribution history, our general partner is currently able to exercise this right. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the \"reset minimum quarterly distribution\"), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. Our general partner has the right to. 35. Table of Contents. transfer the incentive distribution rights at any time, in whole or in part, and any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights shall have the same rights as our general partner with respect to resetting target distributions.. In the event of a reset of the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels, the holders of the incentive distribution rights will be entitled to receive, in the aggregate, the number of common units equal to that number of common units that would have entitled the holders to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. Our general partner will also be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain the same percentage general partner interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal expansion projects that would not otherwise be sufficiently accretive to distributions per common unit. It is possible, however, that our general partner or a transferee could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distribution payments based on target distribution levels that are less certain to be achieved in the then-current business environment. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to limit its liability, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replace those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include:. • how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and its other affiliates;. • whether to exercise its limited call right;. 36. Table of Contents. • whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner;. • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns;. • whether to exercise its registration rights;. • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels;. • whether to transfer the incentive distribution rights to a third party; and. • whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement.. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder agrees to become bound by the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We are required to disclose material changes made in our internal control over financial reporting on a quarterly basis and we are required to assess the effectiveness of our controls annually. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and timely financial reports, to prevent fraud, and to operate successfully as a publicly traded limited partnership. We may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. For example, Section 404 requires us, among other things, annually to review and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to develop, implement, or maintain effective internal controls or to improve our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm's, future conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. A unitholder's liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. A unitholder could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if a unitholder were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that (i) we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or (ii) a unitholder's right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement, or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute \"control\" of our business.. 37. Table of Contents. Our unitholders may have to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable both for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are nonrecourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have, and we do not have or intend to have, a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to our affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE's shareholder approval rules that apply to a corporation. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Tax Risks. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, or if we were otherwise subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation, then our distributable cash flow would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21 percent for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, and 35 percent to the extent we were treated as a corporation in any taxable years ending prior to January 1, 2018, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions generally would be taxed again to our unitholders as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributable cash flow would be substantially reduced. In addition, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states.. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for. 38. Table of Contents. federal, state, or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded limited partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative or judicial interpretation, or legislative change, at any time, and potentially retroactively. We are unable to predict whether any such modifications will ultimately occur.. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. A unitholder's share of our taxable income, and its relationship to any distributions we make, may be affected by a variety of factors, including our economic performance, transactions in which we engage or changes in law, and may be substantially different from any estimate we make in connection with a unit offering.. A unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to it, which may require the unitholder to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, even if the unitholder receives cash distributions from us that are less than the actual tax liability that results from that income or no cash distributions at all.. A unitholder's share of our taxable income, and its relationship to any distributions we make, may be affected by a variety of factors, including our economic performance, which may be affected by numerous business, economic, regulatory, legislative, competitive and political uncertainties beyond our control, and certain transactions in which we might engage. For example, we may engage in transactions that produce substantial taxable income allocations to some or all of our unitholders without a corresponding increase in cash distributions to our unitholders, such as a sale or exchange of assets, the proceeds of which are reinvested in our business or used to reduce our debt, or an actual or deemed satisfaction of our indebtedness for an amount less than the adjusted issue price of the debt. A unitholder's ratio of its share of taxable income to the cash received by it may also be affected by changes in law. For instance, under the recently enacted tax reform law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, the net interest expense deductions of certain business entities, including us, are limited to 30 percent of such entity's \"adjusted taxable income,\" which is generally taxable income with certain modifications. If the limit applies, a unitholder's taxable income allocations will be more (or its net loss allocations will be less) than would have been the case absent the limitation.. From time to time, in connection with an offering of our units, we may state an estimate of the ratio of federal taxable income to cash distributions that a purchaser of units in that offering may receive in a given period. These estimates depend in part on factors that are unique to the offering with respect to which the estimate is stated, so the expected ratio applicable to other units will be different, and in many cases less favorable, than these estimates. Moreover, even in the case of units purchased in the offering to which the estimate relates, the estimate may be incorrect due to the uncertainties described above, challenges by the IRS to tax reporting positions which we adopt, or other factors. The actual ratio of taxable income to cash distributions could be higher or lower than expected, and any differences could be material and could materially affect the value of the common units.. 39. Table of Contents. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case we may require our unitholders and former unitholders to reimburse us for such taxes (including any applicable penalties or interest) or, if we are required to bear such payment, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us. We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our general partner and our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so (and will choose to do so) under all circumstances, or that we will be able to (or choose to) effect corresponding shifts in state income or similar tax liability resulting from the IRS adjustment in states in which we do business in the year under audit or in the adjustment year. If we make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, we may require our unitholders and former unitholders to reimburse us for such taxes (including any applicable penalties or interest) or, if we are required to bear such payment, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during that taxable year.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. Unitholders who sell common units will recognize gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the unitholder's tax basis in its common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such common units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than its original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to the unitholder due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons, raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Any tax-exempt entity or non-U.S. person should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Under the recently enacted tax reform law, if a unitholder sells or otherwise disposes of a common unit, the transferee is required to withhold 10 percent of the amount realized by the transferor unless the transferor certifies that it is not a foreign person, and we are required to deduct and withhold from the transferee amounts that should have been withheld by the transferee but were not withheld. However, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS have determined that this withholding requirement should not apply to any disposition of a publicly traded interest in a publicly traded partnership (such as us) until regulations or other guidance. 40. Table of Contents. have been issued clarifying the application of this withholding requirement to dispositions of interests in publicly traded partnerships. Accordingly, while this new withholding requirement does not currently apply to interests in us, there can be no assurance that such requirement will not apply in the future.. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss, and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss, and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Although simplifying conventions are contemplated by the Code and most publicly traded partnerships use similar simplifying conventions, the use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing or proposed Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Department of the Treasury recently adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention for taxable years beginning on or after August 3, 2015. However, such regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have currently adopted. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss, or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income.. 41. Table of Contents. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss, and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss, and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss, and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. As a result of investing in our common units, a unitholder may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes, and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if the unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. We conduct business and/or control assets in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Tennessee, and Texas. Except for Texas, all of these states currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is each unitholder's responsibility to file all federal, state, and local tax returns. Unitholders should consult their own tax advisors regarding such matters. Under the tax laws of some states where we conduct business, we may be required to withhold a percentage from amounts to be distributed to a unitholder who is not a resident of that state.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial, or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative, or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, the President and members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including elimination of partnership tax treatment for publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Moreover, any such modification could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception that allows publicly traded partnerships that generate qualifying income to be treated as partnerships (rather than corporations) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, affect or cause us to change our business activities, or affect the tax consequences of an investment in our common units. We are unable to predict whether any such changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. 42. Table of Contents. Compliance with and changes in tax law could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal and state income tax laws and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, franchise and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future. Many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority. These audits may result in additional taxes as well as interest and penalties."
