[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Listed below are certain risk factors associated with us and our businesses. See also certain risk factors discussed in Item 7  -  \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.\"  In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or increased operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities.. Our assets consist primarily of investments in our operating subsidiaries, and we are dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries to service our liabilities.. The majority of our operating cash flows are generated by our operating subsidiaries, and our ability to service liabilities and to pay dividends on our common stock depends to a large extent upon the cash dividends or other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and they have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay such cash dividends or other distributions to us. In addition, the payment of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions, currency exchange regulations in jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate or any other restrictions imposed by current or future agreements to which our subsidiaries may be a party, including debt instruments. Events beyond our control, including changes in general business and economic conditions, could adversely impact the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. If our subsidiaries were to become unable to make sufficient cash dividends or other distributions to us, our ability to service our liabilities and to pay dividends on our common stock could be adversely affected.. In addition, a significant portion of our assets consist of ownership interests in our subsidiaries. If we were required to liquidate any of such securities in order to generate funds to satisfy our liabilities, we may be required to sell such securities at a time or times at which we would not be able to realize what we believe to be the long-term value of such assets.. Demand for, and prices of, certain of our products are influenced by changing market conditions for our products, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses.. Our Chemicals Segment's sales and profitability is largely dependent on the TiO2 industry.  In 2017, 94% of our Chemicals Segment's sales were attributable to sales of TiO2.  TiO2 is used in many \"quality of life\" products for which demand historically has been linked to global, regional and local gross domestic product and discretionary spending, which can be negatively impacted by regional and world events or economic conditions.  Such events are likely to cause a decrease in demand for our products and, as a result, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Pricing within the global TiO2 industry over the long term is cyclical and changes in economic conditions, especially in Western industrialized nations, can significantly impact our earnings and operating cash flows.  Historically, the markets for many of our products have experienced alternating periods of increasing and decreasing demand.  Relative changes in the selling prices for our products are one of the main factors that affect the level of our profitability.  In periods of increasing demand, our selling prices and profit margins generally will tend to increase, while in periods of decreasing demand our selling prices and profit margins generally tend to decrease.  In addition, pricing may affect customer inventory levels as customers may from time to time accelerate purchases of TiO2 in advance of anticipated price increases or defer purchases of TiO2 in advance of anticipated price decreases.  Our ability to further increase capacity without additional investment in greenfield or brownfield capacity increases may be limited and as a result, our profitability may become even more dependent upon the selling prices of our products.. The TiO2 industry is concentrated and highly competitive and we face price pressures in the markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses.. The global market in which we operate our Chemicals business is concentrated with the top six TiO2 producers accounting for approximately two-thirds of the world's production capacity and is highly competitive.  Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service.  Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products if their costs are lower than our costs.  In addition, some of our competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions.  Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements.  Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers may result in reduced demand for our products or make it more difficult for us to compete with our competitors.  The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses.. Higher costs or limited availability of our raw materials may reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity. In addition, many of our raw material contracts contain fixed quantities we are required to purchase.. The number of sources for and availability of certain raw materials used in our Chemicals Segment is specific to the particular geographical region in which a facility is located.  For example, titanium-containing feedstocks suitable for use in our TiO2 facilities are available from a limited number of suppliers around the world.  Political and economic instability in the countries from. - 17 -. which we purchase our raw material supplies could adversely affect their availability.  If our worldwide vendors were unable to meet their contractual obligations and we were unable to obtain necessary raw materials, we could incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels.  We experienced significantly higher ore costs in 2012 which carried over into 2013.  We have seen moderation in the purchase cost of third-party feedstock ore since 2013 through the first half of 2017; however, the cost of third-party feedstock ore we procured in the last half of 2017 is slightly higher as compared to the first half of 2017. We may also experience higher operating costs such as energy costs, which could affect our profitability.  We may not always be able to increase our selling prices to offset the impact of any higher costs or reduced production levels, which could reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity.. We have long-term supply contracts that provide for our TiO2 feedstock requirements that currently expire through 2019.  While we believe we will be able to renew these contracts, there can be no assurance we will be successful in renewing them or in obtaining long-term extensions to them prior to expiration. Our current agreements (including those entered into through January 2018) require us to purchase certain minimum quantities of feedstock with minimum purchase commitments aggregating approximately $383 million in years subsequent to December 31, 2017.  In addition, we have other long-term supply and service contracts that provide for various raw materials and services. These agreements require us to purchase certain minimum quantities or services with minimum purchase commitments aggregating approximately $128 million at December 31, 2017.  Our commitments under these contracts could adversely affect our Chemicals Segment's operating income.. Certain raw materials used in our Component Products Segment's products are commodities that are subject to significant fluctuations in price in response to world-wide supply and demand as well as speculative investor activity.  Zinc and brass are the principal raw materials used in the manufacture of security products.  Stainless steel tubing is the major raw material used in the manufacture of marine exhaust systems.  These raw materials are purchased from several suppliers and are generally readily available from numerous sources.  We occasionally enter into short-term raw material supply arrangements to mitigate the impact of future increases in commodity-related raw material costs.  Materials purchased outside of these arrangements are sometimes subject to unanticipated and sudden price increases.  Should our vendors not be able to meet their contractual obligations or should we be otherwise unable to obtain necessary raw materials, we may incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels, either of which may decrease our liquidity or negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations as we may be unable to offset the higher costs with increases in our selling prices or reductions in other operating costs.. We could incur significant costs related to legal and environmental remediation matters.. NL formerly manufactured lead pigments for use in paint.  NL and others have been named as defendants in various legal proceedings seeking damages for personal injury, property damage and governmental expenditures allegedly caused by the use of lead-based paints.  These lawsuits seek recovery under a variety of theories, including public and private nuisance, negligent product design, negligent failure to warn, strict liability, breach of warranty, conspiracy/concert of action, aiding and abetting, enterprise liability, market share or risk contribution liability, intentional tort, fraud and misrepresentation, violations of state consumer protection statutes, supplier negligence and similar claims.  The plaintiffs in these actions generally seek to impose on the defendants responsibility for lead paint abatement and health concerns associated with the use of lead-based paints, including damages for personal injury, contribution and/or indemnification for medical expenses, medical monitoring expenses and costs for educational programs.  As with all legal proceedings, the outcome is uncertain.  Any liability we might incur in the future could be material.  See also Item 3 - \"Legal Proceedings - Lead pigment litigation.\". Certain properties and facilities used in our former operations are the subject of litigation, administrative proceedings or investigations arising under various environmental laws.  These proceedings seek cleanup costs, personal injury or property damages and/or damages for injury to natural resources.  Some of these proceedings involve claims for substantial amounts.  Environmental obligations are difficult to assess and estimate for numerous reasons, and we may incur costs for environmental remediation in the future in excess of amounts currently estimated.  Any liability we might incur in the future could be material.  See also Item 3 - \"Legal Proceedings - Environmental matters and litigation.\". Many of the markets in which our Component Products Segment operates are mature and highly competitive resulting in pricing pressure and the need to continuously reduce costs.. Many of the markets our Component Products Segment serves are highly competitive, with a number of competitors offering similar products.  We focus our efforts on the middle and high-end segment of the market where we feel that we can compete due to the importance of product design, quality and durability to the customer.  However, our ability to effectively compete is impacted by a number of factors.  The occurrence of any of these factors could result in reduced earnings or operating losses.. •  Competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products beyond our ability to adjust costs because their costs are lower than ours, especially products sourced from Asia.. •  Competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, which may enable them to more effectively withstand changes in market conditions.. - 18 -. •  Competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements.. •  Consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the markets in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products.. •  A reduction of our market share with one or more of our key customers, or a reduction in one or more of our key customers' market share for their end-use products, may reduce demand for our products.. •  New competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities to manufacture products that compete with our products.. •  We may not be able to sustain a cost structure that enables us to be competitive.. •  Customers may no longer value our product design, quality or durability over the lower cost products of our competitors.. Our development of innovative features for current products is critical to sustaining and growing our Component Product Segment's sales.. Historically, our Component Products Segment's ability to provide value-added custom engineered products that address requirements of technology and space utilization has been a key element of our success.  We spend a significant amount of time and effort to refine, improve and adapt our existing products for new customers and applications.  Since expenditures for these types of activities are not considered research and development expense under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\"), the amount of our research and development expenditures, which is not significant, is not indicative of the overall effort involved in the development of new product features.  The introduction of new product features requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of the new product features with current and potential customers.  The ability to coordinate these activities with current and potential customers may be affected by factors beyond our control.  While we will continue to emphasize the introduction of innovative new product features that target customer-specific opportunities, we do not know if any new product features we introduce will achieve the same degree of success that we have achieved with our existing products.  Introduction of new product features typically requires us to increase production volume on a timely basis while maintaining product quality.  Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in increasing production volumes, including delays, quality control problems and shortages of qualified personnel or raw materials.  As we attempt to introduce new product features in the future, we do not know if we will be able to increase production volume without encountering these or other problems, which might negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations.. If our intellectual property were to be declared invalid, or copied by or become known to by competitors, or if our competitors were to develop similar or superior intellectual property or technology, our ability to compete could be adversely impacted.. Protection of our intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks and tradenames, is important to our businesses and our competitive positions.  We endeavor to protect our intellectual property rights in key jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which our products are imported.  However, we may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property in key jurisdictions.  Although we own and have applied for numerous patents and trademarks throughout the world, we may have to rely on judicial enforcement of our patents and other proprietary rights.  Our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, and rendered unenforceable or otherwise compromised.  A failure to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Similarly, third parties may assert claims against us and our customers and distributors alleging our products infringe upon third-party intellectual property rights.. It is the practice of our Chemicals Segment to enter into confidentiality agreements with its employees and third parties to protect our proprietary expertise and other trade secrets; however these agreements may not provide sufficient protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or adequate remedies for breaches of such agreements may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and know-how.  We also may not be able to readily detect breaches of such agreements.  The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary technology, know-how or trade secrets could result in a material loss of our competitive position, which could lead to significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share.. Our Component Products Segment relies on patent, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in our technology and designs.  Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated.  Others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties.  Further, we do not know if any of our pending trademark or patent applications will be approved.  Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our intellectual property rights.  In addition, the laws of certain. - 19 -. countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.  Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our technology and designs adequately against unauthorized third party use, which could adversely affect our competitive position.. Third parties may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights.  Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and distract our management's and technical staff's attention and resources.  Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected technology, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our technology.  If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable pricing terms or at all, or substitute similar technology from another source, our business could be adversely impacted.. If we must take legal action to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, any suits or proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of resources and management's attention, and we may not prevail in any such suits or proceedings.  A failure to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our Real Estate Management and Development Segment owns a significant amount of real property in Henderson, Nevada.  A prolonged downturn in the local real estate market in Nevada could negatively impact our ability to successfully complete the development of such real property.. A substantial portion of the revenues and assets associated with our Real Estate Management and Development Segment relate to certain real estate under development in Henderson, Nevada, including approximately 2,100 acres zoned for residential/planned community purposes and approximately 400 acres zoned for commercial and light industrial use. A prolonged downturn in the local real estate market in Nevada or other events could negatively impact our ability to successfully complete the development of such real property, either by requiring us to incur future development costs in excess of our current estimates, or by resulting in selling prices for future retail land sales lower than what we currently expect.  If any of these events were to occur, revenue and profits in our Real Estate Management and Development segment may be significantly and negatively affected.. Our leverage may impair our financial condition or limit our ability to operate our businesses.. We have a significant amount of debt, primarily related to Kronos' Senior Notes, our loan from Contran Corporation, our loans from Snake River Sugar Company and the BMI bank note. As of December 31, 2017, our total consolidated debt for continuing operations was approximately $1,043.1 million. Our level of debt could have important consequences to our stockholders and creditors, including:. •  making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our liabilities;. •  increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions;. •  requiring that a portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, which reduces our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends on our common stock, acquisitions or general corporate requirements;. •  limiting the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us;. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate requirements;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. •  placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors.. In addition to our indebtedness, we are party to various lease and other agreements (including feedstock ore purchase contracts as previously described) pursuant to which, along with our indebtedness, we are committed to pay approximately $496.4 million in 2018. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our future ability to generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds under certain of our revolving credit facilities in the future will, in some instances, depend in part on these subsidiaries' ability to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial covenants contained in the applicable credit agreement.. Our businesses may not generate cash flows from operating activities sufficient to enable us to pay our debts when they become due and to fund our other liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt in a timely manner on favorable terms, if at all, in the current credit markets. Any. - 20 -. inability to generate sufficient cash flows or to refinance our debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. As a global business, we are subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States.. We have global operations and derive a large portion of our sales from customers outside the United States.  Accordingly, our international operations or those of our international customers could be substantially affected by a number of risks arising with operating an international business, including trade barriers, tariffs, exchange controls, economic and political conditions, compliance with a variety of non-United States laws and regulations (including income tax laws and regulations) or compliance with United States law and regulations in respect to doing business internationally, limitations or restrictions on the repatriation of non-United States earnings to the United States, and difficulty in enforcing agreements or other legal rights.  Our operations are also subject to the effects of global competition.   These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in exchange rates and interest rates can adversely affect our net sales, profits and cash flows.. We operate our businesses in several different countries and sell our products worldwide.  For example, during 2017, approximately one-half of our Chemicals Segment's sales volumes were sold into European markets.  The majority (but not all) of our sales from our operations outside the United States are denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar, primarily the euro, other major European currencies and the Canadian dollar.  Therefore, we are exposed to risks related to the need to convert currencies we receive from the sale of our products into the currencies required to pay for certain of our operating costs and expenses and other liabilities (including indebtedness), all of which could result in future losses depending on fluctuations in currency exchange rates and affect the comparability of our results of operations between periods.. Global climate change legislation could negatively impact our financial results or limit our ability to operate our businesses.. We operate production facilities in several countries.  In many of the countries in which we operate, legislation has been passed, or proposed legislation is being considered, to limit greenhouse gases through various means, including emissions permits and/or energy taxes.  In several of our production facilities, we consume large amounts of energy, primarily electricity and natural gas.  To date, the permit system in effect in the various countries in which we operate has not had a material adverse effect on our financial results.  However, if further greenhouse gas legislation were to be enacted in one or more countries, it could negatively impact our future results from operations through increased costs of production, particularly as it relates to our energy requirements or our need to obtain emissions permits.  If such increased costs of production were to materialize, we may be unable to pass price increases onto our customers to compensate for increased production costs, which may decrease our liquidity, operating income and results of operations.. Technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We rely on information technology systems to manage, process and analyze data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of our products to and from our plants. We receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of and collections from our customers, and manage the accounting for and payment to our vendors.  In this regard, in January 2017 Kronos implemented a new enterprise resource planning system covering certain finance processes (principally general ledger, accounts receivable and accounts payable), and in January 2018 Kronos implemented the remaining portion of such enterprise resource planning system covering sales, procurement, manufacturing and plaint maintenance.  Although we have systems and procedures in place to protect our information technology systems, there can be no assurance that such systems and procedures would be sufficiently effective.   Therefore, any of our information technology systems may be susceptible to outages, disruptions or destruction as well as cyber security breaches or attacks, resulting in a disruption of our business operations, injury to people, harm to the environment or our assets, and/or the inability to access our information technology systems.  If any of these events were to occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected."
