[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. Although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business operations. If any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESSES. Our performance depends on successful improvements to our existing products and commercialization of new products.. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid change and technological innovation. Our performance depends on the successful commercialization of new products that reflect and respond to changes in the marketplace, technology and customer demands.. Our Oncology Systems products often have long development and government approval cycles, are technologically complex and must demonstrate high performance to remain competitive.. Our software products compete in markets characterized by rapid technological advances, changing delivery models, evolving standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. We are expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and software-as-a-service (\"SaaS\") solutions. The development and introduction of new software platforms and software delivery models, as well as different business models, is complex with many technology, regulatory and legal hurdles. We cannot assure you we can successfully develop and implement such platforms or models or that our customers will accept them.. Our VPT products require capital commitment, planning, design, development and testing, as well as involvement of senior management. Because of the large footprint and high price of many proton therapy systems there is increasing demand for the development of smaller, more compact proton therapy systems. Other companies currently offer smaller, less expensive proton therapy systems, and our competitiveness will depend on our ability to timely develop new technologies to reduce the size and price of our system or provide additional features and functionality that our competitors do not.. We may need to spend more time and money than anticipated to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements. We may not be able to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment. New products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete, which could adversely impact our revenues and operating results. In addition, certain costs, including installation and warranty costs, associated with new products may be disproportionately greater than the costs associated with other products, and if we are unable to lower these costs over time, our operating results could be adversely affected.. Our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product enhancements depends on our ability to:. •properly identify and respond to customer needs;. •demonstrate the value proposition of new products;. •limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production;. •timely and efficiently comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes;. 18. •limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals;. • accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns or shortages caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products;. •price our products competitively and profitably;. • manufacture, deliver and install our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; and. •and manage customer demands for new and old products, and optimize complementary product lines and services.. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully commercialize new products because commercialization involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the Quality System Regulation (\"QSR\") of the FDA. Failure to complete these processes on a timely and efficient basis could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract or retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders.. A portion of a product's revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product and our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred where it takes longer to manufacture or install the new products. Customers may also decide not to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required.. We compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or more effective technologies, or be forced to reduce our prices.. The markets for cancer treatment are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. In radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with Elekta AB and Accuray Incorporated. In addition, our software products compete with the product offerings of a variety of companies, such as Philips Medical Systems, RaySearch Laboratories AB and Brainlab AG.. New competitors may enter our markets and have already entered some of our newer markets such as radiosurgery, VMAT and proton therapy. Established enterprise software developers with greater software development capability may enter the markets for cancer treatment software. Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other development resources than we have. To compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical capabilities, in a complete package of products and services, and do so ahead of our competitors.. As our Oncology Systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. New competitors may also delay the purchasing decisions of customers as they evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our gross orders and revenues.. The shift in the proportion of sales outside the United States towards emerging market countries, which typically purchase less complex, lower-priced products compared to more developed countries, and which usually have stiffer price competition and longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition, could also adversely impact our results of operations.. The market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and pricing pressure. Our primary competitor in the proton therapy market is Ion Beam Applications S.A. Our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to lower our product costs, and develop and provide technically superior, proven products that deliver precise, cost-effective, high quality capabilities.. Large amounts of resources are being invested in the research and development of new therapies for cancer. The successful development of alternative therapies for cancer, including, for example, pharmaceutical treatments such as immunotherapy, increased efficacy information about new therapies or existing products, pricing decisions by competitors and the rate of market penetration by competitive products may render our products obsolete, result in lost market share for us, reduced utilization of our products, lower prices, and reduced product sales.. The timing of our competitors' introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. Some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a. 19. marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. Also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we are subject to, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. Any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. In addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. Our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses.. The interoperability of radiation oncology treatment products is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to establish interoperability.. As radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focusing on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. We have directed substantial product development efforts into (1) increasing the interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (2) making our software products easier to use and (3) reducing setup and treatment times to increase patient throughput. Our equipment and software are highly sophisticated and a high level of training and education is required to use them safely and effectively. The requirements are made even more important because they work together within integrated environments.. We have emphasized an \"open systems\" approach that allows customers to \"mix and match\" our individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation and chemotherapy treatment. We have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of IMRT, IGRT and VMAT and will stimulate demand for our products. There are competitive \"closed-ended\" dedicated-use systems that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. If we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an \"open systems\" approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to increase interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. Obtaining and maintaining interoperability and compatibility can be costly and time-consuming. While we try to use standard published protocols for communication with widely-used oncology products manufactured by other companies, if we cannot do this, we may need to develop individual interfaces so that our products communicate correctly with other products.. When other companies modify the design or functionality of their products, this may affect their compatibility with our products. In addition, when we improve our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to potential interoperability issues. For example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software does not yet communicate correctly with our new product. Our ability to obtain compatibility with products of other companies may depend on our ability to obtain adequate information from them regarding their products. In many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may schedule their product changes and delay their release of relevant information to place us at a competitive disadvantage.. When we modify our products to make them interoperable or compatible with third-party products, we may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. This process is costly and could delay our ability to release our products for commercial use. It is also possible that, despite our efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive to our customers.. Disruption of critical information systems or material security breaches in our products may adversely affect our business and customer relations.. Information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with and support our customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and produce our financial statements. There is an increasing threat of information security attacks that pose risk to companies, including Varian. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. Such security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of information, litigation and possible liability to employees, customers and regulatory authorities. If our data management systems do not effectively collect, secure, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable. 20. laws and regulations will be impaired. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and the timeliness with which we report our operating results internally and externally.. We manufacture and sell hardware products that rely upon software systems to operate properly and software that deliver treatment instructions and store confidential patient information. Both types of products often are connected to and reside within our customers' information technology infrastructures. While we have implemented security measures to protect our hardware and software products from unauthorized access, these measures may not be effective in securing these products, particularly since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. Additionally, we are developing and offering cloud and SaaS software products which reside upon and are hosted by third-party providers. A security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third-party hosting services could disrupt treatments occurring on our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers' stored information, including patient health information. Such an event could have serious negative consequences, including possible patient injury, regulatory action, fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, and time-consuming and expensive litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. If we were to experience a significant security breach of our information systems or data, the costs associated with the investigation, remediation and potential notification of the breach to customers and counter-parties could be material. We currently self-insure for cybersecurity liability. If we seek to obtain third party insurance coverage for cybersecurity liability in the future, our insurance coverage may be inadequate, expensive and/or not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all.. We may offer extended payment terms to certain customers, which could adversely affect our financial results.. We offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers. As of September 29, 2017, customer contracts with remaining terms of more than one year amounted to approximately two percent of our net accounts receivable balance.. While we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer payment term. Many of the customers where we offer such longer or extended payment terms are located in under-developed legal systems for securing debt and enforcing collection of debt. Concerns over economic instability could also make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. This may result in an increase in payment defaults and uncollectible accounts, or could cause us to increase our bad debt expense, which would adversely affect our net earnings. In addition, longer or extended payment terms decrease our cash flow from operations and could impact the timing of our revenue recognition.. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable.. Our international revenues accounted for approximately 54%, 56%, and 51% of our total revenues during fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Correspondingly, we must provide significant service and support globally. We intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend resources in doing so. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recover these investments in international markets.. Our results of operation could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including:. • the lower sales prices and gross margins usually associated with sales of our products in international regions, and in emerging markets in particular;. •the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers;. • the typically longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition in certain international and emerging markets;. •currency fluctuations;. • difficulties in interpreting or enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country's legal systems;. • unstable regional political and economic conditions or changes in restrictions on trade between the United States and other countries;. 21. • changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region, including as a result of the initiation by United Kingdom to exit the European Union (\"Brexit\");. • the imposition by governments, including the United States, of additional taxes, tariffs, global economic sanctions programs or other restrictions on foreign trade;. •any inability to obtain required export or import licenses or approvals;. • any inability to comply with export or import laws and requirements or any violation of sanctions regulations, which may result in enforcement actions, civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on exportation;. • any increase in the cost of trade compliance functions to comply with changes to regulatory requirements;. • failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements to conduct business in a foreign jurisdiction; and. • the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries.. Most of our cash and cash equivalents are held abroad. If these funds are repatriated to the United States, we could be subject to additional taxation.. As of September 29, 2017, approximately 95% of our cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. If these funds were repatriated to the United States, a portion of this amount could be subject to additional taxation and our overall tax rate and our results of operations could suffer.. Our effective tax rate is impacted by tax laws in both the United States and in the countries in which our international subsidiaries do business. Earnings from our international regions are generally taxed at rates lower than U.S. rates. A change in the percentage of our total earnings from outside the United States, a change in the mix of our earnings in particular international tax jurisdictions, or a change in currency exchange rates, could cause our effective tax rate to increase or decrease. Also, we are not currently taxed in the United States on certain undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. These earnings could become subject to incremental foreign withholding or United States federal and state taxes if they are remitted, or deemed to be remitted, to the United States, in which case our financial results would be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in tax laws or rates, changes in the interpretation of tax laws or other changes beyond our control could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. For example, the U.S. Congress is considering changes to U.S. tax law, including provisions, which if passed into law, would have a significant impact on the taxation of the foreign earnings of U.S.-based multinational corporations.. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may impact our results.. Because our business is global and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand, or our revenues and expenses, and/or the profitability in U.S. Dollars of products and services that we sell in foreign markets.. While we use hedging strategies to help offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide is affected by the timing of transactions, the effectiveness of the hedges, the number of transactions that are hedged and forecast accuracy. If our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues, margins and other operating results may be adversely impacted. Furthermore, movements in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not in another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period.. In addition, our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis, typically up to the next twelve-month period. Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over a longer term. Long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. A substantial portion of our international sales are priced in local currencies, although our cost structure is weighted towards the U.S. Dollar. Therefore, the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar may adversely affect our competitiveness and financial results, as our foreign competitors may have cost structures based in other currencies and they may be more competitive when the U.S. Dollar strengthens against those currencies.. Changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of economic and or political instability, or in reaction thereto, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. Furthermore, if one or more European countries were. 22. to replace the Euro with another currency, our sales into these countries, or into Europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established.. We are subject to certain risks related to the separation of our former imaging components business into Varex Imaging Corporation.. On January 28, 2017, we completed the separation of our former Imaging Components business through the distribution of 100% of the outstanding common stock of Varex Imaging Corporation (\"Varex\") to our stockholders. Following the separation, Varex is the sole source of supply of X-ray tubes, flat panels and detector components used in certain of our products, such as our On-Board Imager.. In connection with the separation, we entered into several agreements with Varex providing for transition and other services to Varex for a period of time following the separation. Performing our obligations under these agreements requires significant time and attention from many of our employees, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, marketing or other benefits from the separation. Following the separation, Varian is a smaller, less diversified company with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and lead to increased volatility in the price of our common stock.. We obtained an opinion of outside counsel to the effect that the separation will qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free to both Varian and its stockholders for United States federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. An opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") or any court. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinion or that a court would not sustain such a challenge.. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial results.. From time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters, both inside and outside the United States, including product liability claims and intellectual property claims. Legal proceedings are often lengthy, taking place over a period of years before the outcome is final. Litigation is subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations.. If a legal proceeding were finally resolved against us, it could result in significant compensatory damages, and in certain circumstances punitive or trebled damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief imposed on us. If our existing insurance does not cover the amount or types of damages awarded, or if other resolution or actions taken as a result of the legal proceeding were to restrain our ability to market one or more of our material products or services, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business.. Consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products.. We have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our Oncology Systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. In addition, we have seen and may continue to see integration of equipment and information systems among hospitals as they consolidate their networks. As customers consolidate and/or integrate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. Alternatively, order size may increase, as what were previously more than one customer combine orders as one entity, or as groups of organizations combine their purchases. If orders increase in size and require more customer approvals, the purchasing cycle for our Oncology Systems products could lengthen. Both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our gross orders to be more volatile and less predictable and could result in longer overall order to revenue cycles. In addition, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an ACO environment and the possibility of bundled reimbursement payments. Group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. A reduction in pricing could negatively impact gross orders, future revenues and gross margins.. 23. Our business will suffer if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products.. In order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to educate physicians about the use of treatment procedures such as IMRT, IGRT, VMAT, SRS, SBRT or proton therapy, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of the product. For example, the complex and dynamic nature of IMRT and IGRT requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of and practices associated with IMRT and IGRT. Further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. We have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of IMRT, IGRT, VMAT radiotherapy, SRS, SBRT and proton therapy, to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies and to promote the safe and effective use of our products in compliance with their operating procedures. Future products may not gain adequate market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense educating them about these products.. Our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel.. Our future success depends, to a great degree, on our ability to retain, attract, expand, integrate and train our management team and other key personnel, such as qualified engineering, service, sales, marketing and other staff. We compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers, as well as universities and research institutions. As we continue to grow our software revenues, we face intense competition for personnel from software and technology companies. Because this competition is intense, compensation-related costs could increase significantly if the supply of qualified personnel decreases or demand increases. If we are unable to hire and train qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. Some of our executive officers have had long careers at our company. If these executives retire or leave, and we are unable to locate qualified or suitable replacements in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected.. We may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions of or investments in new businesses, products, or technologies, which could harm our business.. We need to grow and evolve our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. Identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. In addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our current business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results.. Even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or fully realize some of the expected synergies.. Integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. It may cost us more to commercialize new products, as we experienced with our proton therapy systems, or cause us to increase our research and development, sales and marketing or general and administrative expenses, either of which could adversely impact our results of operations. In many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company into a business that lacks them. It is also possible that an acquisition could increase our risk of litigation, as a third-party may be more likely to assert a legal claim following an acquisition because of perceived deeper pockets or perceived greater value of a claim. In addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. Failure to manage these risks could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we acquire a business, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses' tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. If we fail to achieve the anticipated growth or cash flows from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, acquisitions can result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results.. 24. Additionally, we have investments in privately held companies. These investments are inherently risky, in some instances because the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development may never materialize or reach expectations. If these companies do not succeed, we may be forced to record impairment charges and could lose some or all of our investment in these companies.. We may face additional risks from the acquisition or development of new lines of business.. From time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, as we did with particle therapy. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with new lines of business, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. Risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting market professionals, increasing research and development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. This may mean significant investment and involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop, then integrate the business into our operations. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact whether implementation of a new business will be successful. Failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Losing distributors may harm our revenues in some territories.. We have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products. If these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales or the ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected.. We entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial position.. We maintain a credit facility that contains affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. These provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. Because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required.. We have in the past used borrowings under our credit facility to fund the repurchase of VMS shares and we may continue to do so in the future. If we cannot use borrowings under our credit facility to fund announced share repurchases, because we have drawn down the maximum amounts borrowable under our credit facility, to do so would violate covenants in our credit facility, or otherwise, and we do not have access to other cash resources necessary to fund the desired share repurchases, it could have an adverse effect on our earnings per share. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default. Upon an event of default, if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. Even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms.. Changes in the interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results.. We prepare our financial statements to conform to GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. A change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. In addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate each period and make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods. We may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including ones regarding revenue recognition, than we have applied in past periods.. Currently, we recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and services under contract accounting rules, which affects the timing of revenue recognition. Under contract accounting rules, the use of the percentage-of-completion method involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods, estimates which must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted. For example, revenues recognized under. 25. the percentage-of-completion method are based on contract costs incurred to date compared with total estimated contract costs. In circumstances in which the final outcome of a contract cannot be precisely estimated but a loss on the contract is not expected, we recognize revenues under the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero-profit margin until more precise estimates can be made. Recognizing revenues this way lowers our gross margins and makes it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter. In addition, if we were to recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and services under either the completed contract method or outside of contract accounting rules altogether, we would defer revenue until a contract is completed or substantially completed. This may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period.. If our estimates prove to be inaccurate or circumstances change over time, we would be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss in later periods, and our financial results could suffer. In addition, if a loss is expected on a contract under the percentage-of-completion method, the estimated loss would be charged to cost of sales in the period the loss is identified. The application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of VMS common stock could suffer or become more volatile.. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control.. We conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the State of California and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes and other natural disasters. We carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. A major earthquake or other disaster (such as a major fire, hurricane, flood, tsunami, volcanic eruption or terrorist attack) affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace the damaged facilities. These delays could be lengthy and costly. If any of our customers' facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. Additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal or may move to a competitor that can meet their desired delivery time frame. In addition, our facilities may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. Any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. Further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. In addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or an outbreak of epidemic diseases could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance.. We work in international locations with high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees or contractors or cause us to incur substantial costs.. We work in some international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. Some of our services are performed in or adjacent to high-risk locations where the country or surrounding area is suffering from political, social, or economic issues; war or civil unrest, or has a high level of criminal or terrorist activity. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. Despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results.. Product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, litigation, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm our future financial results.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. Because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body and other situations where people may come into contact with radiation, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists to the intended or unintended recipient of the delivery. Our products operate within our customers' facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately delivers radiation to patients. Human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments, particularly with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operates according to specifications. As a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture,. 26. installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products with other products, or their misuse or failure. In addition, third-party service providers could fail to adequately perform their obligations, which could subject us to further liability. We may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. Any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, litigation, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. In connection with our products that collect and store patient treatment data, we may be liable for the loss or misuse of such private data, if those products fail or are otherwise defective.. Product liability actions are subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. If a product liability action were finally determined against us, it could result in significant damages, including the possibility of punitive damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Adverse publicity regarding any accidents or mistreatments could cause patients to be less receptive to radiotherapy or radiosurgery treatments, to question the efficacy of radiation therapy and radiosurgery and to seek other methods of treatment. Adverse publicity could also result in additional regulation that could adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products.. In addition, if a product we design or manufacture were defective or found to be so by a competent regulatory authority, we may be required to correct or recall the product and notify other regulatory authorities. The adverse publicity resulting from a correction or recall, however imposed, could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. A product correction or recall could consume management time and have an adverse effect on our results of operation.. We maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and do no maintain professional liability/errors and omissions insurance. Our product liability insurance policies are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. If a material claim is successfully brought against, we may have to pay substantial damages if they are not covered by insurance.. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR SOFTWARE PRODUCTS. We may face delays in the installation of our software products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We may face delays in the installation and acceptance of our software products, which may take more time from order to completion of installation and acceptance than our hardware products. Though several of our software products are cloud-enabled, our current software product offerings are for the most part designed as on-premise products which must be installed on customer systems on-site. Delays in installation of our software products may arise as a result of a variety of factors, including longer installation timetables resulting from challenges in coordinating on-site visits with the customer personnel, customer IT systems not being ready to host the installation or the planning and customization required to deploy our software products in order to be compatible with a customer's unique, complex and/or dated health IT systems. Delays in installation of our software products could result in delays in our ability to recognize revenues from the sale of these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance.. The need to maintain and service multiple versions of the same software product across our installed base of customers could adversely affect our ability to release upgraded or new products.. Because there is no uniform practice among our customer base of updating to more recent versions of our software products and, for a variety of reasons, many of our customers do not regularly update to the newest version of our software products, at any point in time our installed base of customers may be running several different versions of our software products. The need to maintain and service multiple versions of the same software product across our installed base of customers can be cumbersome, time consuming and may require more personnel and other resources than would be the case if all of our customers utilized the same versions of our software products. Moreover, the fact that not all of our customers run the same version of our software products can complicate our ability to efficiently release upgrades to, or new versions of, our software products across our installed base. Similar complications to the release and installation of upgrades may be experienced with certain of our cloud-enabled products that have been developed using single tenant architecture, such as our 360 Oncology product. In addition, in many instances, unless a customer has a certain version of our software products installed, their system. 27. will not be compatible with certain of our other software or hardware products. Our inability to release new versions of software to customers or to sell customers other products because of incompatibility issues hurts our revenues and may make revenue projection less predictable.. Coding errors in our software and cloud offerings could adversely affect our results of operations.. Despite extensive testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, our software and cloud offerings sometimes contain coding or manufacturing errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. The detection and correction of any errors in released software or cloud offerings can be time consuming and costly. Errors in our software or cloud offerings could affect their ability to properly function or operate with other software, hardware or cloud offerings, could delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, could create security vulnerabilities in our products or services, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. If we experience errors or delays in releasing our software or cloud offerings or new versions thereof, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline.. We may not be successful in transitioning our customer base to software solutions deployed via cloud and SaaS solutions.. We are expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and SaaS solutions. Cloud and SaaS solutions for use in the health care industry must comply with stringent regulations in many of the countries in which our customers are located, particularly in relation to the use and storage of patient health data and privacy, and the regulations vary on a country-by-country basis. Our software products must be compliant with applicable regulation in the country in question before we can operationalize our offerings for customers located in those countries. Ensuring the compliance of our cloud and SaaS solutions with applicable regulation may take longer than expected, occur more slowly in certain countries than in others, require that design changes be developed into our products, or require more financial resources than anticipated.. In addition, even where our cloud and SaaS solutions are compliant with applicable regulation, customers may nevertheless refuse to adopt our products for numerous reasons, particularly in regards to the security of patient health data. Moreover, unless and until our cloud and SaaS solutions find general acceptance among our customer base we would likely need to maintain and continue to develop both our on-premise software product offerings and our cloud and SaaS solution platforms, which could prevent us from realizing the full benefits and efficiencies from transitioning to a cloud platform, result in higher costs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance.. An increase in the prevalence of cloud and SaaS delivery models offered by us and our competitors could also unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise software offerings, and have a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise software product and related service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability, at least in the shorter term. In addition, to the extent that demand for our cloud offerings increases in the future, we may experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our software licenses and our cloud offering arrangements.. Furthermore, our cloud and SaaS software products may reside upon and be hosted by third party providers. A security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third party hosting services, could disrupt treatments utilizing our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers' stored information, including patient health information.. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR VARIAN PARTICLE THERAPY BUSINESS. We participate in project financing for our particle therapy business, which has resulted in impairment charges and could result in payment defaults that adversely affect our financial results.. We have participated along with others in providing financing for the construction and start-up operations of several proton therapy centers and may provide financing to other particle therapy customers in the future. As of September 29, 2017, we had $171.9 million carrying value of loans outstanding to VPT customers, available-for-sale securities, notes receivable and short-term senior secured debt related to the VPT business. See \"Management Discussion and Analysis - Overview - Varian Particle Therapy\" and Note 16, \"VPT Loans and Securities\" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the carrying value of our outstanding loans relating to the establishment of proton therapy centers. Providing such financing has affected and could in the future adversely affect, our financial results, since a center may not be completed on time or within budget, or. 28. may not generate sufficient patient volumes and revenues to support scheduled loan payments or to facilitate a refinancing. If a borrower does not have the financial means to pay off loan amounts owing to us, and if we cannot recover loan amounts owing to us from the sale of any collateral or through other means, or in the event of a bankruptcy of the borrower, we may be required to write-off all, or a portion, of the loans, which would adversely affect our financial results. For example, in fiscal year 2017, the CPTC, to which we had project financing outstanding, filed for bankruptcy and we recorded $51.4 million in impairment charges related to that financing. We also recorded an allowance for doubtful accounts of $37.8 million related to CPTC and one other proton center in fiscal year 2017. Moreover, as of September 29, 2017, we had $35.0 million in subordinated loans and $25.1 million in long-term notes receivable outstanding from the Maryland Proton Therapy Center (\"MPTC\"). We have been informed that MPTC intends to refinance its outstanding senior indebtedness in early 2018. If MPTC fails to refinance its senior indebtedness as planned, it may impact debt with later maturities including ours, and we may be required to impair all or a portion of our indebtedness outstanding to MPTC. Please refer to \"Management Discussion and Analysis - Overview - Varian Particle Therapy\" and Note 16, \"VPT Loans and Securities\" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the impairment of the loans we extended. Any impairment charges relating to our VPT business could have a material adverse impact our operating results and financial position.. The financial results of our VPT business may be unpredictable and if our proton customers are unsuccessful, our financial results will be adversely affected.. The success of our particle therapy business will depend upon the widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. This technology is expensive and has not been widely adopted. Future developments may not be adopted as quickly as technological developments in more traditional areas of radiation therapy.. Since proton therapy projects are generally large, highly customized and more complex than projects in our Oncology Systems radiotherapy business, planning for these projects takes more resources. Many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require long lead times, which may require an increase in our inventory levels. This may cause fluctuations in the operating results of VPT that may make it difficult to predict our results and to compare our results from period to period.. The construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. Consequently, this business is vulnerable to deterioration in general economic and market conditions. Economic downturns, that result in a contraction in credit markets, have made and may continue to make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could adversely impact our operating results.. Proton therapy is expensive and changes in reimbursement rates for proton therapy treatments, or uncertainty regarding these reimbursement rates, such as we experienced in 2012 with the reductions to reimbursement rates for hospital based proton therapy centers in the United States by CMS, can affect growth or demand for our VPT products and services.. After a proton therapy facility is established, there can be no assurance that it will have sufficient patient volume to be successful or profitable. If a proton treatment center cannot generate sufficient patient volume, it may lead to a need to refinance or renegotiate debt, seek concession on payments, or ultimately insolvency and bankruptcy, as in the case of CPTC and Rinecker in Germany, which has and may in the future require us to impair loans if we have extended loans to the proton treatment center, or to record an allowance for doubtful accounts against accounts receivables due from the proton treatment center.. Our estimates as to future operating results include certain assumptions about the future results of VPT's business. If we are incorrect in our assumptions, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. It is possible that VPT could perform significantly below our expectations due to a number of factors that cannot be predicted with certainty, including future market conditions, market acceptance of proton therapy and reimbursement rates. These factors could adversely impact VPT's ability to meet its projected results, which could cause a portion or all of the goodwill of VPT to become impaired. As of September 29, 2017, the goodwill of VPT was $52.4 million. VPT's fair value was 21% in excess of its carrying value, and we believe each of the assumptions used to calculate VPT's fair value to be reasonable. However, VPT could be at risk for future goodwill impairment because adjustments to revenue growth rates, operating margins, weighted-average cost of capital (\"WACC\") and/or our working capital used in the fair value calculation could lead to an impairment. If we determine that VPT's goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to record a charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in such period.. 29. We compete for many proton therapy system sales through tenders, where parties compete on price and other factors. Many companies sell their products at a lower price than we do. If we are unable to lower our prices or our customers are not willing to pay for additional features and functionality that we may provide, we may lose sales, and if we lower our prices to gain business, our margins and other financial results may suffer. Further, the award of certain proton therapy system orders may be subject to challenge by third parties, which can make these orders more unpredictable than orders for other products. Because an order for a proton therapy system can be large and complex, and the sales cycle for proton therapy projects may take several years, an order in one fiscal period may cause our gross orders and revenues to vary significantly, making it difficult to predict and compare our results of operations from period to period.. We expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of VPT's business for the foreseeable future. In instances where one customer undertakes multiple proton center projects, an adverse event with respect to one project could cause an adverse event with respect to the other projects, which in turn could adversely impact our operating results and financial position.. Our VPT business may subject us to increased liability.. VPT's business may subject us to increased liability. For example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver or delays in delivering on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. Additionally, customers have in the past requested and may in the future request that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project. Since the cost of each proton therapy center project can often exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability and potential for financial loss would likely be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business and may also exceed the project's value. Insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable or expensive. If we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies or risks, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted or we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to us.. RISKS RELATING TO THE MANUFACTURE OF OUR PRODUCTS. Any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict the manufacture of products, cause delays in delivery, or significantly increase our costs.. We obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high dose rate brachytherapy, klystrons for linear accelerators and specialized integrated circuits and various other components; and radiofrequency components, magnets and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems.. If we lose any of these suppliers, if their operations were substantially interrupted, or if any of them failed to meet performance or quality specifications, we may be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers. Such an event may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of these products by the FDA or obtain other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. Events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations.. Some of our single-source suppliers provide components for some of our growing product lines. Manufacturing capacity limitations of any of our suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for our affected product lines. Shortage of, and greater demand for, components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs if the supply/demand imbalance increases the price of the components and subassemblies. Disruptions or loss of any of our limited-sourced or sole-sourced components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships.. In addition, following the separation of our former Imaging Components business into Varex in January 2017, Varex is the sole source supplier of tubes, panels and detector components used in certain of our products, such as our On-Board Imager. Any disruption or reduction in the supply of these components could result in delays or reductions in our product deliveries, which could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. Also, any unforecasted increases in the price of these components could adversely impact our profitability.. 30. A shortage or change in source of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods.. We rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead, iridium and copper for Oncology Systems and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for VPT. Worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. If supplies are restricted or become unavailable or if prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business.. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC has promulgated rules regarding disclosure of the presence in a company's products of certain metals, known as \"conflict minerals,\" which are metals mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to identify the sourcing of those minerals from this region. Complying with these rules requires investigative efforts, which has and will continue to cause us to incur associated costs, and could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products, or result in process or manufacturing modifications, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our financial results may suffer if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products.. Many of our products have a long production cycle, and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. If we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. Conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results.. We rely on third parties to perform spare parts shipping and other logistics functions on our behalf. Disruptions at our logistics providers may adversely impact our business.. Third-party logistics providers store a significant portion of our spare parts inventory in depots around the world and perform a significant portion of our spare parts logistics and shipping activities. If any of our logistics providers terminates its relationship with us, suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its operations, or if we have to change and qualify alternative logistics providers for our spare parts, shipments of spare parts to our customers may be delayed and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT. We face significant costs in complying with laws and regulations, and failure or delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or complying with laws and regulations could prevent product distribution, require product recalls, and result in significant penalties.. Our products and operations are subject to regulation by the FDA, the State of California, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ('NRC\") and countries or regions in which we market our products. In addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and source, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use and disposal of our products. We must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate our compliance protocols into the development and regulatory documentation for our products. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines.. United States FDA Regulations. Unless an exception applies, the FDA requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pre-market approval (\"PMA\") before it can market or sell those products in the United States. Certain of our devices are subject to 510(k) clearance while others are exempt from 510(k) clearance. Modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process also require a new 510(k) clearance. Manufacturers make the initial determination whether a change to a cleared device requires a new 510(k) clearance, but the FDA can review any such decision. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer's. 31. decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval for a change, the FDA may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. The FDA also can require the manufacturer to cease United States marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA approval is obtained. The FDA clearance process is uncertain and we may not be able to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals in a timely manner or at all.. We do not manufacture Class III medical devices which require PMA. The PMA process is more complex than the 510(k) clearance. As we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities that require clinical trials, we may seek to conduct clinical studies or trials in the United States or other countries on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for a particular indication. Additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. Such investigational use is generally also regulated by local and institutional requirements and policies which usually include review by an ethics committee or institutional review board ('IRB\"). Failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject us to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. Without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement or demonstrate other requirements. We cannot assure you that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary.. The FDA has issued draft guidance that, if finalized and implemented, will result in manufacturers needing to seek a significant number of new clearances for changes made to legally marketed devices. If we cannot establish that a proposed product is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device, we must seek pre-market approval through a PMA application. Under the PMA process, the applicant submits extensive supporting data, including, in most cases, data from clinical studies, in the PMA application to establish reasonable evidence of the safety and effectiveness of the product. This process typically takes at least one to two years from the date the PMA is accepted for filing, but can take significantly longer for the FDA to review.. In addition, after a device is placed on the market, numerous FDA and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. These include compliance with the medical device reporting regulations (\"MDRs\"), that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur, and compliance with corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FFDCA that may present a risk to health. If these reports are not filed on a timely basis, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. The FDA and the Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\") also regulate the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. In general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. Many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the United States have similar regulations to which we are subject.. Our manufacturing operations for medical devices, and those of our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation (\"QSR\"), as well as other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation-emitting products. The QSR covers, among other things, the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all medical devices intended for human use. The QSR also requires maintenance of extensive records which demonstrate compliance with FDA regulation, the manufacturer's own procedures, specifications and testing as well as distribution and post-market experience. Compliance with the QSR is necessary to receive FDA clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the United States. The FDA makes announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with the QSR. In connection with these inspections, the FDA issues reports, known as Form FDA 483 reports, when it believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. If observations from the inspection are not addressed, and/or corrective action is not taken in a timely manner and to the FDA's satisfaction, the FDA may issue an Untitled Letter, a Warning Letter and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action. Failure to respond timely to Form FDA 483 observations, a Warning Letter or other notice of noncompliance and to promptly come into compliance could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, total shutdown of production facilities, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. Such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the United States, and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product.. 32. United States NRC Regulations. Our products utilizing radioactive material are also subject to the NRC clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to federal and state regulation that varies from state to state and among regions. The manufacture, distribution, installation and service (and decommissioning and removal) of medical devices utilizing radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires a number of licenses and certifications. Service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. In addition, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant requirements. Disposal sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products may no longer accept these materials in the future, or may accept them on unfavorable terms.. Foreign regulations. In general, outside the United States, our products are regulated as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the FDA. In order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals for products and product modifications. These processes (including for example in the European Union (\"EU\"), the European Economic Area (\"EEA\"), Switzerland, China, Japan and Canada) can be time consuming, burdensome and uncertain, which can delay our ability to market products in those countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines.. Within the EEA, we must affix a CE mark, a marking of conformity that indicates that a product meets the essential requirements of the Medical Device Directive. This conformity to the Medical Device Directive is done through self-declaration and is verified by an independent certification body, called a \"Notified Body.\" Once the CE mark is affixed, the Notified Body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable European laws and Medical Device Directive. By affixing the CE mark marking to our product, we are certifying that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the EEA countries, thereby allowing the free movement of our products within these countries and others that accept CE mark standards. If we cannot support our performance claims and demonstrate compliance with the applicable European laws and Medical Device Directive, we would lose our right to affix the CE mark to our products, which would prevent us from selling our products within the EU/EEA/Switzerland territory and in other countries that recognize the CE mark.. In April 2017, the Medical Device Regulation was adopted to replace the Medical Device Directive. The Medical Device Regulation will apply after a three-year transition period and imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants Notified Bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. We may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations.. We are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to manufacturers of radiation emitting devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, as well as laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. These are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, the equivalent regulations in the United States. Sales overseas are also affected by regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging, labeling, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariffs, duties and taxes. In some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors and agents to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and we cannot be sure that they will always do so.. We are also subject to international \"fraud and abuse\" laws and regulations, as well as false claims and misleading advertisement laws. From time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, which could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. The laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business.. Data Privacy Laws. We are subject to laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information. Particularly within the EU/EEA/Switzerland area, data protection legislation is comprehensive and complex. Data protection authorities from the different member states of the EU may interpret the legislation differently, which adds to this complexity, and data protection is a dynamic field where guidance is often revised. Fully understanding and implementing this legislation could be quite costly and time consuming, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in some instances, in order to fulfill the requirements of applicable U.S. laws, we may be faced with deciding whether to comply with EU/EEA/Switzerland data protection rules. Failure or partial failure to comply with data protection rules and regulations across the EU/EEA/Switzerland area could result in substantial monetary fines. New data protection legislation that entails substantial changes to the current legal framework, some stricter than before, some less strict, was enacted by the EU Commission and will come into effect in 2018.. 33. Other United States Healthcare Laws. As a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to patient privacy and data security, fraud and abuse and physician payment transparency. The laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. Government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop. Non-compliance with \"anti-kickback\", \"false claims\" and transparency laws and regulations can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential mandatory or discretionary exclusion from healthcare programs. These healthcare laws include:. • The Medicare and Medicaid \"anti-kickback\" laws, and similar state laws, that prohibit payments or other remuneration intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. These laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. They particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. These laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances.. • Federal and state \"false claims\" laws generally prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other government payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be, and have been, held liable under these laws if they are deemed to \"cause\" the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the FDA.. • State and federal transparency laws, including laws in Massachusetts and Vermont, and the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act which require, among other things, the disclosure of equity ownership and payments to physicians, healthcare providers and hospitals.. Any failure or delay in complying with one or more of the regulatory requirements we face could result in reduced sales, increased costs, and harm to our reputation and competitiveness, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. The Affordable Care Act includes provisions that may adversely affect our business, including an excise tax on the sales of most medical devices.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the \"ACA\") became effective in 2010. The ACA could adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and therefore our financial position and results of operations, possibly materially. Specifically, one of the components of the ACA is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our Oncology Systems and VPT products, which took effect on January 1, 2013. This tax has had, and may in the future continue to have, a negative impact on our gross margin, but was suspended for 2016 and 2017. Unless there is further legislative action, the tax will be automatically reinstated for sales of medical devices on or after January 1, 2018.. In addition, discussions relating to the ACA have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"). ACOs and bundled payment programs were established by the ACA to reward integrated, efficient care and allow providers to share in any savings they achieve through the coordination of care and meeting certain mandated quality standards. ACOs and the bundled payment programs have primarily focused on primary care. However, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an ACO environment and bundled reimbursement payments. These and other elements of the ACA, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and the reporting of certain payments by us to healthcare professionals and hospitals, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and medical procedure volumes. We believe that growth of the radiation oncology market, which includes both traditional radiation therapy as well as proton therapy, in the United States could be adversely impacted as customers' decision-making processes. 34. are complicated by the uncertainties surrounding the implementation of the ACA and reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and that this uncertainty will likely continue into the next fiscal year and could result in a high degree of variability of gross orders and revenues from quarter-to-quarter.. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. We are also unable to predict what effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding federal and state health reform proposals, uncertainty related to implementation of ACA provisions, and instability within insurance markets created under the ACA, will have on our customer's purchasing decisions. However, an expansion in government's role in the United States healthcare industry may adversely affect our business, possibly materially. In addition, it is possible that changes in administration and policy, including the potential repeal of all or parts of the ACA could result in additional proposals and/or changes to health care system legislation which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The full effect that a full or partial repeal of the ACA would have on our business remains unclear at this time.. More recently, President Trump has signed an executive order and made statements that suggest he plans to seek repeal of all or portions of the ACA, and has asked Congress to replace the current legislation with new legislation. There is uncertainty with respect to the impact President Trump's administration may have, if any, and any changes likely will take time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the ACA. However, we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or the impact of potential legislation on us.. Changes to radiation oncology, reimbursements, and insurance deductibles and administration may affect demand for our products.. Sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations; and preferred provider organizations. In general, employers and third-party payors in the United States have become increasingly cost-conscious, with higher deductibles imposed or encouraged in many medical plans. The imposition of higher deductibles tends to inhibit individuals from seeking the same level of medical treatments as they might seek if the costs were lower. Third-party payors have also increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers.. There is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, and we cannot be sure that third-party payors will reimburse our customers at a level that will enable us to achieve or maintain adequate sales and price levels for our products. Without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited.. Once Medicare makes a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by Medicare annually. Private third-party payors, although independent from Medicare, sometimes use portions of Medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. As a result, decisions by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to Medicare's reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts may extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. We have seen our customers' decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding Medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the United States. From time to time, CMS and third-party payors may review and modify the factors upon which they rely to determine appropriate levels of reimbursement for cancer treatments. For example, CMS and third-party payors have begun to focus on the comparative effectiveness of radiation therapy versus other methods of cancer treatment, including surgery, and could modify reimbursement rates based on the results of comparative effectiveness studies. In addition, discussions relating to the Affordable Care Act have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and ACOs. Any significant cuts in reimbursement rates or changes in reimbursement methodology or administration for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts or changes in methodology or administration, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers' decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders and have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial position and stock price.. In April 2015, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (\"MACRA\") was signed into law, which made numerous changes to Medicare, Medicaid, and other healthcare related programs. These changes include new systems for establishing the annual updates to payment rates for physicians' services in Medicare. MACRA became effective on January 1, 2017. Our business may be significantly affected by MACRA and any changes in reimbursement policies and other legislative initiatives aimed at or having the effect of reducing healthcare costs associated with Medicare and other government healthcare programs.. 35. Foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system.. Any violation of federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices may result in substantial penalties. Investigation into our business practices could cause adverse publicity and harm our business.. Anti-corruption laws and regulations. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which became effective on July 1, 2011, and the Law \"On the Fundamentals of Health Protection in the Russian Federation,\" which became effective in January 2012. Any violation of these laws by us or our agents or distributors could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. Transparency International's 2016 Corruption Perceptions Index found that approximately sixty-nine percent of the countries in the index, including many that we consider to be high growth areas for our products, such as China, India, Russia and Brazil, scored below 50, on a scale from 100 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt). We currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt. Our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity by Transparency International. Increased business in higher risk countries could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability.. In addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies. For example, in June 2015, one of our foreign subsidiaries was charged by the Department for Investigation and Penal Action of Lisbon with alleged improper activities relating to three tenders of medical equipment in Portugal during the period of 2003 to 2009. We previously undertook an internal investigation of this matter and voluntarily disclosed the results of this investigation to the United States Department of Justice and the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. After the Company requested a judicial review available under Portuguese criminal procedure processes as to whether or not such charges are proper under Portuguese law, the matter was resolved and definitively dismissed on December 9, 2016, with no adverse findings or charges against the Company. Any such proceeding results in costs and management distraction, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. An adverse outcome under any such proceeding, investigation or audit could subject us to fines, or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Competition laws. We are subject to competition laws in the regions where we do business. Regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to sanctions, and can impose changes or conditions in the way we conduct our business. In addition, an increasing number of jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to seek damages asserting claims of anti-competitive conduct. Increased government scrutiny of our actions or enforcement or private rights of action could adversely affect our business or damage our reputation. In addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct, internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. An adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can result in liability.. We are subject to environmental laws around the world. These laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. They can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. As a consequence, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and others not recurring. Although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. We may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination.. Future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. Several countries, including some in the EU, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs of products at the end of the product's useful life, increasing our costs. The EU has also adopted directives that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances or other regulated substances in some of our products sold there. These directives, along with another that requires substance information to be provided upon request, could increase our operating costs in order to maintain. 36. access to certain markets. All of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Proposed changes to U.S. tax law may result in a reduced corporate tax rate, while also limiting or eliminating certain tax deductions and changing the taxation of foreign earnings of U.S. multinational companies. These changes could have a material adverse impact on the value of our deferred tax assets, our income taxes payable and our effective tax rate.. The U.S. Congress is considering significant changes to the U.S. tax code, including a reduction in the corporate tax rate, and changes to a number of deductions and to the treatment of foreign earnings of U.S. multinational companies. Our net deferred tax assets are measured using tax rates under current law. The proposed reduction in the corporate tax rate would result in a significant reduction in the value of our existing deferred tax assets, and consequently a charge to our earnings, in the period in which any rate change is enacted. The proposed changes also include a mandatory deemed repatriation of the foreign earnings of a U.S. company's foreign subsidiaries. If enacted, this proposal could result in an increase in our provision for income taxes in the period in which the proposal is enacted. At this time, it is uncertain whether or when any such tax reform proposals will be enacted into law and the ultimate impact of such legislation on our business and financial results is uncertain.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. Protecting our intellectual property can be costly and we may not be able to maintain licensed rights, which would harm our business.. We file applications for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. We cannot assure you that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. Issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. We also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. Asserting our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts managerial resources. An unfavorable outcome in such litigation or proceedings could harm us. In addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so.. We also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary and other confidential rights. These protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. In the event that our proprietary or confidential information is misappropriated, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. We have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them. We also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. In some cases, products with substantial revenues may depend on these license rights. If we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer.. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products.. There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the industries in which we compete. Our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies' activities for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. In addition, non-practicing entities may review our activities for conflicts with their patent rights. Determining whether a product infringes a third party's intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is uncertain. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. From time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. Any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. We may not prevail in a dispute. We do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so costs of defense, whether or not we are successful in defending an infringement claim, will be borne by us and could be significant. If we are unsuccessful in defending or appealing an infringement claim, we may be subject to. 37. significant damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may also be subject to injunctions against development and sale of our products, the effect of which could be to materially reduce our revenues.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK. Fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly gross orders, revenues, margins, and cash flows may cause our stock price to be volatile, resulting in losses for our stockholders.. We have experienced and expect to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including gross orders, revenues, margins and cash flows from period to period. Drivers of orders include the introduction and timing of announcement of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors, as well as changes or anticipated changes in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. The availability of economic stimulus packages or other government funding, or reductions thereof, may also affect timing of customer purchases. Many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. Accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. We have experienced this with our IGRT products, and it is especially true with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the proton therapy equipment and the complexity of project financing. In addition, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance. Economic uncertainty also tends to extend the purchasing cycle as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets, and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. In addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as IGRT and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay customer decision cycles and the placement of orders even further. The timing of order placement, equipment installation and revenue recognition affect our quarterly results.. Once orders are received and booked into backlog, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenue (or are cancelled or deemed dormant and reflected as a reduction in the backlog amounts) and the timing of revenue include:. • delay in shipment due, for example, to an unanticipated construction delay at a customer location where our products are to be installed, cancellations or reschedulings by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, port strikes or other labor actions;. •a challenge to a bid award for one or more of our products;. •delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product;. •failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order;. •the method of accounting used to recognize revenue;. •a change in a customer's financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or. •timing of necessary regulatory approvals or authorizations.. Our operating results, including our margins, may also be affected by a number of other factors, including:. •changes in our or our competitors' pricing or discount levels;. •impairment of loans, notes receivables, accounts receivable;. •changes in foreign currency exchange rates;. •changes in the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products;. •changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by different geographic regions;. •fluctuation in our effective tax rate, which may or may not be known to us in advance;. •changes to our organizational structure, which may result in restructuring or other charges;. • disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services;. • disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases;. 38. • the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry, as well as ongoing costs associated with legal proceedings; and. •accounting changes and adoption of new accounting pronouncements.. Because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which presently carry lower gross margins than do our traditional radiotherapy products. If our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of VMS common stock would likely decline.. We report our gross orders and backlog on a quarterly and annual basis. It is important to understand that, unlike revenues, gross orders and backlog are not governed by GAAP, and are not within the scope of the quarterly review or annual audit conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our gross orders or backlog in such a manner. Also, for the reasons set forth above, our gross orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. Order cancellation or delays in delivery dates will reduce our backlog and future revenues, and we cannot predict if or when orders will mature into revenues. Particularly high levels of cancellations in one period will make it difficult to compare our operating results for other periods.. In addition, our gross orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of VMS common stock would almost certainly decline."
