[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The Company is actively engaged in long-term strategic planning through initiative assessment, development and execution.  The strategic planning process consistently engages the Company's Board of Directors and is updated as the Company's strategic environment changes.  The result of that process is regularly communicated to all stakeholders, including investors, through a robust Investor Relations program.  Further, the Company has a strong compliance and risk management program that promotes a culture of compliance.  The Company is, however, subject to a variety of risks including execution on its strategies.  Investors should consider carefully the following factors that could cause the Company's operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected.. Corporate Risks. Vectren is a holding company, and its assets consist primarily of investments in its subsidiaries.. Dividends on the Company's common stock depend on the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and cash flow of its subsidiaries, principally Utility Holdings and Enterprises, and the distribution or other payment of earnings from those entities to the Company.  Should the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, cash flow, or legal requirements applicable to them restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to the Company, its ability to pay dividends on its common stock could be limited and its stock price could be adversely affected.  The Company's results of operations, future growth, and earnings and dividend goals also will depend on the performance of its subsidiaries.  Additionally, certain of the Company's lending arrangements contain restrictive covenants, including the maintenance of a total debt to total capitalization ratio.. A deterioration of current economic conditions may have adverse impacts.. Economic conditions may have some negative impact on both gas and electric industrial and commercial customers.  This impact may include volatility and unpredictability in the demand for natural gas and electricity, tempered growth strategies, significant conservation measures, and perhaps plant closures, production cutbacks, or bankruptcies.  Economic conditions may also cause reductions in residential and commercial customer counts and lower revenues.  It is also possible that an uncertain economy could affect costs including pension costs, interest costs, and uncollectible accounts expense.  Economic and commodity price declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for products and services offered by nonutility operations and therefore lower revenues for those products and services.  The economic conditions may have some negative impact on spending for utility and pipeline construction projects, demand for natural gas, and electricity, and spending on performance contracting and sustainable infrastructure expansion.  It is also possible that unfavorable conditions could lead to the impairment of Company assets, including its investment in ProLiance Holdings.. Financial market volatility could have adverse impacts.. The capital and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption.  If market disruption and volatility occurs, there can be no assurance the Company will not experience adverse effects, which may be material.  These effects may include, but are not limited to, difficulties in accessing the short and long-term debt capital markets and the commercial paper market, increased. 9. borrowing costs associated with short-term debt obligations, higher interest rates in future financings, and a smaller potential pool of investors and funding sources.  Finally, there is no assurance the Company will have access to the equity capital markets to obtain financing when necessary or desirable.. Change to United States laws, regulations, and policy may not have desired effects.. Policy and/or legislative changes in the areas of, among others, energy, comprehensive tax reform, environmental regulation, and/or infrastructure expenditures (including preference toward domestically sourcing expenditures) could have material impacts on the financial performance or condition of the Company. In addition, the Company's implementation of policy changes may or may not be received favorably by the Company's stakeholders and/or government officials advocating policy change, both of which have reputational risk.. There have been substantial changes to the Internal Revenue Code, some of which may have impacts materially different than current estimates.. On December 22, 2017, the United States government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"the TCJA\"), which significantly reforms the  Internal Revenue Code (\"IRC\").  The estimated impact of the TCJA in these statements is based on management's current knowledge and assumptions and recognized impacts could be different from current estimates based on actual results and further analysis of the new law.. A downgrade (or negative outlook) in or withdrawal of Vectren's credit ratings could negatively affect its ability to access capital and its cost.. The following table shows the current ratings assigned to the Company and its rated subsidiaries by Moody's and Standard & Poor's:. Current Rating     Standard   Moody's & Poor's Vectren Corporation's corporate credit rating not rated A- Utility Holdings and Indiana Gas senior unsecured debt A2 A- Utility Holdings commercial paper program P-1 A-2 SIGECO's senior secured debt Aa3 A. The current outlook for both Moody's and Standard & Poor's is stable. Both rating agencies categorize the ratings of the above securities as investment grade.  A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities.  The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  Standard & Poor's and Moody's lowest level investment grade rating is BBB- and Baa3, respectively.. If the rating agencies downgrade the Company's credit ratings, particularly below investment grade, or initiate negative outlooks thereon, or withdraw the Company's ratings or, in each case, the ratings of its subsidiaries, it may significantly limit the Company's access to the debt capital markets and the commercial paper market, and the Company's borrowing costs would likely increase.  In addition, the Company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease.  Finally, there is no assurance that the Company will have access to the equity capital markets to obtain financing when necessary or desirable.. 10. The Company will need to raise capital through additional debt financing or by issuing additional equity securities.. The Company will need to raise additional capital in the future.  Executing upon the Company's generation transition plan, as more fully discussed herein, will increase the need for the Company to raise additional capital. The Company may raise additional funds through public equity or debt offerings or other financings.  The issuance of equity securities, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock, will dilute the value of the Company's common stock.  New debt financing the Company enters into may involve covenants that restrict the Company's operations more than current outstanding debt and credit facilities.  These restrictive covenants could include limitations on additional borrowings, specific restrictions on the use of the Company's assets, as well as prohibitions or limitations on the Company's ability to create liens, pay dividends, receive distributions from subsidiaries, redeem stock, or make investments.  These factors could hinder the Company's access to capital markets and therefore limit or delay the Company's ability to carry out capital expenditures.. Utility Operating Risks. Vectren's gas and electric utility sales are concentrated in the Midwest.. The operations of the Company's regulated utilities are concentrated in central and southern Indiana and west-central Ohio and are therefore impacted by changes in the Midwest economy in general and changes in particular industries concentrated in the Midwest.  These industries include automotive assembly, parts and accessories; feed, flour and grain processing; metal castings, plastic products; gypsum products; electrical equipment, metal specialties, glass and steel finishing; pharmaceutical and nutritional products; gasoline and oil products; ethanol; and coal mining.  Changing market conditions, including changing regulation, changes in market prices of oil or other commodities, or changes in government regulation and assistance, may cause certain industrial customers to reduce or cease production and thereby decrease consumption of natural gas and/or electricity.. Vectren's regulated utilities operate in an increasingly competitive industry, which may affect its future earnings.. The utility industry has been undergoing structural change for several years, resulting in increasing competitive pressure faced by electric and gas utility companies.  Increased competition, including those from cogeneration, private generation, solar, and other renewables opportunities for customers, may create greater risks to the stability of the Company's earnings generally and may in the future reduce its earnings from retail electric and gas sales.  In this regard, the deployment and commercialization of technologies, such as private renewable energy sources, cogeneration facilities, and energy storage, have the potential to change the nature of the utility industry and reduce demand for the Company's electric and gas products and services.  If the Company is not able to appropriately adapt to structural changes in the utility industry as a result of the development of these technologies, this may have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.  Additionally, several states, including Ohio, have passed legislation that allows customers to choose their electricity supplier in a competitive market. Indiana has not enacted such legislation. Ohio regulation also provides for choice of commodity providers for all gas customers.  The Company has implemented this choice for its gas customers in Ohio.  The state of Indiana has not adopted any regulation requiring gas choice in the Company's Indiana service territories; however, the Company operates under approved tariffs permitting certain industrial and commercial large volume customers to choose their commodity supplier.  The Company cannot provide any assurance that increased competition or other changes in legislation, regulation or policies will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations.. A significant portion of Vectren's electric utility sales are space heating and cooling.  Accordingly, its operating results may fluctuate with variability of weather.. The Company's electric utility sales are sensitive to variations in weather conditions.  In this regard, many customers rely on electricity to heat and cool their homes and businesses and, as a result, the Company's results of operations may be adversely affected by warmer-than-normal heating season weather or colder-than-normal cooling season weather.  Accordingly, demand for electricity used for heating purposes is generally at its highest during the peak heating season of October through March and is directly affected by the severity of the winter weather.  The Company forecasts utility sales on the basis of normal weather.  Since the Company does not have a weather-normalization mechanism for its electric operations, significant variations. 11. from normal weather could have a material impact on its earnings.  However, the impact of weather on the gas operations in the Company's Indiana territories has been significantly mitigated through the implementation of a normal temperature adjustment mechanism.  Additionally, the implementation of a straight fixed variable rate design mitigates most weather variations related to Ohio residential and commercial gas sales.. Vectren's utilities are exposed to increasing regulation, including pipeline safety, environmental, and cybersecurity regulation.. The Company's utilities are subject to regulation by federal, state, and local regulatory authorities and are exposed to public policy decisions that may negatively impact the Company's earnings.  In particular, the Company is subject to regulation by the FERC, the NERC, the EPA, the IURC, the PUCO, the DOT, including PHMSA, the Department of Energy (DOE), the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).  These authorities regulate many aspects of its generation, transmission and distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, and safety.  In addition, the IURC, the PUCO, and the FERC approve its utility-related debt and equity issuances, regulate the rates the Company's utilities can charge customers, the rate of return the Company's utilities are authorized to earn, and their ability to timely recover gas and fuel costs and investments in infrastructure.  Further, there are consumer advocates and other parties that may intervene in regulatory proceedings and affect regulatory outcomes.. Trends Toward Stricter Standards. With the historical trend toward stricter standards, greater regulation, more extensive permit requirements, and an increase in the number and types of assets operated that are subject to regulation, the Company's investment in infrastructure and the associated operating costs have increased and may increase in the future.. Pipeline Safety Considerations. The Company monitors and maintains its natural gas distribution system to ensure that natural gas is delivered in a safe, efficient, and reliable manner. The Company's natural gas utilities are currently engaged in replacement programs in both Indiana and Ohio, the primary purpose of which is preventive maintenance and continual renewal and improvement.  The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011 (Pipeline Safety Law) was signed into law on January 3, 2012 and on March 18, 2016 PHMSA published a notice of proposed rulemaking on the safety of gas transmission and gathering lines. The rule, expected to be finalized in 2019, addresses many of the remaining requirements of the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act, with a particular focus on extending integrity management rules to address a much larger portion of the natural gas infrastructure and adds requirements to address broader threats to the integrity of a pipeline system. In December 2016, PHMSA issued interim final rules related to integrity management for storage operations. While some compliance costs remain uncertain, these rules result in further investment in pipeline inspections, and where necessary, additional investments in pipeline and storage infrastructure. As such, the rule results in increased levels of operating expenses and capital expenditures associated with the Company's natural gas distribution and transmission systems as evidenced by recent regulatory filings and resulting Commission Orders in Indiana and Ohio for Indiana Gas, SIGECO, and VEDO.. Environmental Considerations. The Company's utility operations and properties are subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations.  These environmental regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities, and obligations in connection with the storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of hazardous substances and limit airborne emissions from electric generating facilities, including particulate matter, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOx), mercury, and non-hazardous substances such as coal combustion residuals, among others.  Environmental legislation/regulation also requires that facilities, sites, and other properties associated with the Company's operations be operated, maintained, abandoned, and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities, including but not limited to a risk of potentially significant remediation costs from Company's coal ash ponds and related litigation. Once taken out of service, the Company's coal ash ponds must be closed in a manner acceptable to regulatory authorities. Ash pond remediation has been the subject of civil lawsuits for electric utilities. The Company's current costs to comply with these laws and regulations are significant to its results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, these compliance costs will substantially change the nature of the Company's generation fleet, as outlined in the Company's preferred integrated resource plan (IRP) and electric generation transition plan.. 12. Climate Change Considerations. The Company and the State of Indiana are subject to the requirements of the Clean Power Plan (CPP) rule, which requires a 32 percent reduction in carbon emissions from 2005 levels.  While implementation of the rule remains uncertain due to the U.S. Supreme Court stay that was granted in February 2016 to delay the regulation while being challenged in court and a more recent proposal from the EPA which, if finalized, would result in the repeal of the CPP, regulations as written in the final rule may substantially affect both the costs and operating characteristics of the Company's fossil fuel generating plans and natural gas distribution business. In addition to regulatory risk, the Company may be subject to climate change lawsuits which could result in substantial penalties or damages. Moreover, evolving investor sentiment related to the use of fossil fuels and initiatives to restrict continued production of fossil fuels may have substantial impacts on the Company's electric generation and natural gas distribution businesses.. Evolving Physical Security and Cybersecurity Standards and Considerations. The frequency, size and variety of physical security and cybersecurity threats against companies with critical infrastructure continues to grow, as do the evolving frameworks, standards and regulations intended to keep pace with and address these threats. There continues to be a marked increase in interest from both federal and state regulatory agencies related to physical security and cybersecurity in general, and specifically in critical infrastructure sectors, including the electric and natural gas sectors.  The Company has dedicated internal and third party physical security and cybersecurity teams and maintains vigilance with regard to the communication and assessment of physical security and cybersecurity risks and the measures employed to protect information technology assets, critical infrastructure, the Company and its customers from these threats. Physical security and cybersecurity threats, however, constantly evolve in attempts to identify and capitalize on any weakness or unprotected areas. If these measures were to fail or if a breach were to occur, it could result in impairment or loss of critical functions, operating reliability, customer, or other confidential information. The ultimate effects, which are difficult to quantify with any certainty, are partially limited through insurance.. Increasing regulation and infrastructure replacement programs could affect Vectren's utility rates charged to customers, its costs, and its profitability.. Any additional expenses or capital incurred by the Company's utilities, as it relates to complying with increasing regulation and other infrastructure replacement activities are expected to be recovered from customers in its service territories through increased rates.  Increased rates have an impact on the economic health of the communities served.  New regulations could also negatively impact industries in the Company's service territories.. The Company's utilities' ability to obtain rate increases and to maintain current authorized rates of return depends in part on continued interpretation of laws within the current regulatory framework. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to obtain rate increases, or rate supplements, or earn currently authorized rates of return. Indiana and Ohio have passed laws allowing utilities to recover a significant amount of the costs of complying with federal mandates or other infrastructure replacement expenditures, and in Ohio, other capital investments outside of a base rate proceeding. However, these activities may have a short-term adverse impact on the Company's cash flow and financial condition.. In addition, failure to comply with new or existing laws and regulations may result in fines, penalties, or injunctive measures and may not be recoverable from customers and could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Vectren's regulated energy delivery operations are subject to various risks.. A variety of hazards and operations risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, and mechanical problems, are inherent in the Company's gas and electric distribution and transmission activities.  If such events occur, they could cause substantial financial losses and result in injury to or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of operations.  The location of pipelines, storage facilities, and the electric grid near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks.  These activities may subject the Company to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time.  Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties or be resolved on unfavorable terms.  In accordance with customary industry practices, the Company maintains insurance against a significant portion, but not all, of these risks and. 13. losses. To the extent the occurrence of any of these events is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Vectren's regulated power supply operations are subject to various risks.. The Company's electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, and increased purchase power costs.  Such operational risks can arise from circumstances such as facility shutdowns due to equipment failure or operator error; interruption of fuel supply or increased prices of fuel as contracts expire; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; labor disputes; and natural disasters. Further, the Company's coal supply is purchased largely from a single, unrelated party and, although the coal supply is under long-term contract, the loss of this supplier could impact operations.. Executing the Company's electric generation transition plan is subject to various risks.. The Company's electric generation transition plan, discussed further herein, introduces the need for regulatory authority in order to provide timely recovery of new capital investments, as well as costs of retiring the current generation fleet, including decommissioning costs, costs of removal, and any remaining unrecovered costs of retired assets. Given the significance of the plan, there is inherent risk associated with the construction of new generation, including the ability to procure resources needed to build at a reasonable cost, scarcity of resources and labor, ability to appropriately estimate costs of new generation, and the effects of potential construction delays and cost overruns.  As long as the plan is prudently implemented, such risks, if they materialize, would be expected to be favorably addressed through the regulatory process. Additionally, operating risks associated with the transition plan may arise such as workforce retention, development and training, and the ability to meet capacity requirements.. The Company participates in the MISO.. The Company is a member of the MISO, which serves the electric transmission needs of much of the Midcontinent region and maintains operational control over the Company's electric transmission facilities, as well as other utilities in the region.  As a result of such control, the Company's continued ability to import power, when necessary, and export power to the wholesale market has been, and may continue to be, impacted.. The need to expend capital for improvements to the regional electric transmission system, both to the Company's facilities as well as to those facilities of adjacent utilities, over the next several years could be significant.  The Company timely recovers its investment in certain new electric transmission projects that benefit the MISO infrastructure at a FERC approved rate of return.. Also, the MISO allocates operating costs and the cost of multi-value projects throughout the region to its participating utilities such as the Company's regulated electric utility, and such costs are significant.  Adjustments to these operating costs, including adjustments that result from participants entering or leaving the MISO, could cause increases or decreases to customer bills.  The Company timely recovers its portion of MISO operating expenses as tracked costs.. Volatility in the wholesale price of natural gas, coal, and electricity could reduce earnings and working capital.. The Company's regulated operations have limited exposure to commodity price risk for transactions involving purchases and sales of natural gas, coal, and purchased power for the benefit of retail customers due to current state regulations, which, subject to compliance with those regulations, allow for recovery of the cost of such purchases through natural gas and fuel cost adjustment mechanisms.  However, significant volatility in the price of natural gas, coal, or purchased power may cause existing customers to conserve or motivate them to switch to alternate sources of energy as well as cause new home developers, builders, and new customers to select alternative sources of energy.  Decreases in volumes sold could reduce earnings.  The decrease would be more significant in the absence of constructive regulatory orders, such as those authorizing revenue decoupling, lost margin recovery, and other innovative rate designs.  A decline in new customers could impede growth in future earnings.  In addition, during periods when commodity prices are higher than historical levels, working capital costs could increase due to higher carrying costs of inventories and cost recovery mechanisms, and customers may have trouble paying. 14. higher bills leading to increased bad debt expenses.  Additionally, significant oil price fluctuations and impact on the ability to continue shale gas drilling may impact the price of natural gas and purchased power.. Increased conservation efforts and technology advances, which result in improved energy efficiency or the development of alternative energy sources, may result in reduced demand for the Company's energy products and services.. The trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and air conditioners and other heating and cooling devices as well as lighting, may reduce the demand for energy products.  Prices for natural gas are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and other market conditions.  During periods of high energy commodity costs, the Company's prices generally increase, which may lead to customer conservation.  Federal and state regulation may require mandatory conservation measures, which would reduce the demand for energy products.  Certain federal or state regulation may also impose restrictions on building construction and design in efforts to increase conservation which may reduce demand for natural gas and electricity.  In addition, the Company's customers, especially large commercial and industrial customers, may choose to employ various technological advances to develop alternative energy sources, such as the construction and development of wind power, solar technology, or electric cogeneration facilities.  Increased conservation efforts and the utilization of technological advances to increase energy efficiency or to develop alternate energy sources could lead to a reduction in demand for the Company's energy products and services, which could have an adverse effect on its revenues and overall results of operations. Similar to many states, Indiana has permitted small customers to engage in net metering for several years.  In 2017, the Indiana Legislature passed a bill that provided for the phase out of subsidies being provided to those customers. The Company has experienced some growth in these applications, but the overall level of net metering on its system remains relatively low.. Nonutility Operating Risks. The performance of Vectren's nonutility businesses is subject to certain risks.. Execution of the Company's nonutility business strategies and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities in the nonutility business area are subject to a number of risks.  These risks include, but are not limited to, the effects of weather; changing market conditions, including changes in market prices for various forms of energy; failure of installed performance contracting products to operate as planned; failure to properly estimate the cost to construct projects; loss of key management and knowledge-based employees, including the inability to attract and retain qualified employees; the inability to effectively maintain regulatory compliance programs; potential legislation or regulations that may limit CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions; operating accidents that may require environmental remediation; creditworthiness of customers and joint venture partners; changes in federal, state or local legal and regulatory requirements, such as changes in tax laws or rates; and environmental or cybersecurity regulations.. The Company's nonutility businesses support its regulated utilities pursuant to service contracts by providing infrastructure services.  In most instances, the Company's ability to maintain these service contracts depends upon regulatory discretion, and there can be no assurance it will be able to obtain future service contracts, or that existing arrangements will not be revisited.. Nonutility infrastructure services operations could be adversely affected by a number of factors.. Infrastructure Services results are dependent on a number of factors.  The industry is competitive and contracts are subject to a bidding process.  Should Infrastructure Services be unsuccessful in bidding contracts, results of operations could be impacted.  Infrastructure Services enters into a variety of contracts, some of which are fixed price.  Through competitive bidding, the volume of contracted work could vary significantly from year to year.  Further, to the extent there are unanticipated cost increases in completion of the contracted work, the profit margin realized on any single project could be reduced.  Additionally, Infrastructure Services contributes to several multiemployer pension plans under collective bargaining agreements with unions representing employees covered by those agreements.  A significant increase to the funding requirements could adversely impact financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.  Changes in legislation and regulations impacting the sectors in which the customers served by Infrastructure Services operate could impact operating results.  Other risks include, but are not limited to: failure to properly construct pipeline infrastructure; cancellation of projects by customers and/or reductions in the scope of the projects; changes in the timing of projects; the inability to obtain materials and equipment required to perform. 15. services from suppliers and manufacturers; and changes in the market prices of oil and natural gas that would affect the demand for infrastructure construction and/or the project margin realized on projects.. Nonutility energy services operations could be adversely affected by a number of factors.. Energy Services results are dependent on a number of factors.  The industry is competitive and many of the contracts are subject to a bidding process.  Should Energy Services be unsuccessful in bidding contracts for certain federal Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contracts, results of operations could be impacted.  Through competitive bidding, the volume of contracted work could vary significantly from year to year.  Further, to the extent there are unanticipated cost increases in completion of the contracted work, the profit margin realized on any single project could be reduced.  Changes in legislation, regulations and government policies impacting the customers served by Energy Services, could impact operating results.  Other risks include, but are not limited to: continuation of the federal Energy Savings Performance Contracting (ESPC) and Utility Energy Services Contract (UESC) programs; the inability of customers to finance projects; risks associated with projects owned or operated; failure to appropriately design, construct, or operate projects; and cancellation of projects by customers and/or reductions in the scope of the projects.. Other Corporate Operating Risks. Vectren is exposed to physical and financial risks related to the uncertainty of climate change.. A changing climate creates uncertainty and could result in broad changes, both physical and financial in nature, to the Company's service territories.  These impacts could include, but are not limited to, population shifts; changes in the level of annual rainfall; changes in the overall average temperature; and changes to the frequency and severity of weather events such as thunderstorms, wind, tornadoes, and ice storms that can damage infrastructure.  Such changes could impact the Company in a number of ways including the number and type of customers in the Company's service territories; an increase to the cost of providing service; an increase in the amount of service interruptions; impacts to the Company's workforce; and an increase in the likelihood of capital expenditures to replace damaged infrastructure.. To the extent climate change impacts a region's economic health, it may also impact the Company's revenues, costs, and capital structure and thus the need for changes to rates charged to regulated customers.  Rate changes themselves can impact the economic health of the communities served and may in turn adversely affect the Company's operating results.. Customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions.  To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease.  Increased energy use due to weather changes may require additional generating resources, transmission, and other infrastructure to serve increased load.  Decreased energy use may require the Company to retire current infrastructure that is no longer needed.. In Note 18 of the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, the Company discusses the upcoming 2018 sustainability report, which discusses in greater detail the Company's climate change and carbon strategy.. Vectren's nonutility operations have performance and warranty obligations, some of which are guaranteed by Vectren.. In the normal course of business, certain subsidiaries of the Company issue performance bonds and other forms of assurance that commit them to timely install infrastructure, operate facilities, pay vendors or subcontractors, and support warranty obligations.  Vectren Corporation, as the parent company, will from time to time guarantee its subsidiaries' commitments.  These guarantees do not represent incremental consolidated obligations; rather, they represent parental guarantees of subsidiary obligations in order to allow those subsidiaries the flexibility to conduct business without posting other forms of collateral.  The Company has not been called upon to satisfy any obligations pursuant to these parental guarantees.. Vectren's nonutility operations face a customer concentration risk.. From time to time, revenues and total outstanding receivables from various customers of Infrastructure Services may individually account for more than 5 percent of the Company's consolidated operating revenues and receivables, respectively. While the Company believes that the loss of any one customer would not have a material impact on its financial position or results of. 16. operations, the loss of a customer of this significance or a significant decline in related customer revenues could have an adverse effect on the results of operations and cash flows of Infrastructure Services.. From time to time, Vectren is subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings.. From time to time, the Company may be subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings, including matters involving compliance with federal and state laws, regulations or other matters.  There can be no assurance that the outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, corporate reputation, results of operations, or financial condition.. The investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could impact Vectren's liquidity and results of operations.. The costs associated with the Company sponsored retirement plans, including certain multiemployer plans at Infrastructure Services, are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets; discount rates; the level of interest rates used to measure funding levels; changes in actuarial assumptions including assumed mortality; future government regulations; changes in plan design, and Company contributions.  In addition, the Company could be required to provide for significant funding of these defined benefit pension plans.  Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on liquidity by reducing cash flows for other purposes and could negatively affect results of operations.. Catastrophic events, such as terrorist attacks, acts of civil unrest, and acts of God, may adversely affect Vectren's facilities and operations, corporate reputation, financial condition and results from operations.. Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, ice storms, tornadoes, terrorist acts, cyber attacks or similar occurrences could adversely affect the Company's facilities, operations, corporate reputation, financial condition and results of operations.  Either a direct act against Company-owned generating facilities or transmission and distribution infrastructure or an act against the infrastructure of neighboring utilities or interstate pipelines that are used by the Company to transport power and natural gas could result in the Company being unable to deliver natural gas or electricity for a prolonged period.  Additionally, an act against the Company's nonutility businesses could result in the Company being unable to provide utility infrastructure services, performance-based energy contracting services, or sustainable infrastructure services.  In the event of a severe disruption resulting from such events, the Company has contingency plans and employs crisis management to respond and recover operations. Despite these measures, if such an occurrence were to occur, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Cyber attacks or similar occurrences may adversely affect Vectren's facilities, operations, corporate reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company relies on information technology networks, telecommunications, and systems to, among other things, 1) operate its generating facilities; 2) engage in asset management and customer service activities; 3) process, transmit and store sensitive electronic information including intellectual property, proprietary business information and that of the Company's suppliers and business partners, personally identifiable information of customers and employees, and data with respect to invoicing and the collection of payments, accounting, procurement, and supply chain activities, and 4) process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements.   Despite the Company's security measures, any information technology system may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to malfeasance, employee error, sabotage, or other disruptions.  Security breaches, extended outage or general disruption of this information technology infrastructure could lead to system disruptions, business interruption, generating facility shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In particular, any data loss or information security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use or disclosure of sensitive or classified information could result in claims, remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against the Company, loss of current and future contracts, and serious harm to the Company's reputation.  While the Company has implemented policies, procedures, protective technologies, and controls to prevent and detect these activities, not all disruptions and misconduct may be prevented.  In the event of a severe infrastructure system disruption or generating facility shutdown resulting from such events, the Company has contingency plans and employs crisis management to respond and recover operations. Despite these measures, if such an attack or security breach were to. 17. occur, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  The ultimate effects, which are difficult to quantify with any certainty, are partially limited through insurance.. Workforce risks could affect Vectren's financial results.. The Company is subject to various workforce risks, including but not limited to, the risk that it will be unable to 1) attract and retain qualified and diverse personnel; 2) effectively transfer the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce to new personnel as those workers retire; 3) react to a pandemic illness; 4) manage the migration to more defined contribution employee benefit packages; and 5) that it will be unable to reach collective bargaining arrangements with the unions that represent certain of its workers, which could result in work stoppages.. Vectren's ability to effectively manage its third party contractors, agents, and business partners could have a significant impact on the Company's business and reputation.. The Company relies on third party contractors and other agents and business partners to perform some of the services provided to its customers, as well as assist with the monitoring of physical security and cybersecurity functions.  Any misconduct by these third parties, or the Company's inability to properly manage them, could adversely impact the provision of services to customers and the quality of services provided.  Misconduct could include fraud or other improper activities, such as falsifying records and violations of laws.  Other examples could include the failure to comply with the Company's policies and procedures or with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the use and safeguarding of classified or other protected information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, laws and regulations relating to environmental, health or safety matters, lobbying or similar activities, and any other applicable laws or regulations.  Any data loss or information security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use or disclosure of sensitive or classified information could result in claims, remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against the Company, loss of current and future contracts, and serious harm to its reputation.  Although the Company has implemented policies, procedures, and controls to prevent and detect these activities, these precautions may not prevent all misconduct, and as a result, the Company could face unknown risks or losses.  The Company's failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or misconduct by any of its contractors, agents, or business partners could damage its reputation and subject it to fines and penalties, restitution or other damages, loss of current and future customer contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with federal, state or local government agencies, any of which would adversely affect the business and future results.. Vectren may not have adequate insurance coverage for all potential liabilities.. Natural risks, as well as other hazards associated with the Company's operations, can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The Company maintains an amount of insurance protection management believes is appropriate, but there can be no assurance that the amount of insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which the Company may be subject. A claim for which the Company is not adequately insured could materially harm the Company's financial condition. Further, due to the cyclical nature of the insurance markets, management cannot provide assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms similar to those presently in place.. Emerging technologies may create disruption to utility services.. New and emerging technology may enable new approaches or choices for capacity and energy services that pressure or even disrupt how utilities provide services. Commercial technologies that successfully advance \"electrifying\" aspects of the economy such as transportation or space heating could negatively impact the demand for the Company's utility natural gas delivery and nonutility infrastructure services business. The Company may be unable to quickly adapt to rapid change resulting from artificial intelligence, blockchain, Internet of Things (IoT) and other advanced technologies that may result in a reduction in demand for utility services or disruptive changes for how customers select their energy sources. The Company's inclusion of fossil fuels in its portfolio may be viewed by some customers and capital markets as reason to select other energy options which new technology may enable.. 18"
