[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider each of the following risks, which we believe are the principal risks that we face and of which we are currently aware, and all of the other information in this report. Some of the risks described below relate to our business, while others relate to the Spin-off. Other risks relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our common stock.. Should any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We face the following risks in connection with the business and industry in which we operate:. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a few large contracts, and the loss or material reduction of any of these contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Aggregate revenue from our two largest contracts amounted to approximately $0.6 billion, or 57.9%, of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, our two largest contracts were the K-BOSSS and the OMDAC-SWACA contracts.  The K-BOSSS contract is exercised through March 28, 2018 with an evaluated nine-month option of March 29, 2018 through December 28, 2018 and an evaluated three-month option of December 29, 2018 through March 28, 2019. The right to exercise an option period is at the sole discretion of the U.S. government. Performance on the OMDAC-SWACA contact commenced in July 2013 with a base period of 11 months and four option years. The U.S. government has exercised four option years, which run through May 2018. The U.S. government has stated that its anticipated timeline for the re-competition award for this contract is for the solicitation to be released in February 2019 and performance to commence sometime in 2019. These two contracts each accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. Our results of operations and cash flows are highly dependent on these contracts. The loss or material reduction of either of these contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash. 13. Table of Contents. flows.  See \"Recent Developments\" and  \"Significant Contracts\" in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. Competition within our markets may reduce our revenue and market share.. Our business is highly competitive, and we compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, greater financial resources, and larger technical staffs. Within our industry, companies have engaged in merger and acquisition activity, with a goal to increase their competitive position. Our competitors may be able to provide our customers with different or greater capabilities or better contract terms than we can provide, including past contract experience, geographic presence, price, and the availability of qualified professional personnel. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on a government contract, we may not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to assist small businesses and other designated classifications of business, such as under-represented minority contractors. In addition, our competitors may consolidate or establish teaming or other relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customers' needs. Accordingly, larger or new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge that may adversely affect our ability to compete. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenue and market share, which could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. We are dependent on the U.S. government and, if our reputation or relationship with the U.S. government was harmed, our revenue and growth prospects could be adversely affected.. All of our 2017, 2016, and 2015 revenue was derived from services ultimately sold to the U.S. government, primarily the DoD, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor to other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we generated approximately 82% of our total revenue from the U.S. Army. We expect to continue to derive all or most of our revenue from work performed under U.S. government contracts. Our reputation and relationship with the U.S. government, and in particular with the branches and agencies of the DoD, are key factors in maintaining and growing this revenue. Negative press reports or publicity, which could pertain to employee or subcontractor misconduct, conflicts of interest, termination of a contract or task order, poor contract performance, deficiencies in services, reports or other deliverables, information security breaches, business system disapprovals, or other aspects of our business, regardless of accuracy, could harm our reputation, particularly with these branches and agencies. If our reputation is negatively affected, we lose our ability to conduct business in a foreign country (e.g., loss of business license), we lose a required security clearance, or we are suspended or debarred from contracting with government agencies or any branch of the DoD for any reason, the amount of our business with the U.S. government and other customers could decrease and our future revenue and growth prospects could be adversely affected.. We may not be successful in winning new contracts, which could have an adverse impact on our business and prospects.. Our contracts with the federal government are typically awarded through a competitive bidding process.  This competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including the following:. • We may bid on programs for which the work activities, deliverables, and timelines are vague or for which the solicitation incompletely describes the actual work, which may result in inaccurate pricing assumptions;. • We may incur substantial costs and spend a significant amount of managerial time and effort preparing bids and proposals; and. • We may incur the opportunity cost of not bidding on and winning other contracts that we may have pursued otherwise.. Because our contracts are typically for a fixed duration, if we are unable to win a particular new contract, we may be prevented from providing the customer the services that are purchased under that contract for a number of years.  If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards, our business and prospects will be adversely affected, and our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. 14. Table of Contents. U.S. government contracts are only partially funded, and the termination, expiration or non-renewal of our existing U.S. government contracts may adversely affect our business.. The U.S. government services marketplace is characterized by contracts of shorter duration as compared to large production and systems integration programs. U.S. government services contracts generally are of a finite duration of five years and usually range between three and ten years. The U.S. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend across several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as the U.S. Congress approves further appropriations. The termination or reduction of funding for a U.S. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business.. Prior to the expiration of a contract, if the customer requires further services of the type provided by the contract, it typically begins a competitive rebidding or recompete process. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew or replace our current contracts upon expiration or completion. As contracts are recompeted, the scope, scale or profitability or other contract elements of the new contract could materially differ from the original contract. In addition, the U.S. government may terminate any of our government contracts, in whole or in part, at any time at its convenience with little or no notice. Additionally, the U.S. government may terminate our contracts for default if we fail to meet our obligations under a contract. If any of our contracts were to be terminated for convenience, we generally would be entitled to receive payment for work completed and allowable termination or cancellation costs. If any of our government contracts were to be terminated for default, generally the customer would pay us only for the work that has been accepted; moreover, the customer can require us to pay the difference between the original contract price and the cost to re-procure the contract deliverables, net of the work accepted from the original contract. In addition, the U.S. government can also hold us liable for damages resulting from the default.. The expiration, non-renewal or termination of any of our government contracts, whether for convenience or default, would adversely affect our current programs and reduce our revenue, earnings and cash flows. A termination for default may also negatively affect our reputation, performance ratings and our ability to win new contracts, particularly for contracts covering the same or similar types of services.. Our business could be adversely affected by bid protests.. We may experience additional costs and delays if our competitors protest or challenge awards of contracts to us in competitive bidding.  Any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract.  It can take a significant amount of time to resolve contract protests and, in the interim, the contracting U.S. federal agency may suspend our performance under the contract pending the outcome of the protest.  For example, in October 2014, a Danish subsidiary of Vectrus received notice of an award of the THULE contract, which was protested by three competitors. Following a lengthy litigation process, the cases related to the THULE contract award protests were dismissed in October 2016. In January 2017, the Court of Federal Claims granted one protestor's motion for reconsideration to address two claims that were not expressly ruled upon in the court's dismissal of the case in October 2016. In April 2017, the court denied the protestor's motions and entered judgment in favor of the U.S. government and our Danish subsidiary. Our Danish subsidiary began full contract operations on October 1, 2017.. In addition, we may protest the contract awards of our competitors when we believe it is prudent to do so to protect our rights and interest in the competition, such as our protest of the K-BOSSS award in October 2016 with the GAO. This process requires the time, effort and attention of our management and employees and incurs additional costs.. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or our failure to comply with these regulations.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and must comply with many significant procurement regulations and other requirements. These regulations and requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. If any such regulations or procurement requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and therefore reduce our margins. Some significant statutes and regulations that affect us include:. • The FAR and department or agency-specific regulations that implement or supplement the FAR, such as the DoD's DFARS, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts;. • The Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations;. 15. Table of Contents. • The Procurement Integrity Act, which regulates access to competitor bid and proposal information and government source selection information, and our ability to provide compensation to certain former government officials;. • The Civil False Claims Act, which provides for substantial civil penalties, including claims for treble damages, for violations, including for submission of a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. government for payment or approval; and. • The U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS), which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts.. If we are found to have violated these or other laws or regulations, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by them, we may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts; contract modifications or terminations; the assessment of penalties and fines, compensatory damages or treble damages; or suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our business is subject to audits, reviews, cost adjustments, and investigations by the U.S. government, which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could adversely affect our profitability, cash position or growth prospects.. U.S. government agencies, including the DCAA, the DCMA and others, routinely audit and review our performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices, and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of our compliance with government standards for our business systems, including our accounting, purchasing, government property, estimating, and related business systems.. Both contractors and the U.S. government agencies conducting these audits and reviews have come under increased scrutiny. As a result, audits and reviews have become more rigorous and the standards to which we are held are being more strictly interpreted and applied, increasing the likelihood of an audit or review resulting in an adverse outcome. These audits and reviews, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. In addition, delays in audits or reviews by U.S. government agencies may increase the time and effort required for us to prepare responses and provide data.. Government audits or other reviews could result in adjustments to contract costs, mandatory customer refunds, or decreased billings to our U.S. government customers until the deficiencies identified in the audits or reviews are corrected and our corrections are accepted by DCMA. Such adjustments could be applied retroactively, which could result in significant customer refunds. A determination of non-compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards could result in the U.S. government imposing penalties and sanctions against us, including withholding of payments, suspension of payments and increased government scrutiny that could delay or adversely affect our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on contracts, perform contracts or compete for contracts. Non-compliance by us could result in our being placed on the \"Excluded Parties List\" maintained by the General Services Administration, and we could become ineligible to receive certain contracts, subcontracts and other benefits from the U.S. government or to perform work under a government contract or subcontract until the basis for the listing has been appropriately addressed. In addition, the U.S. government, from time to time, may require its contractors to reduce certain contract prices, or may disallow costs allocated to certain contracts. These adjustments can involve substantial amounts. In the past, as a result of such audits and other investigations and inquiries, we have on occasion made adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts.. We are routinely subjected to governmental investigations relating to our contracts and operations. If a review or investigation identifies improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including the termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, the triggering of price reduction clauses, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with governmental agencies. Civil penalties and sanctions are not uncommon in our industry. If we incur a material penalty or administrative sanction, our reputation, business, results of operations, and future prospects could be adversely affected.. 16. Table of Contents. We rely on our information and communications systems in our operations. Security breaches and other disruptions could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. As a U.S. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including cybersecurity threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to proprietary or classified information, and threats to physical security. In connection with the information technology and network communications services that we provide to our customers, we also may encounter cybersecurity threats at customer sites that we operate. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Cybersecurity threats are significant and evolving and include, among others, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. In addition to security threats, we are also subject to other systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, natural disasters, power shortages, terrorist attacks or other events. The unavailability of our information or communications systems, the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated or any significant breach of data security could cause loss of data, disrupt our operations, lead to financial losses from remedial actions, require significant management attention and resources, subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, penalties or contract termination, and negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption.. Our systems are decentralized, which presents various risks, including the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting a business function than we would be in a more centralized environment. In addition, \"company-wide\" business initiatives, such as the integration of information technology systems or the formation of a technology system impacting different parts of our business, are often more challenging and costly to implement, and carry a higher risk of failure, than they would be in a more centralized environment. Depending on the nature of the initiative in question, such failure could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although preventative measures may help mitigate the damage from such occurrences, the damage and disruption to our business resulting from any of these events may be significant. If our insurance and other risk mitigation mechanisms are not sufficient to recover the costs, we could experience an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We continue to evaluate the need to upgrade and/or replace our systems and network infrastructure to protect our computing environment, to stay current on vendor supported products, to improve the effectiveness of our systems, strengthen cybersecurity requirements and improve the efficiency of our systems. The implementation of new systems and information technology could adversely impact our operations by imposing substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems. In addition, our systems implementations may not result in productivity improvements at the levels anticipated. Systems implementation disruption and any other information technology disruption, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. As a U.S. entity operating in multiple European countries, we are also subject to regulatory compliance requirements under the European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that require our business to comply with security and privacy controls to protect personal data and privacy of EU citizens for transactions that occur within EU member states.  A failure to comply with the requirements could negatively impact our business and financial condition.. As a U.S. government contractor, we are also subject to regulatory compliance requirements under the DFARS and other federal regulations that require our IT systems to comply with the security and privacy controls in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171 (NIST 800-171). We may also be responsible if our subcontractors do not comply with these requirements. A failure to comply with the requirements could negatively impact our business and financial condition.. Many of the systems and networks that we develop, install and maintain for our customers involve managing and protecting personal information and information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions. While we have programs designed to comply with relevant privacy and security laws and restrictions, if a system or network that we develop, install or maintain were to fail or experience a security breach or service interruption, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, cybersecurity threats or other events, we may experience loss of revenue, remediation costs or face claims for damages or contract termination. Any such event could prevent us from having access to or being eligible for further work on such systems and networks and cause serious harm to our reputation. Our errors and omissions liability insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all of the damages that we may incur and, as a result, our future results could be adversely affected.. 17. Table of Contents. We may make or enter into acquisitions, investments and joint ventures that involve numerous risks and uncertainties.. We may selectively pursue strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures, such as our acquisition of SENTEL in January 2018. These transactions require significant investment of time and resources and may disrupt our business and distract our management from other responsibilities. Even if successful, these transactions could reduce earnings for a number of reasons, including the amortization of intangible assets, impairment charges, acquired operations that are not yet profitable or the payment of additional consideration under earn-out arrangements if an acquisition performs better than expected. If we engage in such transactions, we may incur significant transaction and integration costs and have difficulty integrating personnel, operations, products or technologies or otherwise realizing synergies or other benefits from the transactions. The integration process could result in the loss of key employees, loss of key customers, loss of key vendors, decreases in revenue and increases in operating costs. In addition, we may assume material liabilities in an acquisition, including liabilities that are unknown as of the time of the acquisition. Such transactions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, perform poorly, subject us to liabilities, and increase our risk of litigation, all of which could harm our business.. Misconduct of our employees, subcontractors, agents, prime contractors or business partners could cause us to lose customers and could have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation, adversely affecting our ability to obtain new contracts.. Misconduct, fraud or other improper activities by our employees, subcontractors, agents, prime contractors or business partners could have a material adverse impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with federal, state, local or foreign government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified or personal information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, laws and regulations relating to environmental matters, bribery of foreign government officials, lobbying or similar activities, boycotts, antitrust and any other applicable laws or regulations. Misconduct involving data security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use of our customer's sensitive or classified information could result in remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls that are designed to prevent and detect these activities, these precautions may not prevent all misconduct and as a result, we could face unknown risks or losses. Misconduct by any of our employees, subcontractors, agents, prime contractors or business partners or our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, loss of current and future customer contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with federal, state or local government agencies, any of which would adversely affect our business, our reputation and our future financial results.. Uncertainties in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities or delays in contract awards may significantly and adversely affect our future revenue and limit our growth prospects.. Our contracts and revenue primarily depend upon the U.S. DoD budget, which is subject to the congressional budget authorization and appropriations process and is difficult to project. The U.S. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year basis, even though contract periods of performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress in future fiscal years. DoD budgets are a function of a number of factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in U.S. procurement policies, budget considerations, current and future economic conditions, presidential administration and congressional priorities, changing national security and defense requirements, geopolitical developments and actual fiscal year congressional appropriations for defense budgets. Any of these factors could result in a significant redirection of current and future DoD budgets and impact our future operations and cash flows. Such factors may have direct bearing on our new business opportunities as well as on whether the U.S. government will exercise its options for services under existing contracts, thus affecting the timing and volume of our business.. The U.S. government also conducts periodic reviews of U.S. defense strategies and priorities, which may shift DoD budgetary priorities, reduce overall U.S. government spending or delay contract or task order awards for defense related programs. A reduction in U.S. government defense spending could potentially reduce our future revenue and earnings and have a material impact on our business. Delays in the completion of the U.S. government's budget process could delay procurement of the services we provide and have an adverse effect on our business.. 18. Table of Contents. We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.. Revenue from our contracts is recognized primarily using the percentage-of-completion method or on the basis of partial performance towards completion. These methodologies require estimates of total contract revenue, total costs at completion, and fees earned on the contract. Contract estimates are based on various assumptions to project the outcome of future events that often span several years. These assumptions include labor productivity and availability; the complexity of the work to be performed; the cost and availability of materials; and the performance of subcontractors. This estimation process, particularly due to the nature of the services being performed and the long-term nature of certain contracts, is complex and involves significant judgment. Adjustments to original estimates are often required as work progresses, experience is gained and additional information becomes known, even though the scope of the work required under the contract may not change. Any adjustment as a result of a change in estimates is recognized as additional information becomes known. Changes in the underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could result in adjustments that may adversely affect our future financial results. Beginning in 2018, our revenue recognition will be impacted by our adoption of a comprehensive new revenue recognition accounting standard. Refer to Note 2, \"Recent Accounting Pronouncements\" and Note 3, \"Adoption of ASC Topic 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers\" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.. We are subject to risks associated with operating internationally.. Our U.S. government contracts operating internationally represented approximately 85% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. We are subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, business compliance, tax and anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We also employ international personnel and engage with foreign subcontractors and labor brokers, which requires compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations related to labor, benefits, taxes, insurance and reporting requirements, among others. Failure by us or our subcontractors or vendors to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, suspension or debarment from government contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our business operations are also subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including, without limitation:. • Political instability in foreign countries;. • Terrorist activity by various groups in the areas in which we operate;. • Imposition of inconsistent foreign laws, regulations or policies or changes in or interpretations of such laws, regulations or policies;. • Currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and foreign exchange rates, and currency revaluations;. • Conducting business in places where laws, business practices and customs are unfamiliar or unknown; and. • Imposition of limitations on or increases in withholding and other taxes on payments by foreign operations.. The services we provide internationally, including through the use of subcontractors, are sometimes in countries with unstable governments, in areas of military conflict, in hostile and unstable environments, including war zones, or at military installations. This increases the risk of an incident resulting in damage or destruction to our work or living sites or resulting in injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties. We maintain insurance to mitigate risk and potential liabilities related to our international operations, but our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover these claims and liabilities and we may be forced to bear substantial costs arising from those claims. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but any one or more of them could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $79.0 million of aggregate debt outstanding, which consists of a term loan (See Note 7, \"Debt,\" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). We also have the ability to incur up to $120.0 million of additional debt under our revolving credit facility.  Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. Our ability to generate cash is subject to our performance and to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. 19. Table of Contents. If we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional debt or equity on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive, if we can obtain it at all. If we raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the preferred stock may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. Our credit agreement contains covenants with which we must comply or risk default.. Our credit agreement contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to create liens and encumbrances; incur additional indebtedness; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions, investments, advances or loans; dispose of or transfer assets; pay dividends or make other payments in respect of our capital stock; redeem or repurchase capital stock or prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; enter into speculative hedging arrangements; and enter into certain restrictive agreements.. These restrictions could impair our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interests. In addition, the credit agreement also requires us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios, including those relating to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and consolidated indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these ratios and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of the credit agreement or our inability to comply with or renegotiate the required financial ratios or covenants included therein could result in a default under the credit agreement and cause acceleration of the outstanding debt.. Our variable rate indebtedness may expose us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt costs to increase significantly.. Our term loan and any revolving facility borrowings we may incur have variable rates of interest, which expose us to interest rate risks and to the risk of rising interest rates. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $79.0 million outstanding under our floating-rate term loan and the ability to incur up to $120.0 million of additional floating-rate debt under our revolving facility.  Although we have hedged a portion of our exposure to interest rate risk under the term loan through an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $31.6 million at December 31, 2017, if interest rates increase in the future, then the interest expense on the variable rate debt could increase materially.. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional U.S. and foreign tax liabilities could affect our profitability.. We are subject to various taxes, including but not limited to income, gross receipts and payroll withholding taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision or benefit for taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and enforcement, could result in higher or lower taxes assessed or changes in the taxability of certain revenue or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our tax expense and profitability. The Tax Cut and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017. We are still evaluating the impact of the Tax Act on our income tax expense in future years.  See Note 4, \"Income Taxes,\" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. In addition, we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our revenue could also impact our tax liabilities and affect our overall tax expense and profitability.. Our contract sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. Failure to maintain safe work sites and equipment could result in environmental disasters, employee deaths or injuries, reduced profitability, the loss of projects or customers and possible exposure to litigation.. Our project sites often put our employees and others in close proximity with mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, and highly regulated materials. Although we have safety procedures in place, if we fail to implement them or if the procedures we implement are ineffective, we may suffer the loss of or injury to our employees, as well as expose ourselves to possible litigation. As a result, our failure to maintain adequate safety standards and equipment, as well as the nature of the environment in which we conduct business, could result in the loss of projects or customers, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may not realize as revenue the full amounts reflected in our backlog, which could adversely affect our future revenue and growth.. As of December 31, 2017, our total backlog was $2.9 billion, which included $718.8 million in funded backlog. We may not realize the full amount of our backlog as revenue, particularly unfunded backlog and future services where the. 20. Table of Contents. customer has an option to decline our continued services under a contract. In addition, there can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenue in any particular period. Our receipt of revenue, and the timing and amount of revenue under contracts included in our backlog are subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, including congressional appropriations. In particular, delays in the completion of the U.S. government's budgeting process and the use of continuing resolutions could adversely affect our ability to recognize revenue timely under the contracts included in our backlog. Furthermore, the actual receipt of revenue from contracts included in our backlog may never occur or may be delayed because:. • a program schedule could change or the program could be canceled; a contract's funding or scope could be reduced, modified, delayed, or terminated early, including as a result of a lack of appropriated funds or as a result of cost cutting initiatives and other efforts to reduce U.S. government spending or the automatic federal defense spending cuts required by sequestration;. • in the case of funded backlog, the period of performance for the contract has expired; or. • in the case of unfunded backlog, funding may not be available; or, in the case of priced options, our clients may not exercise their options.. Our earnings and margins depend, in part, on subcontractor performance.. We rely on other companies to perform some of the services that we provide to our customers. Disruptions or performance problems caused by our subcontractors could have an adverse effect on our ability as a prime contractor or higher tier subcontractor to meet our commitments to customers.. We may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, proper invoicing, cost reasonableness, allocability, allowability, the hiring of each other's personnel, adjustments to the scope of the subcontractor's work, or the subcontractor's failure to comply with applicable law or regulations. Uncertain economic conditions heighten the risk of financial stress of our subcontractors, which could adversely impact their ability to meet their contractual requirements to us. If any of our subcontractors fail to timely meet their contractual obligations or have regulatory compliance or other problems, our ability to fulfill our obligations may be jeopardized. Significant losses could arise in future periods and subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in our termination for default.. Our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts, our performance, and our ability to control costs.. We generate revenue under various types of contracts, which include cost-plus, cost-reimbursable (including non-fee-bearing costs) and firm-fixed-price. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenue derived from each type of contract, the nature of services provided, as well as the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Cost-reimbursable contracts generally have lower profitability than firm-fixed-price contracts.. Our profitability is adversely affected when we incur contract costs that we cannot bill to our customers. To varying degrees, each of our contract types involves some risk that we could underestimate the costs and resources necessary to fulfill the contract. While firm-fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, these contracts also increase our exposure to the risk of cost overruns. Revenue derived from firm-fixed-price contracts represented approximately 27% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. When making proposals on firm-fixed-price contracts, we rely heavily on our estimates of costs and timing for completing the associated projects, as well as assumptions regarding technical issues. In each case, our failure to accurately estimate costs or the resources needed to perform our contracts or to effectively manage and control our costs during the performance of our work could result in reduced profits or in losses. If we incur costs in excess of initial estimates or funding on a contract, we generally seek reimbursement for those costs, but we may not be able to negotiate full recovery for these costs. More generally, any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of our contracts, including costs and delays caused by contractual disputes or other factors outside of our control, such as performance failures of our subcontractors, natural disasters or other force majeure events, could make our contracts less profitable than expected or unprofitable. The U.S. and other countries also may experience increases in inflation. A significant increase in inflation rates could adversely impact the profitability of these contracts.. The failure to perform to customer expectations or contract requirements may result in reduced fees or claims made against us by our customers and may affect our financial performance in that period. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected, particularly if we are unable to justify an increase in. 21. Table of Contents. contract value to our customers. Cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to retain existing programs and win future contract awards.. The DoD continues to modify its business practices, which could have a material effect on its overall procurement processes and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards.. The DoD continues to pursue various initiatives designed to gain efficiencies and to focus and enhance business practices. These initiatives and resulting changes, such as increased usage of firm-fixed-price contracts, where we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses, multiple award IDIQ contracts and small and disadvantaged business set-aside contracts, are having an impact on the contracting environment in which we do business. Any of these changes could impact our ability to obtain new contracts or renew our existing contracts when those contracts are recompeted. These initiatives, such as IDIQ contracts, continue to evolve, and the full impact to our business remains uncertain and subject to the manner in which the DoD implements them. As a result of these initiatives, our profit margins on future contracts may be reduced and may require us to make sustained efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenue and profits under our contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we incur, our profitability on our contracts will be negatively impacted. Any new contracting requirements or procurement methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and could adversely affect our future revenue, profitability and prospects.. Goodwill represents a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations.. At December 31, 2017, our goodwill was approximately $216.9 million, which represented approximately 43.8% of our total assets. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. We estimate the fair value of the reporting unit used in the goodwill impairment test using an income approach and market approach, and as a result the fair value measurements depend on revenue growth rates, future operating margin assumptions, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions, and identification of appropriate market comparable data. Because of the significance of our goodwill, any future impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price.. As a public company, we are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm as to whether we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal controls over financial reporting as of the last day of the year. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are also required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting systems and resources. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal or disclosure controls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our profitability or performance could suffer if we are unable to recruit and retain qualified personnel or if we are unable to maintain adequate staffing levels for our contracts.. Due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified technical, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. In addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain contracts or perform certain tasks. The loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees or the delay in hiring key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, our profitability is affected by how efficiently we utilize our workforce, including our ability to transition employees from completed contracts to new assignments, to hire and assimilate new employees; to hire personnel in or timely deploy expatriates to foreign countries; to manage attrition and a subcontractor workforce; and to devote time and resources to training, business development, professional development and other non-chargeable activities.. 22. Table of Contents. Our business depends upon obtaining and maintaining required facility security clearance and individual security clearances.. Many of our federal government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances complying with U.S. government requirements. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process and it can be difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances or if our employees who hold security clearances terminate employment with us, our ability to perform the work under the contract may be negatively affected, and the customer whose work requires cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, many of the contracts on which we bid require us to maintain a facility security clearance. To the extent we are not able to maintain a facility security clearance, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively re-bid on expiring contracts.. Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, and our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.. Approximately 2,500 of our employees, or approximately 37% of our employee base at December 31, 2017, are unionized. We have 19 collective bargaining agreements with labor unions. We cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. In addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Work stoppages by our union employees could negatively impact our ability to provide services to our customers on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Legal disputes could require us to pay potentially large damage awards and could be costly to defend, which would adversely affect our cash balances and profitability, and could damage our reputation.. We are subject to a number of lawsuits and claims as described under Part I, Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings,\" in this report. We are also subject to, and may become a party to, a variety of other litigation or claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse judgments or settlements in some or all of these legal disputes may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. Any claims or litigation could be costly to defend, and even if we are successful or if fully indemnified or insured, could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future.. Environmental, health and safety issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.. We are subject to federal, state, local, and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing: air emissions; discharges to water; the management, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous wastes, petroleum, and other regulated substances; the investigation and cleanup of contaminated property; and the maintenance of a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, contractors, and visitors. These laws and their implementing regulations can impose certain operational controls for minimization of pollution, permitting, training, recordkeeping, monitoring and reporting requirements or other operational or siting constraints on our business, result in costs to remediate releases of regulated substances into the environment, or require costs to remediate sites to which we sent regulated substances for disposal. We have incurred and will continue to incur operating, maintenance and other expenditures as a result of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Developments such as the adoption of new environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments under previously priced contracts, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.. Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from claims or losses.. We maintain insurance coverage with third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. However, not every risk or liability is or can be protected by insurance, and, for those risks we insure, the limits of coverage we purchase or that are reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. If any of our third-party insurers fail, cancel our coverage or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage, then our overall risk exposure and our operational expenses would increase and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from significant warranty and other liability claims or losses. Moreover, there is a risk that commercially available liability insurance will not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. If liability claims or losses exceed our current or available insurance coverage, our business and prospects may be harmed. We are also subject to the requirements of the Defense Base Act (DBA), which generally requires insurance coverage to be. 23. Table of Contents. provided to persons employed at U.S. military bases outside of the U.S. Failure to obtain DBA insurance may result in fines or other sanctions, including the loss of a particular contract.. Business disruptions caused by natural disasters and other crises could adversely affect our profitability and our overall financial position.. We have operations located in regions of the U.S. and internationally that may be exposed to natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, flooding, wildfires or earthquakes. Our business could also be disrupted by pandemics and other national or international crises. Although preventative measures may help mitigate the damage from such occurrences, the damage and disruption to our business resulting from any of these events may be significant. If our insurance and other risk mitigation mechanisms are not sufficient to recover all costs, including loss of revenue from sales to customers, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We depend on our teaming arrangements and relationships with other contractors. If we are not able to maintain these relationships, or if these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or the customer, our revenue, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected.. We rely on our teaming relationships and other arrangements with other prime contractors or subcontractors in order to submit bids for large procurements or other opportunities where we believe the combination of services provided by us and the other companies will help us to win and perform the contract. Our future revenue and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their contract relationships with us, or if the U.S. government terminates or reduces these other contractors' programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract.. Government withholding regulations could adversely affect our operating performance.. A DFARS rule allows withholding of a percentage of payments when a contractor's business system has one or more significant deficiencies. The DFARS rule applies to CAS covered contracts that have the DFARS clause in the contract terms and conditions. Contracting officers may withhold 5% of contract payments for one or more significant deficiencies in any single contractor business system or up to 10% of contract payments for significant deficiencies in multiple contractor business systems. A significant deficiency as defined by the DoD is a \"shortcoming in the system that materially affects the ability of officials of the DoD to rely upon information produced by the system that is needed for management purposes.\" If we have significant deficiencies and contract payments are withheld, our revenue and financial position may be adversely affected.. The effects of changes in worldwide economic and capital markets conditions may significantly affect our ability to maintain liquidity or procure capital.. Our business may be adversely affected by factors in the U.S. and other countries that are beyond our control, such as disruptions in financial markets or downturns in economic activity in specific countries or regions, or in the various industries in which our company operates; social, political or labor conditions in specific countries or regions; or adverse changes in the availability and cost of capital, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, tax rates, or regulations in the jurisdictions in which our company operates. If we lose access to our revolving credit facility, or if we are required to raise additional capital, we may be unable to do so in the current credit and stock market environment, or we may be able to do so only on unfavorable terms.. Adverse changes to financial conditions also could jeopardize certain counterparty obligations, including those of our insurers and financial institutions and other third parties.. Risks Relating to the Spin-off from Our Former Parent. We face the following risks in connection with the Spin-off from our Former Parent:. In connection with the Spin-off, we and our Former Parent have each agreed to a broad release of claims and indemnification of the other party; we may be required to expend cash and resources to satisfy our indemnification obligations to our Former Parent and there is no assurance that our Former Parent's indemnities to us will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that our Former Parent will have the ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us in the future.. In the Distribution Agreement that we and our Former Parent entered into in connection with the Spin-off, our Former Parent agreed to indemnify us from certain claims and liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify our Former Parent for certain claims and liabilities as discussed further in Note 16, \"Agreements with Former Parent\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Indemnities that we are required to provide our Former Parent may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly those indemnities relating to our actions that could impact. 24. Table of Contents. the tax-free nature of the Spin-off. Third-parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that our Former Parent has agreed to retain. Further, there can be no assurance that the indemnity from our Former Parent will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that our Former Parent will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from our Former Parent any amounts for which we are held liable, we may have to bear these losses ourselves until we receive these payments. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our historical financial information has been derived in part from the financial information of our Former Parent, and our historical financial information may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.. The historical financial information we have included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for periods prior to the Spin-off has been derived in part from the consolidated financial statements of our Former Parent and does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been as a separate, stand-alone entity. Our Former Parent did not account for us, and we were not operated, as a single stand-alone entity for certain of the periods presented even if we represented an important business in the historical consolidated financial statements of our Former Parent. In addition, the historical information is not necessarily indicative of our future results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. The Spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.. The Spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. An unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that our Former Parent did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the Spin-off, and that the Spin-off left our Former Parent insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that our Former Parent intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. If a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the Spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, including without limitation, returning our assets or your shares in our company to our Former Parent or providing our Former Parent with a claim for money damages against us in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by our Former Parent and the fair market value of our company at the time of the Spin-off.. The distribution by our Former Parent of the Vectrus common stock in the Spin-off could also be challenged under state corporate distribution statutes. Under the Indiana Business Corporation Law, a corporation may not make distributions to its shareholders if, after giving effect to the distribution, (i) the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business; or (ii) the corporation's total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities. No assurance can be given that a court will not later determine that the distribution by our Former Parent of Vectrus common stock in the Spin-off was unlawful.. Under the Distribution Agreement, we are responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses which we own and operate following the consummation of the Spin-off. Although we do not expect to be liable for any obligations not expressly assumed by us pursuant to the Distribution Agreement, it is possible that we could be required to assume responsibility for certain obligations retained by our Former Parent if our Former Parent fails to pay or perform its retained obligations.. We may be subject to potential adjustments to costs previously allocated by our Former Parent to our business.. As a result of final indirect rate negotiations between the U.S. government and our Former Parent, we may be subject to potential adjustments to costs previously allocated by our Former Parent to our business, which was formerly Exelis' Mission Systems Business, from 2007 through 2014. As we do not participate in indirect rate negotiations between the U.S. government and our Former Parent, we cannot predict the outcome of any negotiated adjustment or the ultimate responsible party. Accordingly, we cannot reasonably predict the likelihood of such adjustments or estimate the amount of any potential impact to us.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. You face the following risks in connection with ownership of our common stock:. We do not currently plan to pay dividends on our common stock, and our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock in the future.. We do not currently plan to pay dividends on our common stock. The declaration of any future cash dividends and, if declared, the amount of any such dividends, will be subject to our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, financial covenants and other contractual restrictions and to the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors may take. 25. Table of Contents. into account such matters as general business conditions, industry practice, our financial condition and performance, our future prospects, our cash needs and capital investment plans, income tax consequences, applicable law and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant.. Additionally, our indebtedness could have important consequences for holders of our common stock. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the Board of Directors, will be impaired. In addition, the terms of the agreements governing our current debt limit the payment of dividends and debt that we may incur in the future may also limit the payment of dividends.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Indiana law could delay or prevent a change in control.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable. For example, the amended and restated articles of incorporation and the amended and restated by-laws, among other things, provide for a classified board and do not permit shareholders to convene special meetings or to remove our directors other than for cause. In addition, the amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock and us as well as certain restrictions on the voting rights of \"control shares\" of an \"issuing public corporation.\""
