[1] "ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors. This section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. It does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, or any other risks and uncertainties that are not addressed below or that we have not yet identified, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline.. We have grouped these risk factors into three general categories:. • Risks arising from our business;. • Risks arising from our capital structure; and. • Risks arising from our status as a REIT.. Risks Arising from Our Business. The properties managed by Atria and Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; adverse developments in Atria's or Sunrise's business and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. As of December 31, 2017, Atria and Sunrise, collectively, managed 273 of our seniors housing communities pursuant to long-term management agreements. These properties represent a substantial portion of our portfolio, based on their gross book value, and account for a significant portion of our revenues and NOI.  Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, we rely on Atria's and Sunrise's personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our senior living operations.  We also rely on Atria and Sunrise to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise operate our seniors housing communities in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations.  For example, we depend on Atria's and Sunrise's ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our seniors housing communities.  A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may force Atria or Sunrise to enhance its pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel, but it may not be able to offset these added costs by increasing the. 15. rates charged to residents.  Any increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses, any failure by Atria or Sunrise to attract and retain qualified personnel, or significant changes in Atria's or Sunrise's senior management or equity ownership could adversely affect the income we receive from our seniors housing communities and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Because Atria and Sunrise manage our properties in exchange for the receipt of a management fee from us, we are not directly exposed to the credit risk of our managers in the same manner or to the same extent as our triple-net tenants.  However, any adverse developments in Atria's or Sunrise's business and affairs or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  If Atria or Sunrise experiences any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties due to a weak economy or otherwise, such difficulties could result in, among other adverse events, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital, the enforcement of default remedies by its counterparties, or the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, any one or a combination of which indirectly could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Our leases and other agreements with Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; any failure, inability or unwillingness by Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent or Kindred to satisfy its obligations under our agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. The properties we lease to Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred account for a significant portion of our revenues and NOI, and we depend on Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties and properties that are collateral for the loans. We cannot assure you that Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their respective obligations to us, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent or Kindred to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, any failure by Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent or Kindred to effectively conduct its operations or to maintain and improve such properties could adversely affect its business reputation and its ability to attract and retain patients and residents in such properties, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot assure you that Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable them to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations.. We face potential adverse consequences from the bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors.. We lease our properties to unaffiliated tenants or operate them through independent third-party managers.  We are also a direct or indirect lender to various tenants and operators.  We have very limited control over the success or failure of our tenants' and operators' businesses and, at any time, a tenant or operator may experience a downturn in its business that weakens its financial condition.  If that happens, the tenant or operator may fail to make its payments to us when due.  Although our lease, loan and management agreements give us the right to exercise certain remedies in the event of default on the obligations owing to us, we may determine not to do so if we believe that enforcement of our rights would be more detrimental to our business than seeking alternative approaches.. A downturn in any of our tenants' or operators' businesses could ultimately lead to bankruptcy if it is unable to timely resolve the underlying causes, which may be largely outside of its control.  Bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of these remedies unenforceable, or, at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies and realize any recoveries in connection therewith.  For example, we cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing.. A debtor-lessee may reject our lease in a bankruptcy proceeding, in which case our claim against the debtor-lessee for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  This statutory cap could be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and any claim we have for unpaid rent might not be paid in full.  In addition, a debtor-lessee may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that our lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement, in which case our rights and remedies as a lender, compared to a landlord, generally would be more limited.  If a debtor-manager seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing our remedies against the manager unless relief is first obtained from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case.  In any of these events, we also may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on our properties or transition our properties to a new tenant, operator or manager.. Bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings may also result in increased costs to the operator and significant management distraction.  If we are unable to transition affected properties, they could experience prolonged operational disruption, leading to lower occupancy rates and further depressed revenues.  Publicity about the operator's financial condition and insolvency. 16. proceedings may also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues.  Any or all of these risks could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  These risks would be magnified where we lease multiple properties to a single operator under a master lease, as an operator failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across multiple properties.. We have rights to terminate our management agreements with Atria and Sunrise in whole or with respect to specific properties under certain circumstances, and we may be unable to replace Atria or Sunrise if our management agreements are terminated or not renewed.. We are parties to long-term management agreements pursuant to which Atria and Sunrise, collectively, provided comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to 273 of our seniors housing communities as of December 31, 2017.  Most of our management agreements with Atria have terms expiring either July 31, 2024 or December 31, 2027, with successive automatic ten-year renewal periods, and our management agreements with Sunrise have terms ranging from 25 to 30 years (which commenced as early as 2004 and as recently as 2012).  Our ability to terminate these long-term management agreements is limited to specific circumstances set forth in the agreements and may relate to all properties or a specific property or group of properties.. We may terminate any of our Atria management agreements upon the occurrence of an event of default by Atria in the performance of a material covenant or term thereof (including, in certain circumstances, the revocation of any license or certificate necessary for operation), subject in most cases to Atria's right to cure such default, or upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Atria.  In addition, we may terminate our management agreements with Atria based on the failure to achieve certain NOI targets or upon the payment of a fee.. Similarly, we may terminate any of our Sunrise management agreements upon the occurrence of an event of default by Sunrise in the performance of a material covenant or term thereof (including, in certain circumstances, the revocation of any license or certificate necessary for operation), subject in most cases to Sunrise's right to cure such default, or upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Sunrise.  We also may terminate most of our management agreements with Sunrise based on the failure to achieve certain NOI targets or to comply with certain expense control covenants, subject to certain rights of Sunrise to make cure payments to us, and upon the occurrence of certain other events or the existence of certain other conditions.. We continually monitor and assess our contractual rights and remedies under our management agreements with Atria and Sunrise.  When determining whether to pursue any existing or future rights or remedies under those agreements, including termination rights, we consider numerous factors, including legal, contractual, regulatory, business and other relevant considerations.  In the event that we exercise our rights to terminate the Atria or Sunrise management agreements for any reason or such agreements are not renewed upon expiration of their terms, we would attempt to reposition the affected properties with another manager.  Although we believe that many qualified national and regional seniors housing operators would be interested in managing our seniors housing communities, we cannot assure you that we would be able to locate another suitable manager or, if we are successful in locating such a manager, that it would manage the properties effectively.  Moreover, the transition to a replacement manager would require approval by the applicable regulatory authorities and, in most cases, the mortgage lenders for the properties, and we cannot assure you that such approvals would be granted on a timely basis, if at all.  Any inability to replace, or a lengthy delay in replacing, Atria or Sunrise as the manager of our seniors housing communities following termination or non-renewal of the applicable management agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases beyond their current term.  If our leases with Brookdale Senior Living or Ardent, the Kindred master leases or any of our other triple-net leases are not renewed, we would attempt to reposition those properties with another tenant or operator.  In case of non-renewal, we generally have one year prior to expiration of the lease term to arrange for repositioning of the properties and our tenants are required to continue to perform all of their obligations (including the payment of all rental amounts) for the non-renewed assets until such expiration.  However, following expiration of a lease term or if we exercise our right to replace a tenant or operator in default, rental payments on the related properties could decline or cease altogether while we reposition the properties with a suitable replacement tenant or operator.  We also might not be successful in identifying suitable replacements or entering into leases or other arrangements with new tenants or operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all, and we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned.  In addition, we may incur certain obligations and liabilities, including obligations to indemnify the replacement tenant or operator, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. 17. In the event of non-renewal or a tenant default, our ability to reposition our properties with a suitable replacement tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, CON or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules, and we could incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings.  Our ability to locate and attract suitable replacement tenants also could be impaired by the specialized healthcare uses or contractual restrictions on use of the properties, and we may be forced to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses.  Any such delays, limitations and expenses could adversely impact our ability to collect rent, obtain possession of leased properties or otherwise exercise remedies for tenant default and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Moreover, in connection with certain of our properties, we have entered into intercreditor agreements with the tenants' lenders or tri-party agreements with our lenders.  Our ability to exercise remedies under the applicable leases or management agreements or to reposition the applicable properties may be significantly delayed or limited by the terms of the intercreditor agreement or tri-party agreement. Any such delay or limit on our rights and remedies could adversely affect our ability to mitigate our losses and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Merger and acquisition activity or consolidation in the seniors housing and healthcare industries resulting in a change of control of, or a competitor's investment in, one or more of our tenants, operators or managers could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. The seniors housing and healthcare industries have recently experienced increased consolidation, including among owners of real estate and care providers.  We compete with other healthcare REITs, healthcare providers, healthcare lenders, real estate partnerships, banks, insurance companies, private equity firms and other investors that pursue a variety of investments, which may include investments in our tenants, operators or managers.  A competitor's investment in one of our tenants, operators or managers could enable our competitor to influence that tenant's, operator's or manager's business and strategy in a manner that impairs our relationship with the tenant, operator or manager or is otherwise adverse to our interests.  Depending on our contractual agreements and the specific facts and circumstances, we may have the right to consent to, or otherwise exercise rights and remedies, including termination rights, on account of, a competitor's investment in, a change of control of, or other transactions impacting a tenant, operator or manager.  In deciding whether to exercise our rights and remedies, including termination rights, we assess numerous factors, including legal, contractual, regulatory, business and other relevant considerations.  In addition, in connection with any change of control of a tenant, operator or manager, the tenant's, operator's or manager's management team may change, which could lead to a change in the tenant's, operator's or manager's strategy or adversely affect the business of the tenant, operator or manager, either of which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Market conditions, including, but not limited to, interest rates and credit spreads, the availability of credit and the actual and perceived state of the real estate markets and public capital markets generally could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. The markets in which we operate are affected by a number of factors that are largely beyond our control but may nevertheless have a significant negative impact on us. These factors include, but are not limited to:. • Interest rates and credit spreads;. • The availability of credit, including the price, terms and conditions under which it can be obtained; and. • The actual and perceived state of the real estate market, the market for dividend-paying stocks and public capital markets in general.. In addition, increased inflation may have a pronounced negative impact on the interest expense we pay in connection with our outstanding indebtedness and our general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents.. Deflation may result in a decline in general price levels, often caused by a decrease in the supply of money or credit. The predominant effects of deflation are high unemployment, credit contraction and weakened consumer demand.  Restricted lending practices may impact our ability to obtain financing for our properties, which could adversely impact our growth and profitability.. Our ongoing strategy depends, in part, upon future investments in and acquisitions of, or our development or redevelopment of, seniors housing and healthcare assets, and we may not be successful in identifying and consummating these transactions.. An important part of our business strategy is to continue to expand and diversify our portfolio through accretive acquisition, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities in domestic and international seniors housing and healthcare properties.  Our execution of this strategy by successfully identifying, securing and consummating beneficial transactions is made more challenging by increased competition and can be affected by many factors, including our. 18. relationships with current and prospective clients, our ability to obtain debt and equity capital at costs comparable to or better than our competitors and lower than the yield we earn on our acquisitions or investments, and our ability to negotiate favorable terms with property owners seeking to sell and other contractual counterparties.  Our competitors for these opportunities include other healthcare REITs, real estate partnerships, healthcare providers, healthcare lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do.  See \"Business - Competition\" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  If we are unsuccessful at identifying and capitalizing on investment, acquisition, development and redevelopment opportunities, our growth and profitability may be adversely affected.. Investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and healthcare properties entail risks associated with real estate investments generally, including risks that the investment will not achieve expected returns, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will fail to meet performance expectations.  Investments outside the United States raise legal, economic and market risks associated with doing business in foreign countries, such as currency exchange fluctuations, costly regulatory requirements and foreign tax risks.  Domestic and international real estate development and redevelopment projects present additional risks, including construction delays or cost overruns that increase expenses, the inability to obtain required zoning, occupancy and other governmental approvals and permits on a timely basis, and the incurrence of significant costs prior to completion of the project.  Furthermore, healthcare properties are often highly customized and the development or redevelopment of such properties may require costly tenant-specific improvements.  As a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquisition, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities.. Our significant acquisition and investment activity presents certain risks to our business and operations.. We have made and expect to continue to make significant acquisitions and investments as part of our overall business strategy.  Our significant acquisition and investment activity presents certain risks to our business and operations, including, among other things, that:. • We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations, personnel or systems of acquired companies, maintain consistent standards, controls, policies and procedures, or realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions and other investments within the anticipated time frame or at all;. • We may be unable to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties, retain key employees or attract highly qualified new employees;. • Projections of estimated future revenues, costs savings or operating metrics that we develop during the due diligence and integration planning process might be inaccurate;. • Our leverage could increase or our per share financial results could decline if we incur additional debt or issue equity securities to finance acquisitions and investments;. • Acquisitions and other new investments could divert management's attention from our existing assets;. • The value of acquired assets or the market price of our common stock may decline; and. • We may be unable to continue paying dividends at the current rate.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate acquisitions and investments without encountering difficulties or that any such difficulties will not have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. If the liabilities we assume in connection with acquisitions, including indemnification obligations in favor of third parties, are greater than expected, or if there are unknown liabilities, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. We may assume or incur liabilities in connection with our acquisitions, including, in some cases, contingent liabilities.  As we integrate these acquisitions, we may learn additional information about the sellers, the properties, their operations and their liabilities that adversely affects us, such as:. • Liabilities relating to the clean-up or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions;. • Unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the sellers;. • Liabilities, claims and litigation, including indemnification obligations, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to or following our acquisition;. • Claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the sellers; and. • Liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition.. 19. As a result, we cannot assure you that our past or future acquisitions will be successful or will not, in fact, harm our business.  Among other things, if the liabilities we assume in connection with acquisitions are greater than expected, or if we discover obligations relating to the acquired properties or businesses of which we were not aware at the time of acquisition, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. In addition, we have now, and may have in the future, certain surviving indemnification obligations in favor of third parties under the terms of acquisition agreements to which we are a party.  Most of these indemnification obligations will be capped as to amount and survival period, and we do not believe that these obligations will be material in the aggregate.  However, there can be no assurances as to the ultimate amount of such obligations or whether such obligations will have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage the expansion of our hospital and life science portfolios and operations following the acquisition of AHS and the Life Sciences Acquisition.. As a result of our acquisition of Ardent Medical Services, Inc. (\"AHS\") in 2015, we entered into the general acute care hospital sector. Also, as a result of the acquisition of substantially all of the university affiliated life science real estate assets of Wexford Science & Technology, LLC (\"Wexford\") in 2016 (the \"Life Sciences Acquisition\"), we entered into the university-affiliated life science sector.  Part of our long-term business strategy involves expanding our hospital and life science portfolios through additional acquisitions and development of new properties. Both the asset management of our existing general acute care hospital and university-affiliated life science and innovation centers portfolios and such additional acquisitions and developments may involve complex challenges. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage our expansion opportunities, integrate new investments into our existing business in an efficient and timely manner, successfully monitor the operations, costs, regulatory compliance and service quality of our operators and leverage our relationships with Ardent and other operators of hospitals and Wexford and other operators and developers of life science and innovation centers. It is possible that our expansion or acquisition opportunities within the general acute care hospital and life science sectors will not be successful, which could adversely impact our growth and future results.. Our investments are concentrated in seniors housing and healthcare real estate, making us more vulnerable economically to adverse changes in the real estate market and the seniors housing and healthcare industries than if our investments were diversified.. We invest primarily in seniors housing and healthcare properties and are constrained by the terms of our existing indebtedness from making investments outside those industries.  This investment focus exposes us to greater economic risk than if our portfolio were to include real estate assets in other industries or assets unrelated to real estate.. The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and changes in government regulation and reimbursement can have material adverse consequences on its participants, some of which may be unintended.  The healthcare industry is also highly competitive, and our operators and managers may encounter increased competition for residents and patients, including with respect to the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the properties, price and location.  Our tenants, operators and managers are large employers who compete for labor, making their results sensitive to changes in the labor market and/or wages and benefits offered to their employees.  If our tenants, operators and managers are unable to successfully compete with other operators and managers by maintaining profitable occupancy and rate levels or controlling labor costs, their ability to meet their respective obligations to us may be materially adversely affected.  We cannot assure you that future changes in government regulation will not adversely affect the healthcare industry, including our seniors housing and healthcare operations, tenants and operators, nor can we be certain that our tenants, operators and managers will achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels or labor costs levels that will enable them to satisfy their obligations to us.  Any adverse changes in the regulation of the healthcare industry, or the competitiveness of our tenants, operators and managers, or costs of labor, could have a more pronounced effect on us than if we had investments outside the seniors housing and healthcare industries.. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and our ability to quickly sell or exchange our properties in response to changes in economic or other conditions is limited.  In the event we market any of our properties for sale, the value of those properties and our ability to sell at prices or on terms acceptable to us could be adversely affected by a downturn in the real estate industry or any economic weakness in the seniors housing and healthcare industries.  In addition, transfers of healthcare properties may be subject to regulatory approvals that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial properties.  We cannot assure you that we will recognize the full value of any property that we sell for liquidity or other reasons, and the inability to respond quickly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 20. Our operating assets expose us to various operational risks, liabilities and claims that could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues or increase our costs and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Our senior living operating assets and office assets expose us to various operational risks, liabilities and claims that could increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues, thereby reducing our profitability.  These operational risks include fluctuations in occupancy levels, the inability to achieve economic resident fees (including anticipated increases in those fees), increases in the cost of food, materials, energy, labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise) or other services, rent control regulations, national and regional economic conditions, the imposition of new or increased taxes, capital expenditure requirements, professional and general liability claims, and the availability and cost of professional and general liability insurance.  Any one or a combination of these factors could result in operating deficiencies in our senior living operations or office operations reportable business segments, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Our ownership of properties outside the United States exposes us to different risks than those associated with our domestic properties.. Our current or future ownership of properties outside the United States subjects us to risks that may be different or greater than those we face with our domestic properties.  These risks include, but are not limited to:. • Challenges with respect to repatriation of foreign earnings and cash;. • Foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries in which we own properties;. • Regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability;. • Challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and legal proceedings;. • Differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; and. • Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. Increased construction and development in the markets in which our seniors housing communities and MOBs are located could adversely affect our future occupancy rates, operating margins and profitability.. Limited barriers to entry in the seniors housing and MOB industries could lead to the development of new seniors housing communities or MOBs that outpaces demand.  Data published by the National Investment Center for Seniors Housing & Care has indicated deliveries of new seniors housing communities will remain at elevated levels in 2018, especially in certain geographic markets.  If development outpaces demand for those assets in the markets in which our properties are located, those markets may become saturated and we could experience decreased occupancy, reduced operating margins and lower profitability, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. We have now, and may have in the future, exposure to contingent rent escalators, which could hinder our growth and profitability.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from leasing properties pursuant to long-term triple-net leases that generally provide for fixed rental rates, subject to annual escalations. In certain cases, the annual escalations are contingent upon the achievement of specified revenue parameters or based on changes in CPI, with caps and floors. If, as a result of weak economic conditions or other factors, the properties subject to these leases do not generate sufficient revenue to achieve the specified rent escalation parameters or CPI does not increase, our growth and profitability may be hindered.  If strong economic conditions result in significant increases in CPI, but the escalations under our leases are capped, our growth and profitability also may be limited.. We own certain properties subject to ground lease, air rights or other restrictive agreements that limit our uses of the properties, restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer the properties and expose us to loss of the properties if such agreements are breached by us or terminated.. Our investments in MOBs and other properties may be made through leasehold interests in the land on which the buildings are located, leases of air rights for the space above the land on which the buildings are located, or other similar restrictive arrangements.  Many of these ground lease, air rights and other restrictive agreements impose significant limitations on our uses of the subject properties, restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer our interests in the properties or restrict the leasing of the properties.  These restrictions may limit our ability to timely sell or exchange the properties, impair the properties' value or negatively impact our ability to find suitable tenants for the properties.  In addition, we could lose our interests in the subject properties if the ground lease, air rights or other restrictive agreements are breached by us or terminated.. 21. We may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our loans and other investments, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully sell any acquired equity interests or reposition any acquired properties, which could adversely affect our ability to recover our investments.. If a borrower defaults under mortgage or other secured loans for which we are the lender, we may attempt to foreclose on the collateral securing those loans, including by acquiring any pledged equity interests or acquiring title to the subject properties, to protect our investment.  In response, the defaulting borrower may contest our enforcement of foreclosure or other available remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other available remedies, or bring claims against us for lender liability.  If a defaulting borrower seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other available remedies against the borrower unless relief is first obtained from the court with jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case.  In addition, we may be subject to intercreditor or tri-party agreements that delay, impact, govern or limit our ability to foreclose on a lien securing a loan or otherwise delay or limit our pursuit of our rights and remedies.  Any such delay or limit on our ability to pursue our rights or remedies could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Even if we successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our mortgage loans and other investments, costs related to enforcement of our remedies, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the collateral could prevent us from realizing the full amount of our secured loans, and we could be required to record a valuation allowance for such losses.  Moreover, the collateral may include equity interests that we are unable to sell due to securities law restrictions or otherwise, or properties that we are unable to reposition with new tenants or operators on a timely basis, if at all, or without making improvements or repairs.  Any delay or costs incurred in selling or repositioning acquired collateral could adversely affect our ability to recover our investments.. Some of our loan investments are subordinated to loans held by third parties.. Our mezzanine loan investments are subordinated to senior secured loans held by other investors that encumber the same real estate.  If a senior secured loan is foreclosed, that foreclosure would extinguish our rights in the collateral for our mezzanine loan.  In order to protect our economic interest in that collateral, we would need to be prepared, on an expedited basis, to advance funds to the senior lenders in order to cure defaults under the senior secured loans and prevent such a foreclosure.  If a senior secured loan has matured or has been accelerated, then in order to protect our economic interest in the collateral, we would need to be prepared, on an expedited basis, to purchase or pay off that senior secured loan, which could require an infusion of fresh capital as large or larger than our initial investment.  Our ability to sell or syndicate a mezzanine loan could be limited by transfer restrictions in the intercreditor agreement with the senior secured lenders.  Our ability to negotiate modifications to the mezzanine loan documents with our borrowers could be limited by restrictions on modifications in the intercreditor agreement.  Since mezzanine loans are typically secured by pledges of equity rather than direct liens on real estate, our mezzanine loan investments are more vulnerable than our mortgage loan investments to losses caused by competing creditor claims, unauthorized transfers, or bankruptcies.. Our tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by healthcare regulation and enforcement.. Regulation of the healthcare industry generally has intensified over time both in the number and type of regulations and in the efforts to enforce those regulations.  This is particularly true for large for-profit, multi-facility providers like Atria, Sunrise, Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred.  Federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry include those relating to, among other things, licensure, conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, addition of facilities and equipment, allowable costs, services, prices for services, qualified beneficiaries, quality of care, patient rights, fraudulent or abusive behavior, financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by healthcare providers and the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of life science products.  In addition, changes in enforcement policies by federal and state governments have resulted in an increase in the number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions, civil monetary penalties and even criminal penalties.  See \"Governmental Regulation - Healthcare Regulation\" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We are unable to predict the scope of future federal, state and local regulations and legislation, including the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such regulations and legislation, and any changes in the regulatory framework could have a material adverse effect on our tenants, operators and managers, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. If our tenants, operators and managers fail to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their businesses and the operation of our properties, they could become ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental and private third-party payor programs, face bans on admissions of new patients or residents, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to their operations.  Our tenants, operators and managers also. 22. could face increased costs related to changes in healthcare regulation, such as the possible repeal of the ACA by the current presidential administration and Republican-controlled Congress and a shift toward less comprehensive health coverage, or be forced to expend considerable resources in responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under applicable laws or regulations.  In such event, the results of operations and financial condition of our tenants, operators and managers and the results of operations of our properties operated or managed by those entities could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including insurance companies and the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us.. Certain of our tenants and operators rely on reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare (both traditional Medicare and \"managed\" Medicare/Medicare Advantage) and Medicaid programs, for substantially all of their revenues.  Federal and state legislators and regulators have adopted or proposed various cost-containment measures that would limit payments to healthcare providers, and budget crises and financial shortfalls have caused states to implement or consider Medicaid rate freezes or cuts.  See \"Governmental Regulation - Healthcare Regulation\" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Private third-party payors also have continued their efforts to control healthcare costs.  In addition, coverage expansions via the ACA through Medicaid expansion and health insurance exchanges may be scaled back as the current presidential administration and some members of Congress lead efforts to repeal and replace the ACA.  We cannot assure you that our tenants and operators who currently depend on governmental or private payor reimbursement will be adequately reimbursed for the services they provide.  Significant limits by governmental and private third-party payors on the scope of services reimbursed or on reimbursement rates and fees, whether from legislation, administrative actions or private payor efforts, could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of certain of our tenants and operators, which could affect adversely their ability to comply with the terms of our leases and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. The healthcare industry trend away from a traditional fee for service reimbursement model towards value-based payment approaches may negatively impact certain of our tenants' revenues and profitability. Certain of our tenants, specifically those providers in the post-acute and general acute care hospital space, are subject to the broad trend in the healthcare industry toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services. These value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. Medicare and Medicaid require healthcare facilities, including hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called \"never events\").  Many large commercial payors currently require healthcare facilities to report quality data, and several commercial payors do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events.. During the Obama administration, HHS focused on tying Medicare payments to quality or value through alternative payment models, which generally aim to make providers attentive to the total costs of treatment. Examples of alternative payment models include bundled-payment arrangements. It is unclear whether such models will successfully coordinate care and reduce costs or whether they will decrease reimbursement. The value-based purchasing trend is not limited to the public sector. Several of the nation's largest commercial payors have also expressed an intent to increase reliance on value-based reimbursement arrangements. Further, many large commercial payors require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payors do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events.. While the current presidential administration's and some members of Congress's desire to repeal the ACA creates unpredictability, we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect the revenues and profitability of those of our tenants who are providers of healthcare services; however, if this trend significantly and adversely affects their profitability, it could in turn negatively affect their ability and willingness to comply with the terms of their leases with us and or renew those leases upon expiration, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. If controls imposed on certain of our tenants who provide healthcare services that are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors to reduce admissions and length of stay affect inpatient volumes at our healthcare facilities, the financial condition or results of operations of those tenants could be adversely affected.. Controls imposed by Medicare, Medicaid and commercial third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as \"utilization reviews,\" have affected and are expected to continue to affect certain of. 23. our healthcare facilities, specifically our acute care hospitals and post-acute facilities. Utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressures to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls and reductions are expected to continue, which could negatively impact the financial condition of our tenants who provide healthcare services in our hospitals and post-acute facilities.  If so, this could adversely affect these tenants' ability and willingness to comply with the terms of their leases with us and or renew those leases upon expiration, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. The implementation of new patient criteria for LTACs will change the basis upon which certain of our tenants are reimbursed by Medicare, which could adversely affect those tenants' revenues and profitability.. As part of the Pathway for SGR Reform Act of 2013 enacted on December 26, 2013, Congress adopted various legislative changes impacting LTACs. These legislative changes create new Medicare criteria and payment rules for LTACs, and could have a material adverse impact on the revenues and profitability of the tenants of our LTACs.  This material adverse impact could, in turn, negatively affect those tenants' ability and willingness to comply with the terms of their leases with us or renew those leases upon expiration, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. The hospitals on or near whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated health systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our MOBs.. Our MOB operations depend on the competitiveness and financial viability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses our MOBs are located and their ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related clients to our MOBs.  The viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition for patients, physicians and physician groups, demographic trends in the surrounding community, market position and growth potential, as well as the ability of the affiliated health systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital.  If a hospital on or near whose campus one of our MOBs is located fails or becomes unable to meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated health system is unable to support that hospital, the hospital may be unable to compete successfully or could be forced to close or relocate, which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related clients.  Because we rely on proximity to and affiliations with hospitals to create leasing demand in our MOBs, a hospital's inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could materially adversely affect our MOB operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Our development and redevelopment projects, including projects undertaken through our joint ventures, may not yield anticipated returns.. We consider and, when appropriate, invest in various development and redevelopment projects.  In deciding whether to make an investment in a particular project, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of the property.  Our assumptions are subject to risks generally associated with development and redevelopment projects, including, among others, that:. • We may be unable to obtain financing for the project on favorable terms or at all;. • We may not complete the project on schedule or within budgeted amounts;. • We may encounter delays in obtaining or fail to obtain all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, environmental and other governmental permits and authorizations, or underestimate the costs necessary to develop or redevelop the property to market standards;. • Construction or other delays may provide tenants or residents the right to terminate preconstruction leases or cause us to incur additional costs;. • Volatility in the price of construction materials or labor may increase our project costs;. • In the case of our MOB developments, hospitals or health systems may maintain significant decision-making authority with respect to the development schedule;. • Our builders may fail to perform or satisfy the expectations of our clients or prospective clients;. • We may incorrectly forecast risks associated with development in new geographic regions;. • Tenants may not lease space at the quantity or rental rate levels or on the schedule projected;. • Demand for our project may decrease prior to completion, due to competition from other developments; and. 24. • Lease rates and rents at newly developed or redeveloped properties may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control, including market and economic conditions.. If any of the risks described above occur, our development and redevelopment projects, including projects undertaken through our joint ventures, may not yield anticipated returns, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Our investments in joint ventures and unconsolidated entities could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on our joint venture partners' financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners, and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned 48 MOBs, 11 life science and innovation centers, nine seniors housing communities and one IRF through consolidated joint ventures, and we had 25% ownership interests in 17 seniors housing communities, 13 SNFs and one MOB through investments in unconsolidated entities.  In addition, we had a 34% ownership interest in Atria and a 9.9% interest in Ardent as of December 31, 2017.  These joint ventures and unconsolidated entities involve risks not present with respect to our wholly owned properties, including the following:. • We may be unable to take actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners under arrangements that require us to share decision-making authority over major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property owned by the joint venture, such as the sale or financing of the property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the property;. • For joint ventures in which we have a noncontrolling interest, our joint venture partners may take actions that we oppose;. • Our ability to sell or transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted if we fail to obtain the prior consent of our joint venture partners;. • Our joint venture partners may become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which could delay construction or development of a property or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture;. • Our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to a property that conflict with our business interests and goals, including with respect to the timing, terms and strategies for investment, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the property;. • Disagreements with our joint venture partners could result in litigation or arbitration that increases our expenses, distracts our officers and directors, and disrupts the day-to-day operations of the property, including by delaying important decisions until the dispute is resolved; and. • We may suffer losses as a result of actions taken by our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments.. Events that adversely affect the ability of seniors and their families to afford daily resident fees at our seniors housing communities could cause our occupancy rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations to decline.. Assisted and independent living services generally are not reimbursable under government reimbursement programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.  A large majority of the resident fee revenues generated by our senior living operations, therefore, are derived from private pay sources consisting of the income or assets of residents or their family members.  In light of the significant expense associated with building new properties and staffing and other costs of providing services, typically only seniors with income or assets that meet or exceed the comparable region median can afford the daily resident and care fees at our seniors housing communities, and a weak economy, depressed housing market or changes in demographics could adversely affect their continued ability to do so.  If the managers of our seniors housing communities are unable to attract and retain seniors that have sufficient income, assets or other resources to pay the fees associated with assisted and independent living services, the occupancy rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations of our senior living operations could decline, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty.. Life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, including the following:. • Some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research and development and clinical testing of their products and technologies. The economic environment in recent years has significantly impacted the ability of these companies to access the capital markets and venture capital funding. In addition, state and federal government and university budgets have been negatively impacted by the recent economic environment and, as a result certain. 25. programs, including grants related to biotechnology research and development, may be at risk of being eliminated or cut back significantly. If private investors, the government, universities, public markets or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such development, a tenant's business may fail.. • The research and development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals. The approval process is typically long, expensive and uncertain. Even if our tenants have sufficient funds to seek approvals, one or all of their products may fail to obtain the required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. Furthermore, our tenants may only have a small number of products under development. If one product fails to receive the required approvals at any stage of development, it could significantly adversely affect our tenant's entire business and its ability to pay rent.. • Our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws. Failure to do so could jeopardize their ability to profit from their efforts and to protect their products from competition.. • Collaborative relationships with other life science entities may be crucial to the development, manufacturing, distribution or marketing of our tenants' products. If these other entities fail to fulfill their obligations under these collaborative arrangements, our tenants' businesses will suffer.. • Legislation to reform the U.S. healthcare system, including regulations and legislation relating to the ACA, may include government intervention in product pricing and other changes that adversely affect reimbursement for our tenants' marketable products. In addition, sales of many of our tenants' marketable products are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Changes in government regulations, price controls or third-party payors' reimbursement policies may reduce reimbursement for our tenants' marketable products and adversely impact our tenants' businesses.. We cannot assure you that our tenants in the life science industry will be successful in their businesses. If our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies and policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers may not adequately insure against losses.. We maintain or require in our lease, management and other agreements that our tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of insurance on our properties and their operations.  Although we regularly review the amount and scope of insurance provided by our policies and required to be maintained by our tenants, operators and managers and believe the coverage provided to be customary for similarly situated companies in our industry, we cannot assure you that we or our tenants, operators and managers will continue to be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance.  We also cannot assure you that we or our tenants, operators and managers will maintain the required coverages, that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance under our lease, management and other agreements, that such insurance will be available at a reasonable cost in the future or that the policies maintained will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event, nor can we make any guaranty as to the future financial viability of the insurers that underwrite our policies and the policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers.. For various reasons, including to reduce and manage costs, many healthcare companies utilize different organizational and corporate structures coupled with self-insurance trusts or captive programs that may provide less insurance coverage than a traditional insurance policy.  Companies that insure any part of their general and professional liability risks through their own captive limited purpose entities generally estimate the future cost of general and professional liability through actuarial studies that rely primarily on historical data.  However, due to the rise in the number and severity of professional claims against healthcare providers, these actuarial studies may underestimate the future cost of claims, and reserves for future claims may not be adequate to cover the actual cost of those claims.  As a result, the tenants and operators of our properties who self-insure could incur large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses, which could materially adversely affect their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their obligations to us.  If we or the managers of our senior living operations decide to implement a captive or self-insurance program, any large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses incurred could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur substantial liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property.  Following the occurrence of such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations. 26. related to the property.  We cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future.. Significant legal actions or regulatory proceedings could subject us or our tenants, operators and managers to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our or their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, we may be subject to claims brought against us in lawsuits and other legal or regulatory proceedings arising out of our alleged actions or the alleged actions of our tenants, operators and managers for which such tenants, operators and managers may have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless.  An unfavorable resolution of any such litigation or proceeding could materially adversely affect our or their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. In certain cases, we and our tenants, operators and managers may be subject to professional liability claims brought by plaintiffs' attorneys seeking significant punitive damages and attorneys' fees.  Due to the historically high frequency and severity of professional liability claims against seniors housing and healthcare providers, the availability of professional liability insurance has decreased and the premiums on such insurance coverage remain costly.  As a result, insurance protection against such claims may not be sufficient to cover all claims against us or our tenants, operators or managers, and may not be available at a reasonable cost.  If we or our tenants, operators and managers are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage or are required to pay punitive damages, we or they may be exposed to substantial liabilities.. The occurrence of cyber incidents could disrupt our operations, result in the loss of confidential information and/or damage our business relationships and reputation.. As our reliance on technology has increased, our business is subject to greater risk from cyber incidents, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our or our managers' systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or steal confidential information, and other electronic security breaches.  While we and our managers have implemented measures to help mitigate these threats, such measures cannot guarantee that we will be successful in preventing a cyber incident.  The occurrence of a cyber incident could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our managers, compromise the confidential information of our employees or the residents in our seniors housing communities, and/or damage our business relationships and reputation.. Our operators may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute.. Our operators who engage in business with the federal government may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute designed to combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry.  See \"Governmental Regulation - Healthcare Regulation\" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  These lawsuits can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits.  If any of these lawsuits were brought against our operators, such suits combined with increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and on their ability to satisfy their obligations under our leases, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. We could incur substantial liabilities and costs if any of our properties are found to be contaminated with hazardous substances or we become involved in any environmental disputes.. Under federal and state environmental laws and regulations, a current or former owner of real property may be liable for costs related to the investigation, removal and remediation of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum that are released from or are present at or under, or that are disposed of in connection with such property.  Owners of real property may also face other environmental liabilities, including government fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities and damages for injuries to persons, property or natural resources.  Environmental laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to whether the owner was aware of, or was responsible for, the presence, release or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum.  In certain circumstances, environmental liability may result from the activities of a current or former operator of the property.  Although we generally have indemnification rights against the current operators of our properties for contamination caused by them, such indemnification may not adequately cover all environmental costs.  See \"Governmental Regulation - Environmental Regulation\" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain talented employees, and the loss of any one of our key personnel could adversely impact our business.. The success of our business depends, in part, on the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees, and our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees could significantly impact our future performance.  Competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will retain our key officers and. 27. employees or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals in the future.  Losing any one or more of these persons could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control.  Because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud, effective internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatement and can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting and our operating internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls as a result of changes to our business or otherwise, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations.. Economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic locations to which a greater percentage of our NOI is attributed could adversely affect our financial results.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 35.6% of our total NOI was derived from properties located in California (13.9%), Texas (6.4%), New York (5.7%), Illinois (5.1%) and Florida (4.5%).  As a result, we are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting these regions, including downturns in the local economies or changes in local real estate conditions, increased construction and competition or decreased demand for our properties, regional climate events and changes in state-specific legislation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.. Our ownership of properties in Canada and the United Kingdom currently subjects us to fluctuations in the exchange rates between U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars or the British pound, which may, from time to time, impact our financial condition and results of operations.  If we continue to expand our international presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing or healthcare assets outside the United States, Canada or the United Kingdom, we may transact business in other foreign currencies.  Although we may pursue hedging alternatives, including borrowing in local currencies, to protect against foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot assure you that such fluctuations will not have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure. We may become more leveraged.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $11.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness.  The instruments governing our existing indebtedness permit us to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt, and we may satisfy our capital and liquidity needs through additional borrowings.  A high level of indebtedness would require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, thereby reducing the funds available to implement our business strategy and make distributions to stockholders.  A high level of indebtedness could also have the following consequences:. • Potential limits on our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and vulnerability in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in the real estate or healthcare industries;. • Potential impairment of our ability to obtain additional financing to execute on our business strategy; and. • Potential downgrade in the rating of our debt securities by one or more rating agencies, which could have the effect of, among other things, limiting our access to capital and increasing our cost of borrowing.. In addition, from time to time, we mortgage certain of our properties to secure payment of indebtedness.  If we are unable to meet our mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a resulting loss of income and asset value.. We are exposed to increases in interest rates, which could reduce our profitability and adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets or engage in acquisition, investment, development and redevelopment activity, and our decision to hedge against interest rate risk might not be effective.. We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing assets under long-term triple-net leases that generally provide for fixed rental rates subject to annual escalations, while certain of our debt obligations are floating rate obligations with interest and related payments that vary with the movement of LIBOR, Bankers' Acceptance or other indexes. The. 28. generally fixed rate nature of a significant portion of our revenues and the variable rate nature of certain of our debt obligations create interest rate risk.  Although our operating assets provide a partial hedge against interest rate fluctuations, if interest rates rise, the costs of our existing floating rate debt and any new debt that we incur would increase.  These increased costs could reduce our profitability, impair our ability to meet our debt obligations, or increase the cost of financing our acquisition, investment, development and redevelopment activity.  An increase in interest rates also could limit our ability to refinance existing debt upon maturity or cause us to pay higher rates upon refinancing, as well as decrease the amount that third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to promptly reposition our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions.. We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility with hedging arrangements that involve additional risks, including the risks that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs, and that these arrangements may cause us to pay higher interest rates on our debt obligations than otherwise would be the case.  Moreover, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates.  Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make required payments on our debt obligations, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business strategy.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to meet our debt service obligations, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business strategy, if our cash flow from operations is insufficient to satisfy these needs, and the failure to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  Although we believe that we have sufficient access to capital and other sources of funding to meet our expected liquidity needs, we cannot assure you that conditions in the capital markets will not deteriorate or that our access to capital and other sources of funding will not become constrained, which could adversely affect the availability and terms of future borrowings, renewals or refinancings and our results of operation and financial condition.  If we cannot access capital at an acceptable cost or at all, we may be required to liquidate one or more investments in properties at times that may not permit us to maximize the return on those investments or that could result in adverse tax consequences to us.. As a public company, our access to debt and equity capital depends, in part, on the trading prices of our senior notes and common stock, which, in turn, depend upon market conditions that change from time to time, such as the market's perception of our financial condition, our growth potential and our current and expected future earnings and cash distributions.  Our failure to meet the market's expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions or a significant downgrade in the ratings assigned to our long-term debt could impact our ability to access capital or increase our borrowing costs.  We also rely on the financial institutions that are parties to our revolving credit facilities.  If these institutions become capital constrained, tighten their lending standards or become insolvent or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, they may be unable or unwilling to honor their funding commitments to us, which would adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facilities and, over time, could negatively impact our ability to consummate acquisitions, repay indebtedness as it matures, fund capital expenditures or make distributions to our stockholders.. Covenants in the instruments governing our and our subsidiaries' existing indebtedness limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach could materially adversely affect our operations.. The terms of the instruments governing our existing indebtedness require us to comply with certain customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios and minimum net worth requirements. Our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to our compliance with these covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the applicable debt instruments and could trigger defaults under any of our other indebtedness that is cross-defaulted against such instruments, even if we satisfy our payment obligations. In addition, covenants contained in the instruments governing our subsidiaries' outstanding mortgage indebtedness may restrict our ability to obtain cash distributions from such subsidiaries for the purpose of meeting our debt service obligations.  Financial and other covenants that limit our operational flexibility, as well as defaults resulting from our breach of any of these covenants, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.. 29. Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT. Loss of our status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock.. If we lose our status as a REIT (currently or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to satisfy our obligations, to implement our business strategy and to make distributions to our stockholders for each of the years involved because:. • We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to regular U.S. federal corporate income tax;. • We could be subject to increased state and local taxes; and. • Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified.. In addition, in such event we would no longer be required to pay dividends to maintain REIT status, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations.  The determination of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control, as well as new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions, may adversely affect our investors or our ability to remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes.  In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, generally including requirements regarding the ownership of our stock, requirements regarding the composition of our assets, a requirement that at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding capital gains.  Although we believe that we currently qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify for all future periods.. The 90% distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions.. To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders.  Such distributions reduce the funds we have available to finance our investment, acquisition, development and redevelopment activity and may limit our ability to engage in transactions that are otherwise in the best interests of our stockholders.. Although we do not anticipate any inability to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to do so.  For example, timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand, or non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may prevent us from having sufficient cash or liquid assets to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement.. In the event that timing differences occur or we decide to retain cash or to distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, we may seek to borrow funds, issue additional equity securities, pay taxable stock dividends, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements.  Any of these actions may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations; however, see \"Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure - Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make required payments on our debt obligations, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business strategy.\" The terms of the instruments governing our existing indebtedness restrict our ability to engage in certain of these transactions.. To preserve our qualification as a REIT, our certificate of incorporation contains ownership limits with respect to our capital stock that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company.. To assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT, our certificate of incorporation provides that if a person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 9.0% of our outstanding common stock or more than 9.9% of our outstanding preferred stock, the shares that are beneficially owned in excess of the applicable limit are considered \"excess shares\" and are automatically deemed transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable institution or other qualifying organization selected by our Board of Directors.  The trust is entitled to all dividends with respect to the excess shares and the trustee may exercise all voting power over the excess shares.  In addition, we have the right to purchase the excess shares for a price equal to the lesser. 30. of (i) the price per share in the transaction that created the excess shares or (ii) the market price on the day we purchase the shares, but if we do not purchase the excess shares, the trustee of the trust is required to transfer the shares at the direction of our Board of Directors.  These ownership limits could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our use of TRSs is limited under the Code.. Under the Code, no more than 20% of the value of the gross assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. This limitation may affect our ability to increase the size of our TRSs' operations and assets, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the applicable limitation, or that such compliance will not adversely affect our business.  Also, our TRSs may not, among other things, operate or manage certain health care facilities, which may cause us to forego investments we might otherwise make.  Finally, we may be subject to a 100% excise tax on the income derived from certain transactions with our TRSs that are not on an arm's-length basis.  We believe our arrangements with our TRSs are on arm's-length terms and intend to continue to operate in a manner that allows us to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid application of that tax.. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in \"prohibited transactions\" may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes.. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax.  In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business.  Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, unless a sale or disposition qualifies under certain statutory safe harbors, such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be able to make use of the available safe harbors.. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on our stockholders or us.. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department.  Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could adversely affect our investors or us.  We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us.  New legislation, U.S. Treasury Department regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, or the federal income tax consequences of an investment in us.  Also, the law relating to the tax treatment of other entities, or an investment in other entities, could change, making an investment in such other entities more attractive relative to an investment in a REIT.. The recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"2017 Tax Act\") has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. businesses and their owners, including REITs and their stockholders.  Changes made by the 2017 Tax Act that could affect us and our stockholders include:. • temporarily reducing individual U.S. federal income tax rates on ordinary income; the highest individual U.S. federal income tax rate has been reduced from 39.6% to 37% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026;. • permanently eliminating the progressive corporate tax rate structure, which previously imposed a maximum corporate tax rate of 35%, and replacing it with a flat corporate tax rate of 21%;. • permitting a deduction for certain pass-through business income, including dividends received by our stockholders from us that are not designated by us as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income, which will allow individuals, trusts, and estates to deduct up to 20% of such amounts for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026;. • reducing the highest rate of withholding with respect to our distributions to non-U.S. stockholders that are treated as attributable to gains from the sale or exchange of U.S. real property interests from 35% to 21%;. • limiting our deduction for net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80% of REIT taxable income (prior to the application of the dividends paid deduction);. • generally limiting the deduction for net business interest expense in excess of 30% of a business's \"adjusted taxable income,\" except for taxpayers (including most equity REITs) that engage in certain real estate businesses. 31. and elect out of this rule (provided that such electing taxpayers must use an alternative depreciation system with longer depreciation periods); and. • eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax.. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions.  The 2017 Tax Act is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the U.S. Treasury Department and IRS, any of which could lessen or increase the impact of the 2017 Tax Act.  In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.  While some of the changes made by the 2017 Tax Act may adversely affect us in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis.  We continue to work with our tax advisors and auditors to determine the full impact that the 2017 Tax Act as a whole will have on us."
