[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this filing, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before investing in our common stock. The following risks and the risks described elsewhere in this filing, including in the section entitled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If that occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OUTSTANDING CREDIT FACILITIES,. DEBT AND RECEIVABLES, AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. We will need to raise additional capital to meet the requirements of the terms and conditions of our Credit Agreements and to fund future acquisitions and our ability to obtain the necessary funding is uncertain.. We will need to raise additional funding to meet the requirements of the terms and conditions of our Credit Agreements. Additionally, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, via the sale of assets or through other various means to fund our obligations, or acquire assets and businesses in the future. In such a case, adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. If we need to raise additional funds in the future, by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result, and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future and we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from new business arrangements, to complete planned acquisitions or operations, our results of operations and the value of our securities could be adversely affected. Future funding may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and other obligations due to events beyond our control.. Our ability to generate cash flows from operations, to make scheduled payments on or refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our future financial performance and our ability to generate cash in the future. Our future financial performance will be affected by a range of economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors that we cannot control, such as general economic, legislative, regulatory and financial conditions in our industry, the economy generally, the price of oil and other risks described below. A significant reduction in operating cash flows resulting from changes in economic, legislative or regulatory conditions, increased competition or other events beyond our control could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and our ability to service our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, seeking additional capital, or any combination of the foregoing. If we raise additional debt, it would increase our interest expense, leverage and our operating and financial costs. We cannot assure you that any of these alternative strategies could be affected on satisfactory. 15. terms, if at all, or that they would yield sufficient funds to make required payments on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Reducing or delaying capital expenditures or selling assets could delay future cash flows. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.. If for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness, which would allow our creditors at that time to declare all of our outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable. This would likely in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between our applicable debt agreements. Under these circumstances, our lenders could compel us to apply all of our available cash to repay our borrowings. In addition, the lenders under our credit facilities or other secured indebtedness could seek to foreclose on our assets that are their collateral. If the amounts outstanding under our indebtedness were to be accelerated, or were the subject of foreclosure actions, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders.. Uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business partners.. Our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on the state of the credit and capital markets, which is beyond our control. Our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, access to those markets, which could constrain our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. Protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity hedging counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us.. From time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities. From time to time, we may need to supplement cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. Uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions to fund their commitments to us under our liquidity facilities. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of the funds available under our liquidity facilities to satisfy our cash requirements, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position.. We have substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial flexibility and our competitive position. Our debt agreements have previously been declared in default, and our future failure to comply with financial covenants in our debt agreements could result in such debt agreements again being declared in default.. We have a significant amount of outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we owed approximately $10.3 million in accounts payable and accrued expenses. As of December 31, 2017, we owed $14.75 million  under the EBC Credit Agreement and $4.6 million under the Revolving Credit Agreement (each defined and described below under \"Part II. - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit and Guaranty Agreement and Revolving Credit Facility with Encina Business Credit, LLC\"), and are further required to redeem all outstanding Series B Preferred Stock and Series B1 Preferred Stock (which currently, as of date of filing, has a liquidation and redemption value of $26.1 million) on June 24, 2020.. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences and significant effects on our business. For example, it could:. • increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. • restrict us from taking advantage of business opportunities;. • make it more difficult to satisfy our financial obligations;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt obligations; and. 16. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes on satisfactory terms or at all.. We may need to raise additional funding in the future to repay or refinance the Credit Agreements and our accounts payable, and as such may need to seek additional debt or equity financing. Such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If debt financing is available and obtained, our interest expense may increase and we may be subject to the risk of default, depending on the terms of such financing. If equity financing is available and obtained it may result in our shareholders experiencing significant dilution. If such financing is unavailable, we may be forced to curtail our operations, which may cause the value of our securities to decline in value and/or become worthless. Furthermore, the fact that our prior credit agreements have previously been declared in default may negatively affect the perception of the Company and our ability to pay our debts as they become due in the future and could result in the price of our securities declining in value or being valued at lower levels than companies with similar histories of defaults.. The covenants in our credit and loan agreements restrict our ability to operate our business and might lead to a default under our credit agreements.. Our debt agreements limit, among other things, our ability to:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • create liens;. • make payments to junior creditors;. • make investments;. • sell material assets;. • affect fundamental changes in our structure;. • make certain acquisitions;. • sell interests in our subsidiaries;. • consolidate or merge with or into other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and. • engage in transactions with affiliates.. The Credit Agreements contain customary representations, warranties and requirements for the Company to indemnify the lenders and their affiliates. The Credit Agreements also include various covenants (positive and negative) binding upon the Company, including, prohibiting us from undertaking acquisitions or dispositions unless they meet the criteria set forth in the Credit Agreements, not incurring any capital expenditures in amount exceeding $3 million in any fiscal year that the Credit Agreements are in place, and requiring us to maintain at least $2.5 million of borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Agreement at any time.. As a result of these covenants and limitations, we may not be able to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. Our credit and loan agreements require, and our future credit facilities and loan agreements may require, us to maintain certain financial ratios and satisfy certain other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those tests. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or future credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such credit agreements, including accrued interest or other obligations, to be immediately due and payable. If amounts outstanding under such credit agreements were to be accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness.. Our credit agreements and loan agreements also contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions. Under these provisions, a default or acceleration under one instrument governing our debt may constitute a default under our other debt instruments that contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, which could result in the related debt and the debt issued. 17. under such other instruments becoming immediately due and payable. In such event, we would need to raise funds from alternative sources, which funds might not be available to us on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Alternatively, such a default could require us to sell assets and otherwise curtail operations to pay our creditors. The proceeds of such a sale of assets, or curtailment of operations, might not enable us to pay all of our liabilities.. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic and market conditions and financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditure, debt service and other liquidity needs, which could result in our inability to comply with financial and other covenants contained in our debt agreements, our being unable to repay or pay interest on our indebtedness, and our inability to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to service our debt obligations, fund our other liquidity needs and maintain compliance with our financial and other covenants, we could be forced to curtail our operations, our creditors could accelerate our indebtedness and exercise other remedies and we could be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets or refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness. However, such alternatives may not be feasible or adequate.. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the documents governing our existing and future indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity.. In connection with the Credit Agreements, we agreed to comply with certain affirmative and negative covenants and agreed to meet certain financial covenants (described in greater detail above under \"The covenants in our credit and loan agreements restrict our ability to operate our business and might lead to a default under our credit agreements\").. The Credit Agreements include customary events of default for facilities of a similar nature and size as the Credit Agreements, including if an event of default occurs under any agreement evidencing $500,000 or more of indebtedness of the Company; we fail to make any payment when due under any material agreement; subject to certain exceptions, any judgment is entered against the Company in an amount exceeding $500,000; and also provides that an event of default occurs if a change in control of the Company occurs, which includes if (a) Benjamin P. Cowart, the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board and largest shareholder and Chris Carlson, the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, cease to own and control legally and beneficially, collectively, either directly or indirectly, equity securities in Vertex Energy, Inc., representing more than 15% of the combined voting power of all securities entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent on a fully-diluted basis, (b) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any person or group of securities representing more than 30% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding securities of Vertex Energy, Inc., or (c) during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Company cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body.. A breach of any of the covenants of the Credit Agreements or any future agreements, if uncured, could lead to an event of default under any such document, which in some circumstances could give our creditors the right to demand that we accelerate repayment of amounts due and/or enforce their security interests over substantially all of our assets. This would likely in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights in other documents governing our indebtedness. Therefore, in the event of any such breach, we may need to seek covenant waivers or amendments from our creditors or seek alternative or additional sources of financing, and we may not be able to obtain any such waivers or amendments or alternative or additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, any covenant breach or event of default could harm our credit rating and our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity and/or cause our lenders to enforce their security interests which could ultimately result in the foreclosure of our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and the value of our securities.. 18. Our obligations under the Credit Agreements are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets.. Our obligations under the Credit Agreements are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets. Additionally, substantially all of our subsidiaries agreed to guarantee our obligations under the Credit Agreements. As such, our creditors may enforce their security interests over our assets and/or our subsidiaries which secure the repayment of such obligations, take control of our assets and operations, force us to seek bankruptcy protection, or force us to curtail or abandon our current business plans and operations. If that were to happen, any investment in the Company could become worthless.. If we are unable to maintain a credit facility, it could have an adverse effect on our business.. We have historically been able to maintain lines of credit and other credit facilities similar to the Credit Agreements. We rely heavily on the availability and utilization of these lines of credit and credit facilities for our operations and for the purchase of inventory. If we are unable to renew or replace our facility or are unable to borrow funds under such facility or any future facility, we may be forced to curtail or abandon our current and/or future planned business operations.. A decline in expected profitability of the Company or any of our business divisions could result in the impairment of assets and other long-lived assets, including goodwill.. We hold material amounts of long-lived assets on our balance sheet. A decline in expected profitability of one of our operating segments or a decline in the global economy, could call into question the recoverability of our related goodwill, other long-lived tangible and intangible assets, and require us to write down or write off these assets. Such an occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our annual results of operations and financial position.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS, BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY. General Risks. The price of oil and fluctuations in oil prices may have a negative effect on our results of operations.. The majority of our operations are associated with collecting used oil, re-refining or otherwise processing a portion of such used oil and then selling both such re-refined/processed oil and the excess feedstock oil which we do not currently have the capacity to re-refine, to other customers. The prices at which we sell our re-refined/processed oil and extra feedstock are affected by changes in the reported spot market prices of oil. If applicable rates increase or decrease, we typically will charge a higher or lower corresponding price for our re-refined/processed oil and excess feedstock. The price at which we sell our re-refined/processed oil and excess feedstock is affected by changes in certain indices measuring changes in the price of heavy fuel oil, with increases and decreases in the indices typically translating into a higher or lower price for our re-refined/processed oil and excess feedstock. The cost to collect used oil, including the amounts we pay to obtain a portion of our used oil and therefore ability to collect necessary volumes as well as the fuel costs of our oil collection fleet, typically also increases or decreases when the relevant indices increase or decrease. However, even though the prices we can charge for our re-refined/processed oil and excess feedstock and the costs to collect and re-refine/processed used oil typically increase and decrease together, there is no assurance that when our costs to collect and re-refine/process used oil increase we will be able to increase the prices we charge for our re-refined/processed oil excess feedstock to cover such increased costs, or that our costs to collect and re-refine/process used oil will decline when the prices we can charge for re-refined/processed oil declines. These risks are exacerbated when there are rapid fluctuations in these oil indices.. In addition to the above, the value of re-refined and processed used oil is usually greater the more expensive oil is. As the price of oil decreases so does the spread between re-refined/processed used oil and refined oil and extremely low oil prices, such as the global markets experienced during fiscal 2015 and 2016, customers will often be willing to pay the slightly higher cost of refined oil rather than paying for re-refined/processed oil. Furthermore, as the price of oil decreases, the price we can charge for re-refined/processed oil decreases, and while in general the cost of our feedstocks decrease, the fixed prices required to process such feedstock and operate our plans remain fixed. As such, in the event the price of oil remains low and we are not able to increase the prices we charge for re-refined/processed oil, our margins will likely decrease and it may not become economically feasible to continue to operate our facilities. In the event that were to occur we may be forced to shut down our facilities.. The occurrence of any of the events described above could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could in turn cause the value of our securities to decline in value.. 19. The prices of many of our products are subject to significant volatility.. Our principal products include marine fuel cutterstock and a higher-value feedstock for further processing, vacuum oil gas, base oil that is sold to lubricant packagers and distributors, pygas, gasoline blendstock and marine fuel cutterstock. The prices of these products are tied to the value of oil. Accordingly, our results of operations will be affected by fluctuations in the prevailing market price for oil. Historically, market prices for oil have fluctuated in response to a number of factors, including global changes in supply and demand resulting from changes in local and global economic conditions, changes in energy policies of U.S. and foreign governments, changes in international trading policies, OPEC, and other factors. While we seek to mitigate the risks associated with price declines, including in some situations, by using hedging, a significant decrease in the market price of any of our products or of oil would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. Furthermore, rapid and material changes in feedstock prices generally have an immediate and, often times, material impact on the Company's gross margin and profitability resulting from the lag effect or lapse of time from the procurement of the feedstock until they are re-refined/processed and the finished products are sold. Our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in the future by this volatility.. Our TCEP only makes commercial sense when the market price for oil is high.. We are currently utilizing TCEP to pre-treat our used motor oil feedstocks prior to shipping them to our facility at Marrero. We have not operated our TCEP for the purpose of producing finished cutterstock since the third quarter of fiscal 2015. As the price of oil decreased sharply in fiscal 2016, we determined that it did not make economic sense to run our TCEP, which generates the greatest margins when oil prices are high. When oil prices are low, like they are currently, the fixed costs of TCEP are greater than the price we can charge for re-refined oil we can create using such technology. In the event oil prices remain low, moving forward we anticipate not operating TCEP, nor do we anticipate generating any revenues through the use of such technology and processes.. Downturns and volatility in global economies and commodity and credit markets could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations are materially affected by the conditions of the global economies and the credit, commodities and stock markets. Among other things, we may be adversely impacted if our customers and suppliers are not able to access sufficient capital to continue to operate their businesses or to operate them at prior levels. A decline in consumer confidence or changing patterns in the availability and use of disposable income by consumers can negatively affect both our suppliers and customers. Declining discretionary consumer spending or the loss or impairment of a meaningful number of our suppliers or customers could lead to a dislocation in either feedstock availability or customer demand. Any tightening in credit supply could negatively affect our customers' ability to pay for our products on a timely basis or at all and could result in a requirement for additional bad debt reserves. Although many of our customer contracts are formula-based, continued volatility in the oil market could negatively impact our revenues and overall profits. Counterparty risk on finished product sales can also impact revenue and operating profits when customers either are unable to obtain credit or refuse to take delivery of finished products due to market price declines.. If we are unable to retain current, and attain new customers, our revenue and cash flows could be reduced to levels that could adversely affect our results of operations.. Any of the following factors:. • a material decrease in the supply or price of crude oil or petroleum related products in which we deal;. • a material decrease in demand for the finished products in the markets we serve;. • scheduled refinery turnarounds or unscheduled maintenance; and. • operational problems or catastrophic events at any of our facilities,. could result in our inability to maintain current customers or attain new customers. If that were to happen our results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline in value.. 20. We are dependent on third parties for the disposal of our waste streams.. We do not own any waste disposal sites. As a result, we are dependent on third parties for the disposal of waste streams. To date, disposal vendors have met their requirements but they may not continue to do so. If for some reason our current disposal vendors cannot perform up to standards, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe there are a number of potential replacement disposal vendors that could provide such services, we may incur additional costs and delays in identifying and qualifying such replacements. In addition, any mishandling of our waste streams by disposal vendors could expose us to liability. Any failure by disposal vendors to properly collect, transport, handle or dispose of our waste streams could expose us to liability, damage our reputation and generally have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are dependent on third party generators and collectors for our feedstock.. Generators are entities that generate used oil through their daily operations such as automotive businesses conducting oil changes on consumer and commercial vehicles and industrial users changing lubricants on machinery and heavy equipment.. Collectors are typically local businesses that purchase used oil from generators and provide on-site collection services. The collection market is highly fragmented and we believe there are more than 400 used oil collectors in the United States.. We depend on generators to generate used oil feedstock and collectors to collect such feedstock. In the event a significant number of generators cease generating feedstock, or generators and collectors cease providing us their feedstock or otherwise materially change the current process by which feedstock is collected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Worsening economic conditions and trends and downturns in the business cycles of the industries we serve and which provide services to us would impact our business and operating results.. A significant portion of our customer base is comprised of companies in the chemical manufacturing and hydrocarbon recovery industries. The overall levels of demand for our products, refining operations, and future planned re-refined oil products are driven by fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in the U.S., as well as regional economic conditions. For example, many of our principal consumers are themselves heavily dependent on general economic conditions, including the price of fuel and energy, availability of affordable credit and capital, employment levels, interest rates, consumer confidence and housing demand. These cyclical shifts in our customers' businesses may result in fluctuations in demand, volumes, pricing and operating margins for our services and products.. In addition to our customers, the suppliers of our feedstock may also be affected by downturns in the economy and adverse changes in the price of feedstock. For example, we previously experienced difficulty obtaining feedstock from our suppliers who, because of the sharp downturn in the price of oil (used and otherwise) have seen their margins decrease substantially, which in some cases have made it uneconomical for such suppliers to purchase feedstock from their suppliers and/or sell to us at the rates set forth in their contracts. Any similar decline in the price of oil and/or the economy in general could create a decrease in the supply of feedstock, prevent us from maintaining our required levels of output and/or force us to seek additional suppliers of feedstock, who may charge more than our current suppliers, and therefore adversely affect our results of operations.. Our operating margins and profitability may be negatively impacted by changes in fuel and energy costs.. We transport our feedstock, refined oil and re-refined oil, VGO and other materials with trucks and by rail. As a result, increases in shipping and transportation costs caused by increases in oil, gasoline and diesel prices have a significant impact on our operating expenses. The price and supply of oil and gas is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, natural disasters, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. A significant increase in transportation or fuel costs could lower our operating margins and negatively impact our profitability.. Additionally, the price at which we sell our refined oil and our re-refined oil, VGO and other materials is affected by changes in certain oil indexes. If the relevant oil index rises, we anticipate being able to increase the prices for our refined and re-refined oil. If the relevant oil index declines, we anticipate having to reduce prices for our refined and re-refined oil. However, the cost to collect used oil and refinery feedstock, including the amounts that must be paid to obtain used oil and feedstock, generally also increases or decreases when the relevant index increases or decreases. Even though the prices that can be charged for our refined and re-refined products and the costs to collect, refine, and re-refine the feedstock generally increase and decrease together, if the costs to collect, refine and re-refine used oil and petrochemical products increase in the future, we may not be able to increase. 21. the prices we charge for our refined and re-refined products to cover such increased costs. Additionally, the costs to collect, refine and re-refine used oil and petrochemical products may not decline if the prices we can charge for our products decline. If the prices we charge for our finished products and the costs to collect, refine and re-refine products do not move together or in similar magnitudes, our profitability may be materially and negatively impacted.. We are vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth.. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced, and the continued growth that we expect to experience organically and through acquisitions. Our growth places additional demands and responsibilities on our management to, among other things, maintain existing suppliers and customers and attract, recruit, retain and effectively manage employees, as well as expand operations. The following factors could present difficulties to us: lack of sufficient executive-level personnel and increased administrative burden; availability of suitable acquisition candidates, trucks, barges, tanks, rail cars and processing facilities; and the ability to provide focused service attention to our customers, among others.. Our contracts may not be renewed and our existing relationships may not continue, which could be exacerbated by the fact that a limited number of our customers represented a significant portion of our sales.. Our contracts and relationships in the black oil business include feedstock purchasing agreements with local waste oil collectors, feedstock sale agreements, a few key relationships in the bunkering, blending and No. 6 oil industry, and other relationships. Because our operations are extremely dependent on the black oil key bunkering, blending and No. 6 oil relationships as well as our third-party refining contracts, if we were to lose relationships, there would be a material adverse effect on our operations and results of operations. Additionally, if we were to lose any of our current local waste oil collectors, we could be required to spend additional resources locating and providing incentives for other waste oil collectors, which could cause our expenses to increase and/or cause us to curtail or abandon our business plans.. A significant portion of our historical revenues are a result of our agreement with KMTEX.. We have an agreement in place with KMTEX, which specializes in the custom processing of petrochemicals and other chemicals. Our services include terminal storage and expert project management in materials handling, distillation, filtration, molecular sieve, and reaction chemistry, pursuant to which KMTEX agreed to process feedstock of certain petroleum distillates, which we provide to KMTEX to process into more valuable feedstocks, including pygas, gasoline blendstock and cutterstock, which agreement currently expires on December 31, 2018, provided that if not terminated by either party by written notice to the other, received within ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the initial term or any extension term, the agreement automatically renews for up to six additional one (1) year periods. However, either party can terminate the agreement at any time with ninety days prior written notice for any reason and with thirty days written notice upon the occurrence of certain material termination events as described in greater detail in the agreement. If KMTEX were to terminate our relationship and/or not agree to renew our agreement with it, we would be forced to spend resources attempting to locate another party which we could supply our feedstock which could take substantial time, if such alternative party is even available. If we are able to find another contracting party, the terms of the understanding or agreement with such contracting party may be on terms less favorable to us and/or may force us to transport our feedstock a greater distance. As a result of the above, if we were to lose our relationship with KMTEX our expenses may increase, our results of operations may decrease and/or it may cause us to curtail or abandon our business plans, all of which would likely cause the value of our securities to decrease in value.. We operate in competitive markets, and there can be no certainty that we will maintain our current customers or attract new customers or that our operating margins will not be impacted by competition.. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with numerous local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources in our refining and feedstock consolidation operations, transportation services, feedstock collection and aggregation and used oil recycling, and we compete with larger oil companies, with significantly greater resources than us, in our oil re-refining operations. We expect competition to intensify in the future. Furthermore, numerous well-established companies are focusing significant resources on providing used oil collection, transportation, refining and re-refining services that will compete with our services. We may not be able to effectively compete with these other companies and competitive pressures, including possible downward pressure on the prices we charge for our products and services, may arise. In the event that we cannot effectively compete on a continuing basis, or competitive pressures arise, such inability to compete or competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Disruptions in the supply of feedstock and/or increases in the cost of feedstock could have an adverse effect on our business.. 22. We depend on the continuing availability of raw materials, including feedstock, to remain in production. Additionally, we depend on the price of such raw materials, including feedstock being reasonable to us in relation to the prices we are able to receive for our final products. A serious disruption in supply of feedstock, or significant increases in the prices of feedstock, could significantly reduce the availability of raw materials at our plants and which are available to be processed by our third-party processors. Additionally, increases in production costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. For example, we have previously experienced difficulty in obtaining feedstock from our suppliers who, because of the sharp downturn in the price of oil (used and otherwise) have seen their margins decrease substantially, which in some cases has made it uneconomical for such suppliers to purchase feedstock from their suppliers and/or sell to us at the rates set forth in their contracts. Any similar decline in the price of oil and/or the economy in general could create a decrease in the supply of feedstock, prevent us from maintaining our required levels of output and/or force us to seek out additional suppliers of feedstock, who may charge more than our current suppliers, and therefore adversely affect our results of operations.. Our reliance on small business customers causes us to be subject to the trends and downturns that impact small businesses, which could adversely affect our business.. Our feedstock customer base is primarily composed of small businesses in the vehicle repair and manufacturing industries. The high concentration of our feedstock customers that are small businesses exposes us to significant risk.  Small businesses start, close, relocate, and are acquired and sold frequently. In addition, small businesses are often impacted more significantly by economic recessions when compared to larger businesses. As a result, we must continually identify new feedstock customers and expand our business with existing feedstock customers in order to sustain our growth and feedstock supply. If we experience a rise in levels of customer turnover, it may have a negative impact on the profitability of our business.. Unanticipated problems at, or downtime effecting, our facilities and those operated by third parties on which we rely, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our ability to process feedstocks depends on our ability to operate our refining/processing operations and facilities, and those operated by third parties on which we rely, including, but not limited to KMTEX, and the total time that such facilities are online and operational. The occurrence of significant unforeseen conditions or events in connection with the operation or maintenance of such facilities, such as the need to refurbish such facilities, shortages of workers or materials, adverse weather, including, but not limited to lightning strikes, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, equipment failures, fires, explosions, oil or other leaks, damage to or destruction of property and equipment associated therewith, environmental releases and/or damage, government regulation changes affecting the use of such facilities, terrorist attacks, mechanical or physical failures of equipment, acts of God, or other conditions or events, could prevent us from operating our facilities, or prevent such third parties from operating their facilities, or could force us or such third parties to shut such facilities down for repairs, maintenance, refurbishment or upgrades for a significant period of time. In the event any of our facilities or those of third parties on which we rely are offline for an extended period of time it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and consequently the price of our securities.. The fees charged to customers under our agreements with them may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs and the agreements may be suspended in some circumstances, which would affect our profitability.. Under our agreements with our customers, we may be unable to increase the fees that we charge our customers at a rate sufficient to offset any increases in our costs. Additionally, some customers' obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events. Force majeure events may include (but are not limited to) events such as revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities of our customers. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs or if any customer suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected.. Improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Because our business depends on the demand for oil and used oil, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies (such as wind, solar, geothermal, fuel cells and biofuels) that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil, used oil and oil and used oil related products could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 23. Improvements in or new methodologies or technology relating to the refining and re-refining of used oil feedstocks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In the event our competitors or future competitors design or implement new methodologies or new technology relating to the refining or re-refining of used oil feedstock it could reduce demand for our processes, or make such processes commercially irrelevant. In the event we are not able to duplicate or license such new methodologies or technology it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to operational and safety risks, including the risk of personal injury to employees and others.. Our operations involve risks such as truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures. Additionally, our operations are subject to risk associated with releases of oil and other materials. Operation of our facilities involves additional risks of fire and explosion. Any of these risks could potentially result in injury or death of employees and others, a need to shut down or reduce operation of facilities, increased operating expense and exposure to liability for pollution and other environmental damage, and property damage or destruction.. While we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training, compliance and response and recovery programs, as well as vehicle and equipment maintenance programs, if we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of any applicable insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Any such incidents could also tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. Additionally, a major operational failure, even if suffered by a competitor, may bring enhanced scrutiny and regulation of our industry, with a corresponding increase in operating expense.. We may be subject to citizen opposition and negative publicity due to public concerns over our operations and planned future operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. There currently exists a high level of public concern over hazardous waste and refining and re-refining operations, including with respect to the location and operation of transfer, processing, storage and disposal facilities. Part of our business strategy is to increase our re-refining capacity through the construction of new facilities in growth markets. Zoning, permit and licensing applications and proceedings, as well as regulatory enforcement proceedings, are all matters open to public scrutiny and comment. Accordingly, from time to time we may be subject to citizen opposition and publicity which may damage our reputation and delay or limit the planned expansion and development of future facilities or operations or impair our ability to renew existing permits, any of which could prevent us from implementing our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We depend heavily on the services of our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Benjamin P. Cowart.. Our success depends heavily upon the personal efforts and abilities of Benjamin P. Cowart, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, who is employed by us pursuant to an employment contract which continues in effect until December 31, 2018, provided that the agreement automatically extends for additional one year terms thereafter in the event neither party provides the other at least 60 days prior notice of their intention not to renew the terms of the agreement. We do not currently have any \"key man\" life insurance policy in place for Mr. Cowart. The loss of Mr. Cowart or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the absence of Mr. Cowart may force us to seek a replacement who may have less experience or who may not understand our business as well, or we may not be able to find a suitable replacement.. 24. Unanticipated problems or delays in building our facilities to the proper specifications may harm our business and viability.. Our future growth will depend on our ability to timely and economically complete and operate our re-refining facilities and operate our existing refining operations and facilities. If our operations are disrupted or our economic integrity is threatened for unexpected reasons, our business may experience a substantial setback. Moreover, the occurrence of significant unforeseen conditions or events in connection with the construction of our planned facilities may require us to reexamine our business model. Any change to our business model or management's evaluation of the viability of our planned services may adversely affect our business. Construction costs for our future facilities may also increase to a level that would make a new facility too expensive to complete or unprofitable to operate. Contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers also receive requests and orders from other companies and, therefore, we may not be able to secure their services or products on a timely basis or on acceptable financial terms. We may suffer significant delays or cost overruns as a result of a variety of factors, such as increases in the prices of raw materials, shortages of workers or materials, transportation constraints, adverse weather, equipment failures, fires, damage to or destruction of property and equipment, environmental damage, unforeseen difficulties or labor issues, any of which could prevent us from beginning or completing construction or commencing operations at future re-refining facilities.. Strategic relationships on which we rely are subject to change.. Our ability to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with feedstock suppliers and refined and re-refined oil clients depends on developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants. Our success in this area also depends on our ability to select and evaluate suitable projects as well as to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. These factors are subject to change and may impair our ability to grow.. Disruptions to infrastructure and our and our partner's facilities could materially and adversely affect our business.. Our business depends on the continuing availability of road, railroad, port, storage and distribution infrastructure and our re-refining facilities. Any disruptions in this infrastructure network or such re-refining facilities, whether caused by labor difficulties, earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters, human error or malfeasance or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third parties to maintain the rail lines from our plants to the national rail network, and any failure by these third parties to maintain the lines could impede the delivery of products, impose additional costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, previous damage to our terminal facility located at Cedar Marine Terminal in Baytown, Texas as a result of Hurricane Ike in 2008 (which caused the terminal to temporarily be out of operation) resulted in increased costs associated with the shipping of feedstock through third-party contractors, thereby raising the overall cost of the feedstock and lowering our margins. Additional hurricanes or natural disasters in the future could cause similar damage to our infrastructure, prevent us from generating revenues while such infrastructure is undergoing repair (if repairable) and/or cause our margins and therefore our results of operations to be adversely affected.. Additionally, we also experienced a fire at our Heartland facility in February 2016, which took the facility offline for repairs for a period of time. Any prolonged period during which the facilities we operate or acquire are non-operational or operational on a limited basis due to the decision to refurbish or upgrade such facilities, due to accidents or events which occur at such facilities, including, but not limited to fires, floods or other acts of God, or any other reason, including problems with the facilities, could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Furthermore, any period during which KMTEX's facilities or our other facilities are offline could have an adverse effect on our revenues, force us to seek alternative re-refining facilities (which may be more expensive or require us to transport our feedstock over longer distances) and may increase our expenses, decreasing our operating margins.. Negative publicity may harm our operations and we may face additional expenses due to such negative publicity.. Only a relatively small number of entities operate in our industry including competitors, feedstock suppliers, re-refining operators, purchasers of our products and transportation companies. If issues arise with our products or third parties (including entities which operate in our industry) allege issues with our products, even if no issues with such products exist, such negative publicity may force us to change service providers, undertake certain transportation activities ourselves, at higher costs than third parties would charge, or cause certain of our buyers, sellers or service providers to cease working with us. The result of such actions may result in our expenses increasing, a decrease in our ability to purchase feedstock, or our ability to sell or transport our resulting products, which could cause our revenues to decrease and/or expenses to increase, which could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection of our intellectual property.. 25. Our success will depend in part on our ability to maintain or obtain and enforce patent rights and other intellectual property protection for our technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. We currently have five registered patents in the United States (none, internationally). If we file additional patent applications for our technologies in the future, such patents may not be granted and the scope of any claims granted in any patent may not provide us with proprietary protection or a competitive advantage. Furthermore, our current patents, or future patents, if granted, may not be valid and may not afford us with protection against competitors with similar technology. The failure to obtain or maintain patents or other intellectual property protection on the technologies underlying our technologies may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business prospects. It is also possible that our technologies may infringe on patents or other intellectual property rights owned by others. We may have to alter our products or processes, pay licensing fees, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court, or cease activities altogether because of patent rights of third parties, thereby causing additional unexpected costs and delays to it. A license may not be available to us, if at all, upon terms and conditions acceptable to us and we may not prevail in any intellectual property litigation. Intellectual property litigation is costly and time consuming, and we may not have sufficient resources to pursue such litigation. If we do not obtain a license under such intellectual property rights, are found liable for infringement or are not able to have such patents declared invalid, we may be liable for significant money damages and may encounter significant delays in bringing products to market.. Competition may impair our success.. New technologies may be developed by others that could compete with our refining and re-refining technologies. In addition, we face competition from other producers of oil substitutes and related products. Such competition is expected to be intense and could significantly drive down the price for our products. Competition will likely increase as prices of energy in the commodities market, including refined and re-refined oil, rise. Additionally, new companies are constantly entering the market, thus increasing the competition even further. These companies may have greater success in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees, as well as in conducting their own refining and re-refining operations, and may have greater access to feedstock, market presence, economies of scale, financial resources and engineering, technical and marketing capabilities, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, actual or potential competitors may be strengthened through the acquisition of additional assets and interests. If we are unable to compete effectively or adequately respond to competitive pressures, this may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and could also have a negative impact on our ability to obtain additional capital from investors.. Potential competition from our existing employees could negatively impact our profitability.. Although Mr. Cowart and certain other employees of ours are prohibited from competing with us while they are employed with us and for six months thereafter, none of such individuals will be prohibited from competing with us after such six-month period ends. Accordingly, any of these individuals could be in a position to use industry experience gained while working with us to compete with us. Such competition could increase our costs to obtain feedstock, and increase our costs for contracting use of operating assets and services such as third-party refining capacity, trucking services or terminal access. Furthermore, such competition could distract or confuse customers, reduce the value of our intellectual property and trade secrets, or result in a reduction in the prices we are able to obtain for our finished products. Any of the foregoing could reduce our future revenues, earnings or growth prospects.. Competition due to advances in renewable fuels may lessen the demand for our products and negatively impact our profitability.. Alternatives to petroleum-based products and production methods are continually under development. For example, a number of automotive, industrial and power generation manufacturers are developing alternative clean power systems using fuel cells or clean-burning gaseous fuels that may address increasing worldwide energy costs, the long-term availability of petroleum reserves and environmental concerns, which if successful could lower the demand for our services. If these non-petroleum based products and oil alternatives continue to expand and gain broad acceptance such that the overall demand for our products is reduced, we may not be able to compete effectively in the marketplace.. We will rely on new technology to conduct our business, including TCEP and our technology could become ineffective or obsolete.. We will be required to continually enhance and update our technology to maintain our efficiency and to avoid obsolescence. Currently TCEP is not producing product because the total revenues and gross profit margins are below the Company's expectations.. 26. Additionally, the costs moving forward of enhancing and updating and/or replicating our technology or creating new technology may be substantial and may be higher than the costs that we anticipated for technology maintenance and development. If we are unable to maintain the efficiency of our technology, replicate our technology, or create new technologies our ability to manage our business and to compete may be impaired. Even if we are able to maintain technical effectiveness, our technology may not be the most efficient means of reaching our objectives, in which case we may incur higher operating costs than we would if our technology was more effective. The impact of these potential future technical shortcomings, including but not limited to the failure of TCEP, and/or the costs associated with enhancing or replicating TCEP could have a material adverse effect on our prospects, business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our operations would be negatively affected if we are unable to use our facilities in the future.. If we were not able to use any one or more of our facilities moving forward, our ability to generate revenue and compete in the marketplace would be negatively affected.  If we are unable to use our facilities for any reason, we will not be able to effectively generate revenue or compete with additional technologies brought to market by our competitors, the volume of our finished products, would decline and our finished products could be worth less and if our competitors are willing to pay more for feedstock than we are, they could drive up prices, which would cause our revenues to decrease, and cause our cost of sales to increase, respectively. Additionally, if we are forced to pay more for feedstock, our cash flows will be negatively impacted and our margins will decrease.. Our business is subject to local, legal, political, and economic factors which are beyond our control.. We believe that the current political environment for refining and re-refining facilities is sufficiently supportive to enable us to continue to operate our facilities and in the future plan and implement the construction of additional facilities; however, there are risks that conditions will change in an adverse manner.  These risks include, but are not limited to, environmental issues, land use, air emissions, water use, zoning, workplace safety, restrictions imposed on the re-refining industry such as restrictions on production, substantial changes in product quality standards, restrictions on feedstock supply, price controls and export controls. Any changes in financial incentives, investment regulations, policies or a shift in political attitudes are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business, plans for future facilities, and future financial results.. Additionally, the U.S. Departments of Transportation, Coast Guard and Homeland Security and various federal, state, local and foreign agencies exercise broad powers over our transportation operations, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and permits to conduct transportation business. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations that the Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency or other authorities impose, including regulations relating to engine exhaust emissions, the hours of service that our drivers may provide in any one-time period, security and other matters. Compliance with these regulations could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business may be harmed by anti-terrorism measures.. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on the United States and increased concerns regarding future terrorist attacks, federal, state and municipal authorities implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Although many companies are adversely affected by slowdowns in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. For example, if the security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries of feedstock, we may not have sufficient feedstock to run our re-refining processes at full capacity, or may incur increased expenses to do so. These measures may significantly increase our costs and reduce our operating margins and income.. Our business is geographically concentrated and is therefore subject to regional economic downturns.. Our operations and customers are concentrated principally in the Gulf Coast, upper Midwest, and Mid-Atlantic. Therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations are susceptible to regional economic downturns and other regional factors, including state regulations and budget constraints and severe weather conditions. In addition, as we seek to expand in our existing markets, opportunities for growth within this region may become more limited and the geographic concentration of our business may increase.. 27. If we cannot maintain adequate insurance coverage, we will be unable to continue certain operations.. Our business exposes us to various risks, including claims for causing damage to property and injuries to persons that may involve allegations of negligence or professional errors or omissions in the performance of our services. Such claims could be substantial. We believe that our insurance coverage is presently adequate and similar to, or greater than, the coverage maintained by other similarly situated companies in the industry. If we are unable to obtain adequate or required insurance coverage in the future, or if such insurance is not available at affordable rates, we could be in violation of our permit conditions and other requirements of the environmental laws, rules and regulations under which we operate. Such violations could render us unable to continue certain of our operations. These events could result in an inability to operate certain assets and significantly impair our financial condition.. Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience.. We maintain insurance coverage, but these policies do not cover all of our potential losses, costs or liabilities. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage, which would significantly affect our financial performance. Our insurance policies also have deductibles and self-retention limits that could expose us to significant financial expense. Our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business requires that we maintain various types of insurance. If such insurance is not available or not available on economically acceptable terms, our business would be materially and adversely affected.. Claims above our insurance limits, or significant increases in our insurance premiums, may reduce our profitability.. We currently employ 57 full-time drivers. From time to time, some of these employee drivers are involved in automobile accidents. We currently carry liability insurance of $1,000,000 for our drivers, subject to applicable deductibles, and carry umbrella coverage up to $25,000,000. We currently employ over 200 employees. Claims against us may exceed the amounts of available insurance coverage. If we were to experience a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, liability claims or workers' compensation claims or unfavorable resolutions of claims, our operating results could be materially affected.. Litigation related to personal injury from the operation of our business may result in significant liabilities and limit our profitability.. The hazards and risks associated with the transport, storage, and handling, treatment and disposal of used oil and other hydrocarbon products (such as fires, spills, explosions and accidents) may expose us to personal injury claims, property damage claims and/or products liability claims from our employees, customers or third parties. As protection against such claims and operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, we may sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of any future claims or lawsuits, and we may be held liable for significant personal injury or damage to property or third parties, or other losses, that are not fully covered by our insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The litigation environment in which we operate poses a significant risk to our businesses.. We may be involved from time to time in the ordinary course of business in lawsuits involving employment, commercial, and environmental issues, other claims for injuries and damages, and shareholder and class action litigation, among other matters. We may experience negative outcomes in such lawsuits in the future. Any such negative outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We evaluate litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from such assessments and estimates. The settlement or resolution of such claims or proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, judges and juries in certain jurisdictions in which we conduct business have demonstrated a willingness to grant large verdicts, including punitive damages, to plaintiffs in personal injury, property damage and other tort cases. We use appropriate means to contest litigation threatened or filed against us, but the litigation environment in these areas poses a significant business risk to us and could cause a significant diversion of management resources and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 28. We operate our business through many locations, and if we are unable to effectively oversee all of these locations, our business reputation and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Because we operate through various different facilities located throughout the United States, we are subject to risks related to our ability to oversee these locations. If in the future we are unable to effectively oversee our locations, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected, we could fail to comply with environmental regulations, we could lose customers, we could lose control of inventory and other assets, and our business could be materially adversely affected.. Increases in energy costs will affect our operating results and financial condition.. Our production costs will be dependent on the costs of the energy sources used to run our facilities and to procure feedstock. These costs are subject to fluctuations and variations, and we may not be able to predict or control these costs. If these costs exceed our expectations, this may adversely affect our results of operations.. Fluctuations in fuel costs could impact our operating expenses and results.. We operate a fleet of transportation, collection and aggregation trucks to collect and transport used oil and re-refined oil products, among other things. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events beyond our control, including, among others, geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regional production patterns. We have experienced increases in the cost of fuel over the past several years. Although in the past, we have been able to pass-through some of these costs to our customers, we may not be able to continue to do so in the future. A significant increase in our fuel or other transportation costs could lower our operating margins and negatively impact our profitability.. Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting fully from increases in oil prices and may expose us to other risks, including counterparty risk.. We use derivative instruments to hedge the impact of fluctuations in oil prices on our results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to protect ourselves against commodity price declines, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of increases in oil prices above the prices established by our hedging contracts. In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the counterparties to our hedging contracts fail to perform under the contracts. Finally, we are subject to risks associated with the adoption of derivatives legislation and regulations (including under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act) related to derivative contracts which if adopted, could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. If regulations adopted in the future require that we post margin for our hedging activities or require our counterparties to hold margin or maintain capital levels, the cost of which could be passed through to us, or impose other requirements that are more burdensome than current regulations, hedging transactions in the future would become more expensive than we experienced in the past.. Competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage.. The refining and re-refining industries are highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined/re-refined product markets. We compete with many companies for available supplies of feedstocks and for outlets for our products. We do not produce any of our feedstocks. Some of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from their own production and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have. Competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets (and greater brand-name recognition) are at times able to offset losses from their operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed margins or feedstock shortages.. Some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have. Such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our business. In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers.. Risks Relating to Accounting and Internal Controls. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a fully reporting company in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives.. 29. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses in connection with our status as a fully reporting public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. As such, our management and other personnel are required to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure of controls and procedures. Our testing may, and has in the past, revealed deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge to comply with such compliance requirements. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forwards may be subject to limitation.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, substantial changes in our ownership may limit the amount of net operating loss carry-forwards that could be utilized annually in the future to offset our taxable income. Specifically, this limitation may arise in the event of a cumulative change in ownership of our company of more than 50% within a three-year period. Any such annual limitation may significantly reduce the utilization of our net operating loss carry-forwards before they expire. At December 31, 2017, the net operating loss carry-forwards reflect a reduction of approximately $32.5 million resulting from a 382 study which was completed during 2016. Transactions that may occur in the future may trigger an ownership change pursuant to Section 382, and prior transactions may be deemed to have triggered an ownership change pursuant to Section 382, the result of which could limit the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that we can utilize annually to offset our taxable income, if any. Any such limitation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our inventory is subject to significant impairment charges in the event the prices of oil and gas fall sharply after such inventory is acquired.. We did not have an inventory impairment charge for the periods ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. In the event, commodity prices fall sharply during any period requiring the Company to take a non-cash charge/adjustment to the value of our products in inventory taking into account the lower market value for the products being held for sale. Similar significant impairment charges could negatively affect our balance sheet, result in us not meeting certain debt ratios set forth in our credit and loan agreements, and negatively affect our cash flows. Future significant impairment charges and/or significant decreases in oil prices could have a material adverse effect on our balance sheet, debt covenants (including creating an event of default) and could further cause the value of our securities to decline in value.. Risks Relating to Acquisitions. Our strategy includes pursuing acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures and our potential inability to successfully integrate newly-acquired companies or businesses, or successfully manage our partnerships and joint ventures may adversely affect our financial results.. In the future, we may seek to grow our business by investing in new or existing facilities or technologies, making acquisitions (similar to the acquisitions of Omega and Heartland) or entering into partnerships and joint ventures. Acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or investments may require significant managerial attention, which may divert management from our other activities and may impair the operation of our existing businesses. Any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including:. • the failure to successfully integrate the acquired businesses or facilities or new technology into our operations;. • incurring significantly higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses;. • disrupting our ongoing business;. • dissipating our management resources;. 30. • failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies;. • the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships;. • loss of key personnel of the acquired business or facility;. • exposure to unanticipated liabilities; and. • the failure to realize efficiencies, synergies and cost savings.. We may also assume liabilities and environmental liabilities as part of acquisitions (including the Omega acquisition). Although we will endeavor to accurately estimate and limit liabilities and environmental liabilities presented by the businesses or facilities to be acquired, some liabilities, including ones that may exist only because of the past operations of an acquired business or facility, may prove to be more difficult or costly to address than we then estimate. It is also possible that government officials responsible for enforcing environmental laws may believe an environmental liability is more significant than we then estimate, or that we will fail to identify or fully appreciate an existing liability before we become legally responsible to address it. We may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, to the former owners of such properties in the event such liabilities are present. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of an acquired property, we might be required to pay significant sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our financial results and cash flow.. The consolidation of our operations with the operations of acquired companies, including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities, the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the same time. Fully integrating an acquired company or business into our operations may take a significant amount of time. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered with acquisitions. To the extent we do not successfully avoid or overcome the risks or problems related to any acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Future acquisitions also could impact our financial position and capital needs, and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and yearly results of operations. Acquisitions could include significant goodwill and intangible assets, which may result in future impairment charges that would reduce our stated earnings or increase our stated losses.. We may not successfully identify and complete acquisitions on favorable terms or achieve anticipated synergies relating to any acquisitions, and such acquisitions could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and require significant management resources.. We regularly review potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, services or products. However, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future. Even if we identify appropriate acquisition candidates, we may be unable to complete or finance such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired business, service or product into our existing business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may require significant management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or strategic alliance and such transactions may not generate anticipated financial results. Future acquisitions could also require us to incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or amortize expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could harm our business.. Our ability to make acquisitions may be adversely impacted by our outstanding indebtedness and by the price of our stock.. Our ability to make future business acquisitions, particularly those that would be financed solely or in part through cash from operations, may be curtailed due to our obligations to make payments of principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness. We may not have sufficient capital resources, now or in the future, and may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital resources on terms satisfactory to us, if at all, in order to meet our capital requirements for such acquisitions. In addition, the terms of our indebtedness include covenants that directly restrict, or have the effect of restricting, our ability to make certain acquisitions while this indebtedness remains outstanding. To the extent that the amount of our outstanding indebtedness has a negative impact on our stock price, using our common stock as consideration will be less attractive for potential acquisition candidates. The future trading price of our common stock could limit our willingness to use our equity as consideration and the willingness of sellers to accept our shares and as a result could limit the size and scope of our acquisition program. If we are unable to pursue strategic acquisitions that would enhance our business or operations, the potential growth of our business and revenues may be adversely affected.. 31. Legal, Environmental, Governmental and Regulatory Risks. Currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements.. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries and may be involved in governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. Many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities. The timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our results of operations and liquidity.. Climate change may adversely affect our facilities and our ongoing operations.. The potential physical effects of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic and environmental factors present. Examples of such effects include rising sea levels at our coastal facilities, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. As many of our facilities are located near coastal areas, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to operate those facilities or transport feedstock and products. Extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. We could also incur substantial costs to protect or repair these facilities.. We are subject to numerous environmental and other laws and regulations and, to the extent we are found to be in violation of any such laws and regulations, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. We are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment which, among other things:. • regulate the collection, transportation, handling, processing and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes;. • impose liability on persons involved in generating, handling, processing, transporting or disposing hazardous materials;. • impose joint and several liability for remediation and clean-up of environmental contamination; and. • require financial assurance that funds will be available for the closure and post-closure care of sites where hazardous wastes are stored, processed or disposed.. The breadth and complexity of all of these laws and regulations impacting us make consistent compliance extremely difficult and often result in increased operating and compliance costs, including requiring the implementation of new programs to promote compliance. Even with these programs, we and other companies in the industry are routinely faced with legal and administrative proceedings which can result in civil and criminal penalties, interruption of business operations, fines or other sanctions and require expenditures.. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable environmental laws or regulations, it could significantly increase our cost of doing business.. Additionally, under current law, we may be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired our assets and/or before we took control of our leased properties or if we arranged for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination. In the future, we may be subject to monetary fines, civil or criminal penalties, remediation, clean-up or stop orders, injunctions, orders to cease or suspend certain practices or denial of permits required to operate our facilities and conduct our operations. The outcome of any proceeding and associated costs and expenses could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition.. Our trucking operations are subject to a number of federal, state and local rules and regulations generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety compliance and reporting, contract compliance, insurance requirements, taxation and financial reporting. We could be subject to new or more restrictive regulations, such as regulations relating to engine emissions, drivers' hours of service, occupational safety and health, ergonomics or cargo security. Compliance. 32. with such regulations could substantially reduce equipment productivity, and the costs of compliance could increase our operating expenses.. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos-containing building materials, or ACBM, and may impose fines and penalties for failure to comply with these requirements. Such laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing ACBM (and employers in such buildings) properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately notify or train those who may come into contact with asbestos, and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building or plant. In addition, the presence of ACBM in our properties or plants may expose us to third-party liability (e.g., liability for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos).. Environmental laws and regulations are subject to change and may become increasingly stringent or relaxed. Interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, or the adoption of new laws and regulations, may require us to modify or curtail our operations or replace or upgrade our facilities or equipment at substantial costs which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. On the other hand, if new laws and regulations are less stringent, then our customers or competitors may be able to compete with us more effectively, without reliance on our services, which could decrease the need for our services and/or increase competition which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, if any.. We are required to obtain and maintain permits, licenses and approvals to conduct our operations in compliance with such laws and regulations. If we are unable to maintain our currently held permits, licenses and approvals, we may not be able to continue certain of our operations. If we are unable to obtain any additional permits, licenses and approvals which may be required as we expand our operations, we may be forced to curtail or abandon our current and/or future planned business operations.. Environmental risks and regulations may adversely affect our business.. All phases of designing, constructing and operating our refining and re-refining plants present environmental risks and hazards. We are subject to environmental regulation implemented or imposed by a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations as well as international conventions. Among other things, environmental legislation provides for restrictions and prohibitions on spills and discharges, as well as emissions of various substances produced in association with our operations. Legislation also requires that facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed in such a way that would satisfy applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which could be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner we expect may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, as well as potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The presence or discharge of pollutants in or into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties and may require us to incur costs to remedy such presence or discharge.. Environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements, and the potential for further expanded laws, regulations and permit requirements may increase our costs or reduce demand for our products and thereby negatively affect our business. Environmental permits required for our operations are subject to periodic renewal and may be revoked or modified for cause or when new or revised environmental requirements are implemented. Changing and increasingly strict environmental requirements and the potential for further expanded regulation may increase our costs and can affect the manufacturing, handling, processing, distribution and use of our products. If so affected, our business and operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, changes in these requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs in upgrading or redesigning our facilities and processes, including our waste treatment, storage, disposal and other waste handling practices and equipment. For these reasons, we may need to make capital expenditures beyond those currently anticipated to comply with existing or future environmental or safety laws. The application of environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements to our business may cause us to limit our production, significantly increase the costs of our operations and activities, reduce the market for our products or to otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our products.. There is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHGs, such as carbon dioxide and methane, may be linked to climate change. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs of our operations, transportation costs, feedstock costs and demand for our products (due to changes in both costs and weather patterns).. 33. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is generally reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal.. Depending on the scope of a particular program, we could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for GHG emissions resulting from our operations. Although most of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that smaller sources such as our operations could become subject to GHG-related regulation. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to control emissions or to purchase and surrender allowances for GHG emissions resulting from our operations. Independent of Congress, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has adopted regulations controlling GHG emissions under its existing Clean Air Act authority. For example, on December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In 2009, the EPA adopted rules regarding regulation of GHG emissions from motor vehicles. In 2010, EPA also issued a final rule, known as the \"Tailoring Rule,\" that makes certain large stationary sources and modification projects subject to permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the U.S. beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. None of our facilities currently generate enough greenhouse gasses to be subject to this reporting requirement under this rule, but we could become subject to such reporting requirements in the future.. Although it is not possible at this time to accurately estimate how potential future laws or regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any future federal laws or implementation of regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for our feedstocks and resulting products, and/or increase our transportation costs. The potential increase in the costs of our operations resulting from any legislation or regulation to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could include new or increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. While we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged for our products, such recovery of costs is uncertain. Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources could reduce demand for our products and/or lower the supply of our feedstocks. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations. Many scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate change that could have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations.. The adoption of regulations implementing recent financial reform legislation could impede our ability to manage business and financial risks by restricting our use of derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices.. The U.S. Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010 (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"). This comprehensive financial reform legislation establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (\"CFTC\"), the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. The CFTC has adopted regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or derivative instruments would be exempt from these position limits. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require compliance with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with certain derivative activities. The final rules will be phased in over time according to a specified schedule which is dependent on finalization of certain other rules to be promulgated by the CFTC and the SEC.. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of some commodity derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of some commodity derivative contracts and reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter. While we are not currently party to any commodity derivative contracts, we may enter into such contracts in the future and the Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations may have the effect of making our results of operations more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, if we are unable to enter into commodity derivative contracts or similar hedging transactions in the future. Finally, the Dodd- Frank Act was intended, in. 34. part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. If the Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations result in lower commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could be subject to involuntary shutdowns or be required to pay significant monetary damages or remediation costs if we are found to be a responsible party for the improper handling or the release of hazardous substances.. As a company engaged in the sale, handling, transportation, storage, recycling and disposal of materials that are or may be classified as hazardous by federal, state, provincial or other regulatory agencies, we face risks of liability for environmental contamination. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or \"CERCLA\" or Superfund, and similar state laws impose strict liability for clean-up costs on current or former owners and operators of facilities that release hazardous substances into the environment, as well as on the businesses that generate those substances or transport them. As a potentially responsible party, or \"PRP,\" we may be liable under CERCLA for substantial investigation and cleanup costs even if we operate our business properly and comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several, which means that if we were found to be a business with responsibility for a particular CERCLA site, we could be required to pay the entire cost of the investigation and cleanup, even though we were not the party responsible for the release of the hazardous substance and even though other companies might also be liable. Even if we are able to identify who the other responsible parties might be, we may not be able to compel them to contribute to the remediation costs, or they might be insolvent or unable to contribute due to lack of financial resources.. Our facilities and the facilities of our clients and third-party contractors may have generated, used, handled and/or disposed of hazardous substances and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these facilities or at off-site locations, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could materially reduce our profits. In addition, new services or products offered by us could expose us to further environmental liabilities for which we have no historical experience and cannot estimate our potential exposure to liabilities.. Our operations are subject to numerous statutory and regulatory requirements, which may increase in the future.. Our operations are subject to numerous statutory and regulatory requirements, and our ability to continue to hold licenses and permits required for our businesses is subject to maintaining satisfactory compliance with such requirements. These requirements may increase in the future as a result of statutory and regulatory changes. Although we are very committed to compliance and safety, we may not, either now or in the future, be in full compliance at all times with such statutory and regulatory requirements. Consequently, we could be required to incur significant costs to maintain or improve our compliance with such requirements.. We may also assume additional environmental liabilities as part of further acquisitions. Although we will endeavor to accurately estimate and limit environmental liabilities presented by the businesses or facilities to be acquired, some liabilities, including ones that may exist only because of the past operations of an acquired business or facility, may prove to be more difficult or costly to address than we then estimate. It is also possible that government officials responsible for enforcing environmental laws may believe an environmental liability is more significant than we then estimate, or that we will fail to identify or fully appreciate an existing liability before we become legally responsible to address it.. We may be subject in the normal course of business to judicial, administrative or other third-party proceedings that could interrupt or limit our operations, require expensive remediation, result in adverse judgments, settlements or fines and create negative publicity.. Governmental agencies may, among other things, impose fines or penalties on us relating to the conduct of our business, attempt to revoke or deny renewal of our operating permits, franchises or licenses for violations or alleged violations of environmental laws or regulations or as a result of third-party challenges, require us to install additional pollution control equipment or require us to remediate potential environmental problems relating to any real property that we or our predecessors ever owned, leased or operated or any waste that we or our predecessors ever collected, transported, disposed of or stored. Individuals, citizens groups, trade associations or environmental activists may also bring actions against us in connection with our operations that could interrupt or limit the scope of our business. Any adverse outcome in such proceedings could harm our operations and financial results and create negative publicity, which could damage our reputation, competitive position and stock price. We may also be required to take corrective actions, including, but not limited to, installing additional equipment, which could require us to make substantial capital expenditures. We could also be required to indemnify our employees in connection with any expenses or liabilities. 35. that they may incur individually in connection with regulatory action against us. These could result in a material adverse effect on our prospects, business, financial condition and our results of operations.. The adoption of climate change legislation or regulation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce.. The U.S. government, including the EPA, as well as several state and international governments, have either considered or adopted legislation or regulations in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. These proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in states where we have interests or may have interests in the future. In addition, various groups suggest that additional laws may be needed in an effort to address climate change, as illustrated by the Paris Agreement negotiated at the 2015 United Nations Conference on Climate Change, referred to as COP 21, which entered into force on November 4, 2016. We cannot predict the extent to which any such legislation or regulation will be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. To the extent we incur additional costs required to comply with the adoption of new laws and regulations that are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. In addition, demand for the products we produce could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Recovery Division. Our Recovery division participates from time to time in one-time projects, which could create fluctuations in revenue and gross profit from quarter to quarter.. Our Recovery division periodically participates in one-time, non-ongoing projects and therefore we expect to see fluctuations in revenue and gross profit from this division from quarter to quarter and period to period. Consequently, the results of operations, net income (loss), revenue and gross profit for our Recovery division for any quarter or period may not be indicative of the results of operations, net income (loss), revenue and gross profit for any subsequent quarter or period.. Recovery division customers may cancel or delay projects.. Recovery division customers may cancel or delay projects for reasons beyond our control. If projects are delayed, the timing of our revenues could be affected. Revenue recognition occurs over long periods of time and is subject to unanticipated delays. If we receive relatively large orders in any given quarter, fluctuations in the levels of our quarterly backlog can result because the backlog in that quarter may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent quarters. As a result, our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues.. The dismantling, demolition, decommission and marine salvage operations of our Recovery division subjects us to operational and safety risks.. Our Recovery division provides dismantling, demolition, decommission and marine salvage services at industrial facilities throughout the Gulf Coast. The division also owns and operates a fleet of trucks and other vehicles used for shipping and handling equipment and scrap materials. Such operations could potentially result in releases of hazardous materials, injury or death of our employees or third parties, environmental contamination claims, and claims for damage to property both from third parties and our customers and clients. These risks expose us to potential liability for pollution and other environmental damages, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, and property damage or destruction. While we seek to minimize and obtain insurance to limit our exposure to such risks, such actions and insurance may not be adequate to cover all of our potential liabilities and such insurance may not in the future be available at commercially reasonable rates. If we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of policy limits or at a time when we were not able to obtain adequate liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected to a material extent. Furthermore, should our safety record deteriorate, we could be subject to a potential reduction of revenues from our Recovery division.. 36. Risks Related to Our Common Carrier Operations. We face competition from other common carriers and transportation providers.. Crossroad is a common carrier that provides transportation and logistical services for liquid petroleum products, as well as other hazardous materials and waste streams. We face competition from trucking companies, railroads, motor carriers and, to a lesser extent, ships and barges. In addition to price competition, we face competition with respect to transit times and quality and reliability of service. Any future improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation, and/or increased competition from competitors, including competitors with more resources than us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, any future consolidation of the trucking industry could materially affect the competitive environment in which we operate.. Risks Related to Our Prior Offering Terms. We face significant penalties and damages in the event registration statements we filed to register certain securities sold in our prior offerings are subsequently suspended or terminated.. We previously agreed to register the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock, Series B1 Preferred Stock and upon exercise of the warrants sold in connection therewith under the Securities Act, for resale. The agreements pursuant to which we sold such securities, provide for liquidated damages upon the occurrence of certain events. The amount of the liquidated damages is 1.0% of the aggregate subscription amount paid by an investor for the units (i.e., Series B Preferred Stock and warrants and/or Series B1 Preferred Stock and warrants) affected by the event that are still held by the investor upon the occurrence of the event, due on the date immediately following the event that caused such failure (or the 30th day following such event if the event relates to the suspension of the registration statement), and each 30 days thereafter, with such payments to be prorated on a daily basis during each 30 day period, subject to a maximum of an aggregate of 6% per year (per transaction). If we fail to pay any liquidated damages in full within seven days after the date payable, we are required to pay interest thereon at a rate of 12% per annum until paid in full. In the event the registration statement, which has previously been declared effective within the timeframe required by the purchase agreement, is subsequently suspended or terminated, or we otherwise fail to meet certain requirements set forth in the purchase agreements, we could be required to pay significant penalties which could adversely affect our cash flow and cause the value of our securities to decline in value.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES. General Risks. Our Chief Executive Officer, Benjamin P. Cowart, has significant voting control over us, including the appointment of Directors and may have interests that differ from other shareholders. Mr. Cowart, as a significant shareholder, may, therefore, take actions that are not in the interest of other shareholders.. Benjamin P. Cowart, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 24.3% of our common stock (not including shares issuable upon exercise of options and warrants held by Mr. Cowart) and 16.5% of our total voting stock, and as such, Mr. Cowart exercises significant control in determining the outcome of corporate transactions or other matters, including the election of directors, mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of Mr. Cowart may differ from the interests of the other stockholders and thus result in corporate decisions that are adverse to other shareholders. Should conflicts of interest arise, Mr. Cowart may not act in the best interests of our other shareholders and conflicts of interest may not be resolved in a manner favorable to our other shareholders.. Securities analysts may not cover our common stock and this may have a negative impact on our common stock's market price.. The trading market for our common stock will depend, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. We currently have limited research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock, changes their opinion of our shares or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease and we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. 37. Shareholders may be diluted significantly through our efforts to obtain financing and satisfy obligations through the issuance of additional securities.. Wherever possible, our Board of Directors will attempt to use non-cash consideration to satisfy obligations. In many instances, we believe that the non-cash consideration will consist of restricted shares of our common stock, preferred stock or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, but subject to NASDAQ rules and regulations (which generally require shareholder approval for any transactions which would result in the issuance of more than 20% of our then outstanding shares of common stock or voting rights representing over 20% of our then outstanding shares of stock), to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares of common stock, preferred stock or warrants to purchase such shares of common stock. In addition, we may attempt to raise capital by selling shares of our common stock, possibly at a discount to market in the future. These actions will result in dilution of the ownership interests of existing shareholders, may further dilute common stock book value, and that dilution may be material. Such issuances may also serve to enhance existing management's ability to maintain control of us, because the shares may be issued to parties or entities committed to supporting existing management.. We currently have a sporadic and volatile market for our common stock, and the market for our common stock is and may remain sporadic and volatile in the future.. We currently have a sporadic and volatile market for our common stock, which market is anticipated to remain sporadic and volatile in the future, and will likely be subject to wide fluctuations in response to several factors, including, but not limited to:. • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations;. • our ability or inability to generate revenues;. • the number of shares in our public float;. • increased competition; and. • conditions and trends in the market for oil refining and re-refining services, transportation services and oil feedstock.. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our stock price may be impacted by factors that are unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates or international currency fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Shareholders and potential investors in our common stock should exercise caution before making an investment in us, and should not rely solely on the publicly quoted or traded stock prices in determining our common stock value, but should instead determine the value of our common stock based on the information contained in our public reports, industry information, and those business valuation methods commonly used to value private companies.. Additionally, the market price of our common stock historically has fluctuated significantly based on, but not limited to, such factors as general stock market trends, announcements of developments related to our business, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, our ability or inability to generate new revenues, and conditions and trends in the industries in which our customers are engaged.. In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price fluctuations that have oftentimes been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Similarly, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly based upon factors unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates or international currency fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and therefore only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to our stockholders.. We currently anticipate that we will retain all future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may not occur, will provide a return to our stockholders.. 38. There may be future sales and issuances of our common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and dilute shareholders ownership of common stock.. The exercise of any options granted to executive officers, directors and other employees under our equity compensation plans, the exercise of outstanding warrants, the conversion of outstanding convertible securities and other issuances of our common stock in the future could have an adverse effect on the market price of the shares of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive shares of common stock, provided that we are subject to the requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market (which generally require shareholder approval for any transactions which would result in the issuance of more than 20% of our then outstanding shares of common stock or voting rights representing over 20% of our then outstanding shares of stock), subject to certain exceptions. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur could materially adversely affect the market price of the shares of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering or transaction will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings or issuances. Additionally, the sale of a significant portion of our common stock may cause the value of our common stock to decline in value.. Our outstanding options, warrants and convertible securities may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. As of the date of this filing, we have (i) 3,180,417 outstanding stock options at a weighted average exercise price of $2.21 per share; (ii) 7,353,056 outstanding warrants to purchase 7,353,056 shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $1.03 per share; (iii) 453,567 shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of our 453,567 outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (which convert on a one-for-one basis (subject to adjustments for stock splits and recapitalizations) into common stock); (iv) 3,479,016 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our 3,479,016 outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock (which convert on a one-for-one basis (subject to adjustments for stock splits and recapitalizations) into common stock); (v) 12,947,916 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our 12,947,916 outstanding shares of Series B1 Preferred Stock (which convert on a one-for-one basis (subject to adjustments for stock splits and recapitalizations) into common stock); and (vi) 3,156,800 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our 31,568 outstanding shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock (which each convert into 100 shares of common stock (subject to adjustments for stock splits and recapitalizations)). For the life of the options and warrants, the holders have the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock without assuming the risk of ownership. The issuance of shares upon the exercise of outstanding securities will also dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders.. The availability of these shares for public resale, as well as any actual resales of these shares, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock pursuant to the exercise of outstanding options or warrants or conversion of other securities, or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock may have on the market price of our common stock. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. In addition, the common stock issuable upon exercise/conversion of outstanding convertible securities may represent overhang that may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Overhang occurs when there is a greater supply of a company's stock in the market than there is demand for that stock. When this happens the price of the company's stock will decrease, and any additional shares which shareholders attempt to sell in the market will only further decrease the share price. If the share volume of our common stock cannot absorb shares sold by holders of our outstanding convertible securities, then the value of our common stock will likely decrease.. Risks Relating to our Preferred Stock. We have established preferred stock which can be designated by the Board of Directors without shareholder approval and have established Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, Series B1 Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock, which give the holders thereof a liquidation preference and the ability to convert such shares into our common stock.. We have 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock authorized, which includes 5,000,000 shares of designated Series A Preferred Stock of which approximately 0.5 million shares are issued and outstanding, 10 million designated shares of Series B Preferred Stock, of which 3,479,016 shares are issued and outstanding, 17 million designated shares of Series B1 Preferred Stock, of which 12,947,916 shares are issued and outstanding and 44,000 designated shares of Series C Preferred Stock, of which 31,568 are issued and outstanding. The Series A Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference of $1.49 per share. The Series B Preferred Stock and. 39. Series B1 Preferred stock have a liquidation preference of $3.10 per share and $1.56 per share, respectively, payable only after the liquidation preference on the Series A Preferred Stock are satisfied. The Series C Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference of $100.00 per share, payable only after the liquidation preference on the Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and Series B1 Preferred Stock are satisfied. As a result, if we were to dissolve, liquidate or sell our assets, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock would have the right to receive up to the first approximately $0.7 million in proceeds from any such transaction, holders of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series B1 Preferred Stock would have the right to receive up to approximately $26.1 million of the remaining proceeds from any such transaction, and the holders of our Series C Preferred Stock would have the right to receive up to $3.2 million of the remaining proceeds from any such transaction, after the payment of amounts owed to certain other of our creditors, but before any amount is paid to the holders of our common stock. The payment of the liquidation preferences could result in common stock shareholders not receiving any consideration if we were to liquidate, dissolve or wind up, either voluntarily or involuntarily. Additionally, the existence of the liquidation preferences may reduce the value of our common stock, make it harder for us to sell shares of common stock in offerings in the future, or prevent or delay a change of control. Furthermore, the conversion of Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and Series B1 Preferred Stock (each of which convert on a one-for-one basis (subject to adjustments for stock splits and recapitalizations)) into common stock and the conversion of Series C Preferred Stock into common stock (which convert into 100 shares of common stock (subject to adjustments for stock splits and recapitalizations)) may cause substantial dilution to our common shareholders. Because our Board of Directors is entitled to designate the powers and preferences of the preferred stock without a vote of our shareholders, subject to NASDAQ rules and regulations, our shareholders will have no control over what designations and preferences our future preferred stock, if any, will have.. In addition to the above, we are required to redeem any non-converted shares of (a) Series B Preferred Stock, which remain outstanding on June 24, 2020, at the rate of $3.10 per share (or $10.8 million in aggregate as of the date of this filing); and (b) Series B1 Preferred Stock, which remain outstanding on June 24, 2020, at the rate of $1.56 per share (or $15.3 million in aggregate as of the date of this filing), subject to the terms of our senior loan documents, which funds we may not have, or which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.. The issuance of common stock upon conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock, Series B1 Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock will cause immediate and substantial dilution to existing shareholders.. The Series B Preferred Stock (including accrued and unpaid dividends) is convertible into shares of the Company's common stock at any time at $3.10 per share (initially a one-for-one basis). If the Company's common stock trades at or above $6.20 per share for a period of 20 consecutive trading days, the Company may at such time force conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock (including accrued and unpaid dividends) into common stock of the Company. The Series B1 Preferred Stock (including accrued and unpaid dividends) is convertible into shares of the Company's common stock at the holder's option at any time after closing at $1.56 per share (initially a one-for-one basis). If the Company's common stock trades at or above $3.90 per share for a period of 20 consecutive trading days at any time, the Company may at such time force conversion of the Series B1 Preferred Stock (including accrued and unpaid dividends) into common stock of the Company. The Series C Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of the Company's common stock at any time at $1.00 per share (initially a 100-for-one basis).. The issuance of common stock upon conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock,  Series B1 Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock will result in immediate and substantial dilution to the interests of other stockholders since the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock, Series B1 Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock may ultimately receive and sell the full amount of shares issuable in connection with the conversion of such Series B Preferred Stock, Series B1 Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock. Although the Series B Preferred Stock, and  Series B1 Preferred Stock may not be converted by the holders thereof if such conversion would cause such holder to own more than 9.999% of our outstanding common stock (4.999% in the case of certain holders), and the Series C Preferred Stock may not be converted by the holder thereof if such conversion would cause the holder to own more than 4.999% of our outstanding common stock, these restrictions do not prevent such holders from converting some of their holdings, selling those shares, and then converting the rest of their holdings, while still staying below the 9.999%/4.999% limit. In this way, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock, Series B1 Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock could sell more than these limits while never actually holding more shares than the limits allow. If the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock, Series B1 Preferred Stock or Series C Preferred Stock choose to do this, it will cause substantial dilution to the then holders of our common stock.. 40. Our outstanding Series B Preferred Stock and Series B1 Preferred Stock accrue a cash dividend.. Our Series B Preferred Stock accrues a dividend, payable quarterly in arrears (based on calendar quarters), in the amount of 6% per annum of the original issuance price of the Series B Preferred Stock ($3.10 per share or $10.8 million in aggregate as of the date of this report). The dividend is payable by the Company, at the Company's election, in registered common stock of the Company (if available) or cash, provided that any cash dividend payment is subject to us previously having repaid all amounts owed to our senior lender. In the event dividends are paid in registered common stock of the Company, the number of shares payable will be calculated by dividing (a) the accrued dividend by (b) 90% of the arithmetic average of the volume weighted average price (VWAP) of the Company's common stock for the 10 trading days immediately prior to the applicable date of determination (the \"June 2015 Dividend Stock Payment Price\"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may the Company pay dividends in common stock unless the applicable June 2015 Dividend Stock Payment Price is above $2.91. If the Company is prohibited from paying, or chooses not to pay the dividend in cash (due to contractual senior credit agreements or other restrictions) or is unable to pay the dividend in registered common stock, the dividend will be paid in-kind in Series B Preferred Stock shares at $3.10 per share.. The Series B1 Preferred Stock accrues a dividend, payable quarterly in arrears (based on calendar quarters), in the amount of 6% per annum of the original issuance price of the Series B1 Preferred Stock ($1.56 per share or $15.3 million in aggregate), provided that such dividend increases to 9% if certain Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA targets are not met during 2016-2017, until the earlier of (a) the date the next target is met, or (b) June 30, 2018 (provided that the Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA target for the six months ended December 31, 2016 was met). The dividend is payable by the Company, at the Company's election, in registered common stock of the Company (if available) or cash. In the event dividends are paid in registered common stock of the Company, the number of shares payable will be calculated by dividing (a) the accrued dividend by (b) 90% of the VWAP of the Company's common stock for the 10 trading days immediately prior to the applicable date of determination (the \"May 2016 Dividend Stock Payment Price\"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may the Company pay dividends in common stock unless the applicable May 2016 Dividend Stock Payment Price is above $1.52. If the Company is prohibited from paying, or chooses not to pay, the dividend in cash (due to contractual senior credit agreements or other restrictions) or is unable to pay the dividend in registered common stock, the dividend will be paid in-kind in Series B1 Preferred Stock shares at $1.56 per share.. We may not have sufficient available cash to pay the dividends as they accrue. The payment of the dividends, or our failure to timely pay the dividends when due, could reduce our available cash on hand, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cause the value of our stock to decline in value. Additionally, the issuance of shares of common stock or additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock or Series B1 Preferred Stock in lieu of cash dividends (and the subsequent conversion of such Series B Preferred Stock or Series B1 Preferred Stock into common stock pursuant to the terms of such Series B Preferred Stock and Series B1 Preferred Stock) could cause substantial dilution to the then holders of our common stock.. We may be required to issue additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock and Series B1 Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of certain events.. As described above, in the event we do not have available cash to pay the dividends which accrue on the Series B Preferred Stock and Series B1 Preferred Stock in cash, we are prohibited from paying such dividends in cash, or choose not to pay such dividends in cash and/or we do not have sufficient registered shares of common stock available to allow for the payment of such dividends in common stock, we are required to pay such dividends in-kind in (a) Series B Preferred Stock shares at $3.10 per share, which will also include a $3.10 per share liquidation preference in connection with the Series B Preferred Stock dividends; and (b) Series B1 Preferred Stock shares at $1.56 per share, which will also include a $1.56 per share liquidation preference in connection with the Series B1 Preferred Stock, and the right to convert into common stock on a one-for-one basis.. The issuance and sale of common stock upon conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock, Series B1 Preferred Stock  and Series C Preferred Stock may depress the market price of our common stock; and the redemption of the Series B Preferred Stock and Series B1 Preferred Stock, if not converted into common stock prior to the required redemption date, will require significant additional funds.. If conversions of the Series B Preferred Stock, Series B1 Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock and sales of such converted shares take place, the price of our common stock may decline. In addition, the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock, Series B1 Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock may represent overhang that may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Overhang occurs when there is a greater supply of a company's stock in the market than there is demand for that stock. When this happens the price of the company's stock will decrease, and any additional shares which shareholders attempt to sell in the market will only further decrease the share price. If the share volume of our common. 41. stock cannot absorb converted shares sold by the Series B Preferred Stock holders, then the value of our common stock will likely decrease.. In addition to the above, we are required to redeem any non-converted shares of (a) Series B Preferred Stock, which remain outstanding on June 24, 2020, at the rate of $3.10 per share (or $10.8 million in aggregate as of the date of this filing); and (b) Series B1 Preferred Stock, which remain outstanding on June 24, 2020, at the rate of $1.56 per share (or $15.3 million in aggregate as of the date of this filing), which funds we may not have, or which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.. Risks Relating to Our Listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our Common Stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market if we cannot satisfy Nasdaq's continued listing requirements.. Among the conditions required for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, Nasdaq requires us to maintain at least $2.5 million in stockholders' equity or $500,000 in net income over the prior two years or two of the prior three years, to have a majority of independent directors, and to maintain a stock price over $1.00 per share. Our stockholders' equity may not remain above Nasdaq's $2.5 million minimum, we may not generate over $500,000 of yearly net income moving forward, we may not be able to maintain independent directors, and we may not be able to maintain a stock price over $1.00 per share (our 52 week low as of the date of this filing was $0.65 and our common stock traded at below $1.00 per share from approximately August 2017 to February 2018). If we fail to timely comply with the applicable requirements, our stock may be delisted. In addition, even if we demonstrate compliance with the requirements above, we will have to continue to meet other objective and subjective listing requirements to continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market could make trading our common stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to declines in our share price and liquidity. Without a Nasdaq Capital Market listing, stockholders may have a difficult time getting a quote for the sale or purchase of our stock, the sale or purchase of our stock would likely be made more difficult and the trading volume and liquidity of our stock could decline. Delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market could also result in negative publicity and could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. The absence of such a listing may adversely affect the acceptance of our common stock as currency or the value accorded by other parties. Further, if we are delisted, we would also incur additional costs under state blue sky laws in connection with any sales of our securities. These requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell our common stock in the secondary market. If our common stock is delisted by Nasdaq, our common stock may be eligible to trade on an over-the-counter quotation system, such as the OTCQB market, where an investor may find it more difficult to sell our stock or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In the event our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, we may not be able to list our common stock on another national securities exchange or obtain quotation on an over-the counter quotation system.. If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, your ability to sell your shares of our common stock could also be limited by the penny stock restrictions, which could further limit the marketability of your shares.. If our common stock is delisted, it could come within the definition of \"penny stock\" as defined in the Exchange Act and would then be covered by Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act. That Rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, Rule 15g-9, if it were to become applicable, would affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and accordingly would affect the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the public market. These additional procedures could also limit our ability to raise additional capital in the future.. Due to the fact that our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we are subject to financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements which increase our costs and expenses.. We are currently required to file annual and quarterly information and other reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission that are specified in Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Additionally, due to the fact that our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we are also subject to the requirements to maintain independent directors, comply with other corporate governance requirements and are required to pay annual listing and stock issuance fees. These obligations require a commitment of additional resources including, but not limited, to additional expenses, and may result in the diversion of our senior management's time and attention from our day-to-day operations. These obligations increase our expenses and may make it more complicated or time consuming for us to undertake certain corporate actions due to. 42. the fact that we may require Nasdaq approval for such transactions and/or Nasdaq rules may require us to obtain shareholder approval for such transactions."
