[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. A wide range of risks may affect our business and financial condition and results of operations, now and in the future. We consider the risks described below to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results.. Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Maintain Attractive Brands and Produce Popular Programming, Motion Pictures and Other Entertainment Content, which is Difficult to Predict. Our ability to maintain attractive brands and generate popular entertainment content, successful tentpole events and consumer-oriented retail and hospitality offerings are key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. The production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on our ability to satisfy consumer tastes and expectations in a consistent manner. The popularity of our content is affected by our ability to maintain or develop strong brand awareness and target key audiences, the quality and attractiveness of competing entertainment content and the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including online, mobile and other offerings. Audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at any point in time. We invest substantial capital in our content, including in the production of original content on our networks, in our motion pictures and in our television production business, before learning the extent to which it will garner critical success and popularity with consumers. In addition, general economic conditions affect our audience's discretionary spending and therefore their willingness to access our content.. In our Media Networks businesses, the popularity of our brands and programming has a significant impact on the revenues we are able to generate from advertising, affiliate fees, consumer products, and other licensing activities. Our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences outside the U.S. also impacts our ability to expand our presence internationally. In our Filmed Entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment, television, various other platforms and apps and licensed consumer products. As a result, a lack of popularity of our offerings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular period or over a longer term.. New Technologies, Distribution Platforms and Packaging, as Well as Changes in Consumer Behavior, May Negatively Affect Our Viewership, Revenue and Profitability. Technology and business models in our industry continue to evolve rapidly and new distribution platforms, and increased competition from new entrants and emerging technologies, have added to the complexity of maintaining predictable revenue streams.. Technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume content. For example, consumers are increasingly using time-shifting and advertising blocking technologies that enable users to fast-forward or circumvent advertisements. Substantial use of these technologies could impact the attractiveness of our programming to advertisers, adversely affecting our advertising revenues. In addition, the evolution of consumer preferences away from linear pay television, away from physical towards digital services, and away from rental and purchased services towards subscription services, and the substantial increase in availability of programming without advertising or measurement, may continue to have an adverse impact on our revenues.. In addition, in response to perceived consumer demand, distributors of programming and program services are continuing to develop alternative offerings for consumers, including smaller programming packages known as \"skinny bundles,\" which are delivered at lower costs than traditional offerings and sometimes allow the consumer to create a customized package of networks; subscription video-on-demand services; ad-supported, free online video products; and original programming hosted on social media platforms. If these alternative offerings continue to gain traction and our networks are not included in those packages, or if consumers increasingly favor alternative offerings over traditional cable subscriptions, we may experience a decline in viewership and ultimately demand for our programming, which could lead to lower affiliate and advertising. 19. Table of Contents. revenues. These changing distribution models may also impact our ability to negotiate carriage deals on terms favorable to us, thereby having an adverse impact on our revenues.. The Loss of Affiliation Agreements, Renewal on Less Favorable Terms or Adverse Interpretations Could Cause Our Revenues to Decline, and Consolidation Among Distributors Could Continue to Have an Adverse Effect on Our Revenue and Profitability. We are dependent upon our agreements with cable television, direct-to-home satellite television and telecommunications operators, subscription and advertising supported video-on-demand services, and other distributors of our programming and program services. Our affiliate agreements generally have fixed terms that vary by market and distributor, and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future, or renewed on favorable terms, including but not limited to those related to pricing and programming tiers. The loss of favorable packaging and positioning, the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers or the failure to renew our agreements with any distributor could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from both advertising and affiliate fees.. Similarly, our revenues are dependent on the compliance of major distributors with the terms of our affiliation agreements. As these agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation, and even validity, of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, litigation seeking to circumscribe enforcement of our rights. For example, some of our distribution agreements may contain \"most favored nation\" (\"MFN\") clauses, which provide that if we enter into an agreement with a distributor and such agreement includes specified terms that are more favorable than those held by a distributor holding an MFN right, we must offer some of those terms to the distributor holding the MFN right. These clauses are generally complex and may lead to disagreement over interpretation and application of such clause. In addition, disagreements with a distributor on the interpretation or validity of an agreement could adversely impact our revenues from both advertising and affiliate fees, as well as our relationship with that distributor.. In addition, consolidation among cable and satellite distributors and telecommunications operators has given the largest operators considerable leverage and market power in their relationships with programmers. We currently have agreements in place with the major U.S. cable and satellite operators and this consolidation has affected, and could continue to affect, our ability to maximize the value of our content through those distributors. In addition, many of the countries and territories in which we distribute our networks also have a small number of dominant distributors. Continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of distributors that carry our programming, subject our affiliate revenues to greater volume discounts, impact our ability to effectively compete for audiences, advertising revenue, and distribution, and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite television system operators.. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Advertising Market Conditions Could Cause Our Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly. We derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. The strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers' current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect our advertising revenues. Natural and other disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of disrupted programming and services, uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Our ability to generate advertising revenue is also dependent on demand for our content, the consumers in our targeted demographics, advertising rates and results observed by advertisers. In addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending toward online and mobile offerings from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through automated purchasing and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as advantageous to the Company as current advertising methods.. Deficiencies in Audience Measurement on Various Platforms May Adversely Impact Our Advertising Revenues. Advertising sales are largely dependent on audience measurement, and the results of audience measurement techniques can vary for a variety of reasons, including the platforms on which viewing is measured and variations in the employed statistical sampling methods. While Nielsen's statistical sampling method is the primary measurement technique used in our television advertising sales, we measure and monetize our campaign reach and frequency on and across digital platforms based on other third-party data as well as first-party data using a variety of methods including the number of impressions served and demographics. In addition, multi-platform campaign verification remains in its infancy, and viewership on tablets, smartphones. 20. Table of Contents. and other mobile devices, which continues to grow rapidly, still is not measured by any one consistently applied method. These variations and changes could have a significant effect on our advertising revenues.. Our New Strategic Direction May Not be Effective in Achieving Our Strategic and Operating Objectives, and Our Efforts May Increase Costs or Otherwise Adversely Affect our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. In February 2017, following significant changes in our senior leadership and a comprehensive review of our operations and performance, we announced a new strategy centered on the following initiatives: focusing on six flagship brands, elevating our approach to content and talent, deepening our partnerships to drive new distribution and advertising revenue, extending the reach of our brands in the digital and physical world, and continuing to optimize and energize our organization. We may not be successful in achieving our strategic and operating objectives and generating revenues and operating income, and our efforts to execute our strategic plan may increase costs or otherwise adversely affect the profitability of our business.. For example:. • The reallocation of resources to the six flagship brands, and revamped programming strategies at the brands, may not be effective in generating improved ratings and market share.. • Ongoing efforts to improve relationships with distribution partners may stall or fail to generate sufficient cooperation, leaving us unable to expand our relationships with these parties.. • Steps taken by Paramount's new leadership team to revamp upcoming film slates may not lead to the anticipated turnaround in a timely manner.. • Efforts to de-lever our balance sheet to help maintain an investment grade rating may not succeed or yield the anticipated benefits.. The success of our business also depends on achieving our inorganic strategic objectives, including through mergers and acquisitions, which may present risks that could impact our operations and earnings. Pursuing and completing such acquisition transactions may involve significant time, effort and resources, and there can be no assurance that such transactions will be successfully implemented.. Service Disruptions or Failures of, or Intrusions Upon, the Company's or its Vendors' Networks, Information Systems and Other Technologies Could Result in the Disclosure of Confidential or Valuable Business Information, Disruption of Our Businesses, Damage to Our Brands and Reputation, Legal Exposure and Financial Losses. Networks, information systems and other technologies, including technology systems used in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures by the Company or our third-party vendors (\"Systems\") are critical to our business activities, and shutdowns or service disruptions of, and intrusions upon, these Systems pose increasing risks. Such shutdowns, disruptions and intrusions may be caused by third-party hacking of computers and systems; dissemination of computer viruses, worms, malware, ransomware and other destructive or disruptive software; denial of service attacks and other bad acts; human error; and power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks or other similar events. Shutdowns, disruptions and intrusions from such events could have an adverse impact on the Company, its employees and its audiences, including degradation or disruption of service, loss of data and damage to equipment and data. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and the Company's disaster recovery and business continuity planning may not be sufficient to cover everything that could happen. Significant events could result in a disruption of the Company's operations, reduced revenues, the loss of or damage to the integrity of data used by management to make decisions and operate the Company's businesses, viewer or advertiser dissatisfaction or a loss of viewers or advertisers, and damage to the Company's reputation or brands. The Company may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate it for any losses associated with such events.. The Company is also subject to risks caused by the misappropriation, misuse, falsification or intentional or accidental release or loss of data or programming content maintained in the Systems of the Company or our third-party vendors, including proprietary and personal information (of third parties, employees and users of our online, mobile and app offerings), business information including intellectual property, or other confidential information. Outside parties may attempt to penetrate the Company's Systems or those of our third-party vendors or fraudulently induce employees, partners or users of our online, mobile and app offerings to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users' data, or our programming. The number and sophistication of attempted and successful information security breaches in the U.S. have increased in recent years.  If a material breach of the Company's Systems or those of our third-party vendors occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of the Company's information security measures could be harmed, the Company could lose. 21. Table of Contents. advertisers as well as users of our online, mobile and app offerings and viewers, and our reputation, brands and credibility could be damaged. In addition, if a material breach of the Company's Systems occurs, the Company could be required to expend significant amounts of money and other resources to repair or replace such Systems or to comply with notification requirements. The Company could also be subject to actions by regulatory authorities and claims asserted in private litigation in the event of a breach of the Company's or our third-party vendors' Systems.. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or disable, degrade or sabotage, these Systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate preventative measures or remediate any intrusion on a timely or effective basis. Moreover, the development and maintenance of these preventative and detective measures is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Despite the Company's efforts, the possibility of these events occurring cannot be eliminated.. Theft of Our Content, Including Digital Copyright Theft and Other Unauthorized Exhibitions of Our Content, May Decrease Revenue Received from Our Programming, Motion Pictures and Other Entertainment Content and Adversely Affect Our Businesses and Profitability. The success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights in our entertainment content. We are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment products, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property affects us and the value of our content. Copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical protective measures similar to those existing in the U.S. and Europe and/or that lack effective enforcement of such measures. Such foreign copyright theft often creates a supply of pirated content for major markets as well. The interpretation of copyright, piracy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux, and some methods of copyright enforcement have encountered political opposition. The failure to appropriately enforce and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and negatively affect its value.. Content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine encryption and other security features and enable infringers to cloak their identities online. In addition, we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content. The increasing use of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. For example, new mobile broadcasting tools enable users to livestream content, including copyrighted content, which can lead to content theft and could have an adverse impact on the monetization of our content. Unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of motion pictures or television shows as well as a reduction in legitimate audiences, which would likely have significant adverse effects on the value of the affected programming.. Copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels, reduces the public's perceived value of our content and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such works. While legal protections exist, piracy and technological tools with which to engage in copyright theft continue to escalate, evolve and present challenges for enforcement. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. Efforts to prevent the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and exhibition of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business.. Increased Costs for Programming, Motion Pictures and Other Rights, and Judgments We Make on the Potential Performance of our Content, May Adversely Affect Our Profits. In our Media Networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and other content, and as part of our business strategy we are reallocating resources to our flagship brands, in part with the aim of developing higher quality and quantity of original content. The Filmed Entertainment segment's core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures and television series, the costs of which are significant.. We also acquire programming, motion pictures and television series, as well as a variety of digital content and other ancillary rights such as consumer and home entertainment product offerings, and we pay license fees, royalties and/or contingent. 22. Table of Contents. compensation in connection with these acquired rights. We also license various music rights from the major record companies, music publishers and performing rights organizations, and some of these sources are highly consolidated.. Our investments in original and acquired programming are significant and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties, and rapid changes in consumer behavior have increased the risk associated with the success of all kinds of programming. As such, there can be no assurance that we will recoup our investments in programming, motion pictures and other content when the content is broadcast or distributed.. The accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming, motion pictures and other content requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, it may result in decreased profitability and the accelerated recognition of the expense and/or write-down of the value of the asset. For example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors, and we then update our estimate of ultimate revenues, including following a film's initial theatrical release, based on expected future and actual results. If we reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, it may result in the accelerations of capitalized film cost amortization. Similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our media networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program costs.. The Loss of Key Talent Could Disrupt Our Business and Adversely Affect Our Revenues. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of not only our corporate and divisional executive teams, but also the various creative talent and entertainment personalities with whom we work. For example, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other talent. These individuals are important to achieving the success of our programs, motion pictures and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining this and new talent will be reasonable. If we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal or we fail to attract new talent, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected.. Our Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive Industries. Companies in the cable network, motion picture, digital and consumer product industries depend on the popularity of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. Competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks (including our own), OTT distributors, social media content distributors, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, consumer products companies and other entertainment outlets and platforms, as well as from search, social networks, program guides and \"second screen\" applications. Competition also comes from pirated content.. Increased competition from additional entrants into the market for development and production of original programming, such as Apple, Facebook, YouTube, Netflix, Amazon and Hulu, increases our content costs as creating competing high quality, original content can require significant investment. In addition, as competition with these entrants for the creation and acquisition of quality programming continues to escalate, the complexity of negotiations over acquired rights to the content and the value of the rights we acquire or retain may increase, leading to increased acquisition costs, and our ability to successfully acquire content of the highest quality may face greater uncertainty.. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular programs and films, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution for our content. More content consumption options increase competition for viewers as well as for programming and creative talent, which can decrease our audience ratings, and therefore potentially our advertising revenues.. In addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated, whereas our Media Networks businesses generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. As more cable and satellite operators, Internet service providers, other content distributors, aggregators and search providers create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms and distribution or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. Our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. Our Revenues, Expenses and Operating Results May Vary Based on the Timing, Mix, Number and Availability of Our Motion Pictures and Other Programming and on Seasonal Factors. Our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion pictures, home entertainment releases and programs for licensing. For example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period relative to the corresponding period in the prior year due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released and the timing of delivery of programming to television and digital distributors. Our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of marketing expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods.. Our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences' viewing habits and attendance. Typically, our revenue from advertising is highest in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures is highest in the summer and around holidays. The effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter.. The Failure, Destruction and/or Breach of Satellites and Facilities that We Depend Upon to Distribute Our Programming Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations. We use satellite systems, fiber and other methods to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks, failures or impairments of communications satellites or on-ground uplinks or downlinks used to transmit programming or other similar events. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that such failure or breach would not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Political and Economic Conditions in a Variety of Markets around the World Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Businesses and Harm Our Financial Condition. Our businesses operate and have customers, partners and audiences worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. For that reason, economic conditions in many different markets around the world affect a number of aspects of our businesses, in particular revenues in both domestic and international markets derived from advertising sales, theatrical releases, home entertainment distribution, television licensing and sales of consumer products. Economic conditions in each market can also impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks by causing them to reduce their spending on advertising, and can impact our audience's discretionary spending. In addition, as we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar has increased. Such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and net asset balances, and there is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain stable in any period.. In addition, our businesses are exposed to certain political and economic risks inherent in conducting a global business. These include, among others:. • changes in the regulatory environment in the markets where we operate, including the imposition of new regulations or changed interpretations of existing regulations, particularly regarding repatriation of profits, taxation rules and procedures, tariffs or other trade barriers, currency exchange controls, permit requirements, restrictions on foreign ownership or investment, export and market access restrictions, privacy and data protection regulations, exceptions and limitations on copyright and censorship;. • retaliatory actions by governments reacting to changes in other countries, including in the U.S.;. • potential for longer payment cycles;. • issues related to the presence of corruption in certain markets and changes in anti-corruption laws and regulations;. 24. Table of Contents. • increased risk of political instability in some markets as well as conflict and sanctions preventing us from accessing those markets;. • wars, acts of terrorism or other hostilities; and. • other financial, political, economic or other uncertainties.. For example, the formal two-year process governing the UK's departure from the EU (\"Brexit\") began on March 29, 2017. Depending upon the ultimate terms of Brexit, the UK could lose access to the single EU market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the EU on behalf of its members. The effects of the Brexit vote and the perceptions as to the impact of the withdrawal of the UK from the EU may adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic and market conditions in the UK, the Eurozone, the EU and elsewhere and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the Euro and the British Pound. In addition, Brexit could lead to additional political, legal and economic instability and uncertainty in the EU, including changes in the regulatory environment, which could impact our ability to use UK law under \"country of origin\" rules for programming in the EU, potential trade barriers between the UK and the EU and between the UK and other countries, and potential content production quota regulations. Given that a portion of our business is conducted in the EU, including the UK, any of these effects of Brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. These political and economic risks could create instability in any of the markets where our businesses derive revenues, which could result in a reduction of revenue or loss of investment that adversely affects our businesses and harms our financial condition.. Changes in U.S. or Foreign Laws or Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. Our program services and online, mobile and app properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to intellectual property, content regulation, user privacy, data protection and consumer protection, among others. For example, privacy regulations make it difficult to measure viewership by children. In addition, federal legislators and regulators have proposed voluntary guidelines on advertising to children in an effort to combat unhealthy eating and childhood obesity, and have considered imposing limitations on the marketing of certain movies and regulating product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. All of these regulations affect our Nickelodeon businesses in particular. The threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny that deters certain advertisers from advertising or reaching their intended audiences could adversely affect advertising revenue. In addition, the U.S. Congress, the FCC and certain foreign governments currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our media properties.. Our businesses are also impacted by the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we or our partners operate, including operating license requirements, quotas, tax regimes, currency restrictions and data protection regimes. Laws in some non-U.S. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the U.S., and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable. This could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business.. Our businesses could be adversely affected by new laws and regulations, the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming, as well as our ability to enforce legal rights and changes in existing laws (or changes in interpretation) by courts and regulators. We could be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. We could also incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations, or substantial fines and penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply with new or existing laws or regulations.. We Could be Subject to Material Liabilities as a Result of Changes in Tax Laws, Regulations and Administrative Practices, Interpretations and Policies. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous international jurisdictions. Our tax rates are impacted by the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies in federal, state and local and international territories where our businesses operate, and may be subject to significant change. In addition, our tax returns are routinely audited and litigation or settlements may occur. Such changes, audit settlements or litigation may result in the recognition of an additional charge to our income tax provision in the period and may adversely affect our effective income tax rate or cash payments and may therefore affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 25. Table of Contents. Our Obligations Related to Litigation and Joint Ventures Could Adversely Impact Our Financial Condition. We are involved in pending and threatened legal proceedings from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. We have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. It is uncertain at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us, and there can be no assurance that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due. Therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. We Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity. We and our business partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Some of our collective bargaining agreements are industry-wide agreements, and we may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of the agreements. In addition, any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs.. Through National Amusements' Voting Control of Viacom and CBS, Certain Directors and Stockholders May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest, and National Amusements is in a Position to Control Actions that Require, or May be Accomplished by, Stockholder Approval. National Amusements, directly and indirectly, is the controlling stockholder of both Viacom and CBS. National Amusements owns shares in Viacom representing approximately 79.8% of the voting interest in Viacom and approximately 10% of Viacom's combined common stock. National Amusements is controlled by Sumner M. Redstone, our Chairman Emeritus, who is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of National Amusements, through the Sumner M. Redstone National Amusements Trust (the \"SMR Trust\"), which owns shares in National Amusements representing 80% of the voting interest of National Amusements. The shares representing the other 20% of the voting interest of National Amusements are held through a trust controlled by Shari E. Redstone, who is Mr. Redstone's daughter and the non-executive Vice Chair of Viacom's Board of Directors and the President and a member of the Board of Directors of National Amusements. The shares of National Amusements held by the SMR Trust are voted solely by Mr. Redstone until such time as his incapacity or death. Upon Mr. Redstone's incapacity or death, (1) Ms. Redstone will also become a trustee of the SMR Trust and (2) the shares of National Amusements held by the SMR Trust will be voted by the trustees of the SMR Trust. The current trustees include Mr. Redstone and David R. Andelman, a member of the boards of directors of National Amusements and CBS. The current Board of Directors of National Amusements includes Mr. Redstone, Ms. Redstone and Mr. Andelman. In addition, Mr. Redstone serves as Chairman Emeritus of CBS and Ms. Redstone serves as non-executive Vice Chair of CBS.. The National Amusements ownership structure and the common directors among National Amusements, Viacom and CBS could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. For example, potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and CBS, or when we and CBS enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with CBS. Our certificate of incorporation and the CBS certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to CBS, and these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company.. In addition, National Amusements' voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and transactions involving a change in control. For so long as National Amusements retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than National Amusements will be unable to affect the outcome of any corporate actions. The interests of National Amusements may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests.. We, National Amusements and CBS, and our Respective Businesses, Are Attributable to Each Other for Certain Regulatory Purposes, Which May Limit Business Opportunities or Impose Additional Costs. So long as we, National Amusements and CBS are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of U.S. and non-U.S. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the FCC, certain rules under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the U.S., among others. The businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for FCC and other purposes even after the. 26. Table of Contents. companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from CBS, or may impose additional costs on us."
