[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. The following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See \"Disclosures Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\" All amounts disclosed are in thousands except shares, per share amounts, percentages, stores and number of leases.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our ability to continue to have the liquidity necessary to service our debt, meet contractual payment obligations and fund our operations depends on many factors, including our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, maintain adequate availability under our Revolving Credit Facility or obtain other financing.. Our ability to timely service our indebtedness, meet contractual payment obligations and to fund our operations will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash, either through cash flows from operations, borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Facility or other financing.  During fiscal 2017, we took various steps to address our liquidity needs as further discussed in Note 1 \"Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  -  (E) Sources and Uses of Liquidity\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. While we believe based upon our actions to date that we will have sufficient liquidity for the next twelve months, there can be no assurances in the future that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our liquidity needs, that we will have the necessary availability under the Revolving Credit Facility, or be able to obtain other financing when liquidity needs arise. In particular, our ability to continue to meet its obligations is dependent on our ability to generate positive cash flow from a combination of initiatives and failure to successfully implement these initiatives would require us to implement alternative plans to satisfy our liquidity needs. In the event that we are unable to timely service our debt, meet other contractual payment obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity, seek waivers of or amendments to our contractual obligations for payment, reduce or delay scheduled expansions and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations or seek other financing opportunities.  There can be no assurance that these options would be readily available to us and our inability to address our liquidity needs could materially and adversely affect our operations and jeopardize our business, financial condition and results of operations, including defaults under the Term Loan Facility or the Revolving Credit Facility which could result in all amounts outstanding under those credit facilities becoming immediately due and payable.. 8. Our operations are restricted by covenants, including financial covenants, contained in our credit facilities.. We entered into the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility, in each case as amended, in connection with the IPO and Restructuring Transactions which closed on November 27, 2013. Our credit facilities contain significant restrictive covenants. These covenants may impair our financing and operational flexibility and make it difficult for us to react to market conditions and satisfy our ongoing capital needs and unanticipated cash requirements. Specifically, such covenants restrict our ability and, if applicable, the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. •  incur additional debt;. •  make certain investments and acquisitions;. •  enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. •  use assets as security in other transactions;. •  pay dividends;. •  sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies;. •  guarantee the debt of others;. •  enter into new lines of businesses;. •  make capital expenditures;. •  prepay, redeem or exchange our debt; and. •  form any joint ventures or subsidiary investments.. Our credit facilities also contain certain financial covenants, including a covenant under the Term Loan Facility requiring us to maintain a specified Consolidated Net Total Leverage Ratio. The Term Loan Amendment waives this requirement for the test periods from July 2017 through and including April 2019.. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, and are unable to cure such failure under the terms of our credit facilities, if applicable, we would be required to obtain additional waivers from our lenders to maintain compliance with our debt obligations. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt is accelerated, a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future operating performance would likely result.. The terms of our debt obligations and the amount of borrowing availability under our credit facilities may also restrict or delay our ability to fulfill our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement. In accordance with the terms of the Tax Receivable Agreement, delayed or unpaid amounts thereunder would accrue interest at a default rate of one-year LIBOR plus 500 basis points until paid. Our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could result in a failure to comply with covenants or financial ratios required by our existing or future credit facilities and could result in an event of default thereunder. See \"Tax Receivable Agreement\" under Note 12 \"Related Party Transactions\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.. We are in the process of optimizing certain systems, processes and functions, which had recently been implemented after being transitioned from Kellwood to our own systems or processes as well as external resources. If the newly implemented systems, processes and functions do not operate successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially harmed.. Since the IPO and Restructuring Transactions, we relied on certain administrative and operational support functions and systems of Kellwood to run our business pursuant to the Shared Services Agreement until as of the end of fiscal 2016 when we completed the transition of all such functions and systems from Kellwood to our own systems or processes as well as external resources. See \"Shared Services Agreement\" under Note 12 \"Related Party Transactions\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. During the first half of fiscal 2017, the new systems we implemented did not operate as successfully as the systems we historically used as such systems were highly customized or proprietary, which resulted in disruptions to our business, such as delayed shipments which resulted in order cancellations, including identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. Moreover, the processes and functions that were transitioned to our internal capabilities may not achieve the appropriate levels of operational efficiency in a timely manner, or at all, and the third-party service providers we engaged may be unable to effectively replace the functions historically provided by Kellwood in a manner that meets our business needs. In addition, our employees and outsource service providers may not be able to effectively utilize the new systems and employ the new processes in a timely manner, or at all. Although we have made progress in our efforts to optimize these systems, processes and functions, we also incurred costs through those efforts.  Any continued or further failures of those systems, processes and functions could materially and adversely impact our operations, including our internal controls.  If we are unable to successfully optimize and operate these new systems, processes and functions, we may incur additional costs to replace those systems and functions and/or may be forced to adopt less capable alternatives, which would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. The Shared Services Agreement has governed the provisions of certain support services to us, including distribution, information technology and back office support by Kellwood, as described above. In connection with the Kellwood Sale, the Shared. 9. Services Agreement was contributed to St. Louis, LLC.  The Shared Services Agreement with St. Louis, LLC has effectively terminated as there are currently no outstanding or further services to be provided thereunder.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. In fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, we identified and concluded that we have material weaknesses relating to our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of an entity's financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. Refer to Part II, Item 9A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more details.. As further described in Part II, Item 9A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are taking specific steps to remediate the material weaknesses that we identified by implementing and enhancing our control procedures. These material weaknesses will not be remediated until all necessary internal controls have been implemented, tested and determined to be operating effectively. In addition, we may need to take additional measures to address the material weaknesses or modify the planned remediation steps, and we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken, and expect to take, to improve our internal controls will be sufficient to address the issues identified, to ensure that our internal controls are effective or to ensure that the identified material weaknesses will not result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. Moreover, other material weaknesses or deficiencies may develop or be identified in the future. If we are unable to correct material weaknesses or deficiencies in internal controls in a timely manner, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information accurately and within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, will be adversely affected. This failure could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, subject us to civil and criminal investigations and penalties, and otherwise materially and adversely impact our business and financial condition.. Our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets could become further impaired, which may require us to take significant non-cash charges against earnings.. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ASC Topic 350 Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (\"ASC 350\"), goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually during the fourth fiscal quarter and in an interim period if a triggering event occurs. Determining the fair value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates and operating margins, discount rates and future market conditions, among others. We base our estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, the Company recorded impairment charges of $22,311 related to the direct-to-consumer reporting unit goodwill and $30,750 related to the tradename intangible asset. It is possible that our current estimates of future operating results could change adversely and impact the evaluation of the recoverability of the remaining carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets and that the effect of such changes could be material. There can be no assurances that we will not be required to record further charges in our financial statements which would negatively impact our results of operations during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined.. We may not be able to realize the benefits of our recently announced strategic initiatives, which include rationalizing our wholesale business and increasing focus on other growth areas, in particular, our Direct-to-consumer segment.. In the third quarter of fiscal 2017, we entered into limited distribution arrangements with Nordstrom and Neiman Marcus Group for non-licensed product in order to rationalize our department store distribution strategy which is intended to improve profitability in the Wholesale segment in the future and enable our management team to focus on other areas of growth for the brand, particularly in the Direct-to-consumer segment.  We plan to capture the sales from exited wholesale doors through our retail and e-commerce businesses while collaborating with the wholesale partners in various areas including merchandising and logistics to build a more profitable and focused wholesale business.  The success of these strategic initiatives depend on a number of factors, including our ability to grow our retail and e-commerce businesses and to position them effectively in capturing the exited wholesale sales as planned, the effectiveness of our collaboration efforts with Nordstrom and Neiman Marcus Group as well as our marketing initiatives, and macroeconomic impact on our business and the businesses of Nordstrom and Neiman Marcus Group. There can be no assurance that the strategic initiatives would produce intended positive results.  If we are unable to realize the benefits of the strategic initiatives, our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. 10. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of large wholesale partners, and the loss of any of these wholesale partners could substantially reduce our total revenue, especially in light of our new wholesale distribution strategy which would further impact our wholesale partner base.. We historically had a small number of wholesale partners who account for a significant portion of our net sales. Net sales to the full-price, off-price and e-commerce operations to our largest wholesale partner, Nordstrom, was 22% of our total revenue for fiscal 2017. During the third quarter of fiscal 2017, we entered into limited distribution arrangements with Nordstrom and Neiman Marcus Group, which will further impact our wholesale partnership base.  We do not have formal written agreements with any of our wholesale partners, and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. A decision by any of our major wholesale partners, including Nordstrom and Neiman Marcus Group, to no longer participate in limited distribution arrangements, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to significantly decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Furthermore, due to the concentration of and/or ownership changes in our wholesale partner base, our results of operations could be adversely affected if any of these wholesale partners fails to satisfy its payment obligations to us when due or no longer takes part in the distribution arrangements. These changes could also decrease our opportunities in the market and decrease our negotiating strength with our wholesale partners. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, especially in light of our new limited wholesale distribution strategy.. Our strategy is to increase focus on our Direct-to-consumer segment, which includes opening retail stores in select locations under more favorable and shorter lease terms and operating and maintaining our new and existing retail stores successfully. If we are unable to execute this strategy in a timely manner, or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. As part of our new strategy to increase focus on our Direct-to-consumer segment, we intend to open retail stores in targeted streets or malls with desired size and adjacencies, typically near luxury retailers that we believe are consistent with our key customers' demographics and shopping preferences, and seek to negotiate more favorable leases including shorter terms. The success of this strategy depends on a number of factors, including the identification of suitable markets and sites, negotiation of acceptable lease terms while securing those favorable locations, including desired term, rent and tenant improvement allowances, and if entering a new market, the timely achievement of brand awareness and proper evaluation of the market particularly for locations with shorter term, affinity and purchase intent in that market, as well as our business condition in funding the opening and operations of stores. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain the successful operation of our retail stores if the areas around our existing retail locations undergo changes that result in reductions in customer foot traffic or otherwise render the locations unsuitable, such as economic downturns in the area, changes in demographics and customer preferences and closing or decline in popularity of the adjacent stores.  During fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, we recorded non-cash asset impairment charges of $5,111 and $2,082, respectively, within selling, general and administrative expenses related to the impairment of property and equipment of certain retail stores with carrying values that were determined not to be recoverable and exceeded fair value. If we are unable to successfully implement our retail strategy in a timely manner, or at all, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, including the potential of further impairments of tangible assets.. As of February 3, 2018, we operated 55 stores, including 41 company-operated full-price stores and 14 company-operated outlet stores throughout the United States. We opened one new store and relocated one store in fiscal 2017 and plan to increase our store base consistent with our new strategy, including the expected net opening of three to five new stores in fiscal 2018.. We are subject to risks associated with leasing retail and office space, are historically subject to long-term non-cancelable leases and are required to make substantial lease payments under our operating leases, and any failure to make these lease payments when due would likely harm our business, profitability and results of operations.. We do not own any of our stores, or our offices including our New York and Los Angeles offices, or our showroom space in Paris but instead lease all of such space under operating leases. Although a few of our leases are subject to shorter terms as a result of the implementation of our new strategy to pursue shorter lease terms, our leases generally have initial terms of 10 years, and generally can be extended only for one additional 5-year term. Substantially all of our leases require a fixed annual rent, and most require the payment of additional rent if store sales exceed a negotiated amount. Most of our leases are \"net\" leases, which require us to pay the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities, and we generally cannot cancel these leases at our option. Additionally, certain of our leases allow the lessor to terminate the lease if we do not achieve a specified gross sales threshold. Although we believe we will achieve the required threshold to continue those leases, we cannot assure you that we will do so. Any loss of our store locations due to underperformance may harm our results of operations, stock price and reputation.. Payments under these leases account for a significant portion of our selling, general and administrative expenses. For example, as of February 3, 2018, we were a party to 60 operating leases associated with our retail stores and our office and showroom spaces requiring future minimum lease payments of $21,122 in the aggregate through fiscal 2018 and $112,398 thereafter. Any new retail. 11. stores leased by us under operating leases will further increase our operating lease expenses and some of those stores may require significant capital expenditures. Our substantial operating lease obligations could have significant negative consequences, including, among others:. •  increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing;. •  requiring a substantial portion of our available cash to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business or in the industry in which we compete; and. •  placing us at a disadvantage with respect to some of our competitors.. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities, and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us from borrowings under our credit facilities or from other sources, we may not be able to service our operating lease expenses, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges or fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which would harm our business.. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term if we cannot negotiate a mutually acceptable termination payment. In addition, as our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations or incur costs in relocating our office space. In fiscal 2018, one of our existing store leases will expire. If we are unable to enter into new leases or renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us or be released from our obligations under leases for stores that we close, our business, profitability and results of operations may be harmed.. Our plans to improve and expand our product offerings may not be successful, and the implementation of these plans may divert our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could harm our competitive position and reduce our net sales and profitability.. We plan to continue to grow our core product offerings and introduce new categories such as lifestyle products. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we launched our capsule home collection and re-launched our handbag collection in our Direct-to-consumer segment.  We have also continued to partner with various third parties since the launch of Vince Collective in December 2016, through which we offer a curated selection of home goods and accessories in select retail stores and on our website.. The principal risks to our ability to successfully carry out our plans to improve and expand our product offerings are that:. •  if our expected product offerings fail to maintain and enhance our brand identity, our image may be diminished or diluted and our sales may decrease;. •  if we fail to find and enter into relationships with external partners with the necessary specialized expertise or execution capabilities, we may be unable to offer our planned product extensions or to realize the additional revenue we have targeted for those extensions;. •  the use of licensing partners may limit our ability to conduct comprehensive final quality checks on merchandise before it is shipped to our stores or to our wholesale partners; and. •  our exposure to product liability claims may increase as we add product categories that have different liability profiles than those of our historical product offerings.. In addition, our ability to successfully carry out our plans to improve and expand our product offerings may be affected by economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer preferences and style trends. These plans could be abandoned, cost more than anticipated or divert resources from other areas of our business, any of which could negatively impact our competitive position and reduce our net revenue and profitability.. Problems with our distribution process could materially harm our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sale transactions and achieve targeted operating efficiencies.. In the U.S., we rely on a distribution facility operated by a third-party logistics provider in California. Our ability to meet the needs of our wholesale partners and our own Direct-to-consumer business depends on the proper operation of this distribution facility. We also have a warehouse in Belgium operated by a third-party logistics provider to support our wholesale orders for customers located primarily in Europe. In first quarter of 2018, we have also entered in to a warehouse agreement with a third-party logistics provider in Hong Kong. In addition, as part of our distribution arrangements, we are collaborating with our wholesale partners in logistics, which initiatives may impact our overall distribution process.  Because substantially all of our products are distributed from one location, our operations could be interrupted by labor difficulties, or by floods, fires, earthquakes or other natural disasters near such facility. For example, a majority of our ocean shipments go through the ports in Los Angeles, which had previously been subject to significant processing delays due to labor issues involving the port workers.. 12. We maintain business interruption insurance. These policies, however, may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions to our distribution system. If we encounter problems with any of our distribution processes, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve targeted operating efficiencies could be harmed. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. If we are unable to accurately forecast customer demand for our products, our manufacturers may not be able to deliver products to meet our requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products to our stores, wholesale partners and e-commerce customers, or we could face issues relating to excess inventory.. We stock our stores, and provide inventory to our wholesale partners, based on our or their estimates of future demand for particular products. Our inventory management and planning team determines the number of pieces of each product that we will order from our manufacturers based upon past sales of similar products, sales trend information and anticipated demand at our suggested retail prices. However, if our inventory and planning team fails to accurately forecast customer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage our inventory at a level appropriate for future customer demand.. Factors that could affect our inventory management and planning team's ability to accurately forecast customer demand for our products include:. •  a substantial increase or decrease in demand for our products or for products of our competitors;. •  our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance for our new products;. •  new product introductions or pricing strategies by competitors;. •  changes in our product items across seasonal fashion items and replenishment;. •  changes to our overall seasonal promotional cadence and the number and timing of promotional events;. •  more limited historical store sales information for our newer markets;. •  weakening of economic conditions or consumer confidence in the future, which could reduce demand for discretionary items, such as our products; and. •  acts or threats of war or terrorism which could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of our products and our raw materials.. In fiscal 2015, we recorded a charge of $10,300 associated with inventory write-downs of excess and aged product inventory. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to match supply with demand in all cases in the future, whether as a result of our inability to produce sufficient levels of desirable product or our failure to forecast demand accurately. As a result of these inabilities or failures, we may in the future encounter further difficulties in filling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventory at discount prices and may experience significant write-offs. Additionally, if we over-produce a product based on an aggressive forecast of demand, retailers may not be able to sell the product and cancel future orders or require give backs. These outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our brand image, sales, gross margins and profitability.. Intense competition in the apparel and fashion industry could reduce our sales and profitability.. As a fashion company, we face intense competition from other domestic and foreign apparel, footwear and accessories manufacturers and retailers. Competition has and may continue to result in pricing pressures, reduced profit margins, lost market share or failure to grow our market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Competition is based on many factors including, without limitation, the following:. •  establishing and maintaining favorable brand recognition;. •  developing products that appeal to consumers;. •  pricing products appropriately;. •  determining and maintaining product quality;. •  obtaining access to sufficient floor space in retail locations;. •  providing appropriate services and support to retailers;. •  maintaining and growing market share;. •  developing and maintaining a competitive e-commerce site;. •  hiring and retaining key employees; and. •  protecting intellectual property.. Competition in the apparel and fashion industry is intense and is dominated by a number of very large brands, many of which have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, more established relationships with a broader set of suppliers, greater brand recognition and greater financial, research and development, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. These capabilities of our competitors may allow them to better withstand downturns in the economy or apparel and fashion industry. Any increased. 13. competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors which we have seen from time to time, could result in reduced sales, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Competition, along with such other factors as consolidation within the retail industry and changes in consumer spending patterns, could also result in significant pricing pressure and cause the sales environment to be more promotional, as it has been in recent years, impacting our financial results. If promotional pressure remains intense, either through actions of our competitors or through customer expectations, this may cause a further reduction in our sales and gross margins and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our business depends on a strong brand image, and if we are not able to maintain or enhance our brand, particularly in new markets where we have limited brand recognition, we may be unable to sell sufficient quantities of our merchandise, which would harm our business and cause our results of operations to suffer.. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the Vince brand is critical to maintaining and expanding our customer base. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments in areas such as visual merchandising, marketing and advertising, employee training and store operations. We anticipate that, as our business expands into new markets and further penetrates existing markets, and as the markets in which we operate become increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Certain of our competitors in the fashion industry have faced adverse publicity surrounding the quality, attributes and performance of their products. Our brand may similarly be adversely affected if our public image or reputation is tarnished by failing to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity. Any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to be a leading global luxury apparel and accessories brand and to continue to provide high quality products. If we are unable to maintain or enhance our brand image, our results of operations may suffer and our business may be harmed.. General economic conditions in the U.S. and other parts of the world, including a continued weakening of the economy and restricted credit markets, can affect consumer confidence and consumer spending patterns.. The success of our operations depends on consumer spending. Consumer spending is impacted by a number of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment, wages, energy costs and consumer debt levels), customer traffic within shopping and selling environments, business conditions, interest rates and availability of credit and tax rates in the general economy and in the international, regional and local markets in which our products are sold. Global economic conditions historically included significant recessionary pressures and declines in employment levels, disposable income and actual and/or perceived wealth and further declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. A depressed economic environment is often characterized by a decline in consumer discretionary spending and has disproportionately affected retailers and sellers of consumer goods, particularly those whose goods are viewed as discretionary or luxury purchases, including fashion apparel and accessories such as ours. Such factors as well as another shift towards recessionary conditions have impacted, and could further adversely impact, our sales volumes and overall profitability. Further, economic and political volatility and declines in the value of foreign currencies could negatively impact the global economy as a whole and have a material adverse effect on the profitability and liquidity of our operations, as well as hinder our ability to grow through expansion in the international markets. In addition, domestic and international political situations also affect consumer confidence, including the threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities around the world.. If we lose any key personnel, are unable to attract key personnel, or assimilate and retain our key personnel, we may not be able to successfully operate or grow our business.. Our continued success is dependent on our ability to attract, assimilate, retain and motivate qualified management, designers, administrative talent and sales associates to support existing operations and future growth. Competition for qualified talent in the apparel and fashion industry is intense, and we compete for these individuals with other companies that in many cases have greater financial and other resources. The loss of the services of any members of senior management or the inability to attract and retain qualified executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we will need to continue to attract, assimilate, retain and motivate highly talented employees with a range of other skills and experience.   Competition for employees in our industry, especially at the store management levels, is intense and we may from time to time experience difficulty in retaining our associates or attracting the additional talent necessary to support the growth of our business. We will also need to attract, assimilate and retain other professionals across a range of disciplines, including design, production, sourcing and international business, as we develop new product categories and continue to expand our international presence.. Our competitive position could suffer if our intellectual property rights are not protected.. We believe that our trademarks and designs are of great value. From time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property. In some cases, third parties with similar trademarks or other. 14. intellectual property may have pre-existing and potentially conflicting trademark registrations. We rely on cooperation from third parties with similar trademarks to be able to register our trademarks in jurisdictions in which such third parties have already registered their trademarks. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. Imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. The actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights or in similar marks or marks that we license and/or market and we may not be able to successfully resolve these conflicts to our satisfaction. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling some of our products. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our products, license rights from third parties or cease using those rights altogether. Any of these events could harm our business and cause our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition to suffer.. We license our website domain name from a third-party. Pursuant to the license agreement (the \"Domain License Agreement\"), our license to use www.vince.com will expire in 2018 and will automatically renew for successive one-year periods, subject to our right to terminate the arrangement with or without cause; provided, that we must pay the applicable early termination fee and provide 30 days prior notice in connection with a termination without cause. The licensor has no termination rights under the Domain License Agreement. Any failure by the licensor to perform its obligations under the License Agreement could adversely affect our brand and make it more difficult for users to find our website.. System security risk issues as well as other major system failures could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services, and any such disruption could negatively impact our net sales, increase our expenses and harm our reputation.. Experienced computer programmers and hackers, and even internal users, may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, including our customers, enter into or facilitate fraudulent transactions, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. In addition, employee error, malfeasance or other errors in the storage, use or transmission of any such information could result in a disclosure to third parties outside of our network. As a result, we could incur significant expenses addressing problems created by any such inadvertent disclosure or any security breaches of our network. In addition, we rely on third parties for the operation of our website, www.vince.com, and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy.. Consumers are increasingly concerned over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy, and any compromise of customer information could subject us to customer or government litigation and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and growth. Moreover, we could incur significant expenses or disruptions of our operations in connection with system failures or breaches. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs\" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our systems. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs, or any problems associated with our newly transitioned systems or outsourced services could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that may impede our sales, distribution or other critical functions. In addition to taking the necessary precautions ourselves, we require that third-party service providers implement reasonable security measures to protect our customers' identity and privacy as well as credit card information. We do not, however, control these third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future. We could also incur significant costs in complying with the multitude of state, federal and foreign laws, including the European Union's general data protection regulations to be effective in May 2018, regarding the use and unauthorized disclosure of personal information, to the extent they are applicable. In the case of a disaster affecting our information technology systems, we may experience delays in recovery of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support our operations and other breakdowns in normal communication and operating procedures that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our limited operating experience and brand recognition in international markets may delay our expansion strategy and cause our business and growth to suffer.. We face risks with respect to our strategy to expand internationally, including our efforts to further expand our business in Canada, select European countries, Asia and the Middle East through company-operated locations, wholesale arrangements as well as with international partners. Our current operations are based largely in the U.S., with international wholesale sales representing 9% of net sales for fiscal 2017. Therefore, we have a limited number of customers and experience in operating outside of the U.S. We also do not have extensive experience with regulatory environments and market practices outside of the U.S. and cannot guarantee, notwithstanding our international partners' familiarity with such environments and market practices, that we will be able to penetrate or successfully operate in any market outside of the U.S. Many of these markets have different operational characteristics, including. 15. employment and labor regulations, transportation, logistics, real estate (including lease terms) and local reporting or legal requirements.. Furthermore, consumer demand and behavior, as well as style preferences, size and fit, and purchasing trends, may differ in these markets and, as a result, sales of our product may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those that we currently anticipate. In addition, in many of these markets there is significant competition to attract and retain experienced and talented employees. Failure to develop new markets outside of the U.S. or disappointing sales growth outside of the U.S. may harm our business and results of operations.. In particular, we are subject to French laws including tax, employment and corporate laws because of our presence in France through our French subsidiary and the French branch of Vince, LLC. If we fail to comply with some or all of those laws, we may be subject to fines or penalties that could negatively impact our business and results of operations.. Our current and future licensing arrangements may not be successful and may make us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control.. We currently have product licensing agreements for women's footwear and men's footwear. In the future, we may enter into select additional licensing arrangements for product offerings which require specialized expertise. In addition, we have entered into select licensing agreements pursuant to which we have granted certain third parties the right to distribute and sell our products in certain geographic areas, and may continue to do so in the future. Although we have taken and will continue to take steps to select potential licensing partners carefully and monitor the activities of our existing licensing partners (through, among other things, approval rights over product design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, marketing, distribution and advertising), such arrangements may not be successful. Our licensing partners may fail to fulfill their obligations under their license agreements or have interests that differ from or conflict with our own, such as the pricing of our products and the offering of competitive products. In addition, the risks applicable to the business of our licensing partners may be different than the risks applicable to our business, including risks associated with each such partner's ability to:. •  obtain capital;. •  exercise operational and financial control over its business;. •  maintain relationships with suppliers;. •  manage its credit and bankruptcy risks; and. •  maintain customer relationships.. Any of the foregoing risks, or the inability of any of our licensing partners to successfully market our products or otherwise conduct its business, may result in loss of revenue and competitive harm to our operations in regions or product categories where we have entered into such licensing arrangements.. The extent of our foreign sourcing may adversely affect our business.. We work with more than 40 manufacturers across eight countries, with 83% of our products produced in China in fiscal 2017. A manufacturing contractor's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet the required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items. The failure to make timely deliveries may cause customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. As a result of the magnitude of our foreign sourcing, our business is subject to the following risks:. •  political and economic instability in countries or regions, especially Asia, including heightened terrorism and other security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional or more frequent inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods;. •  imposition of regulations, quotas and other trade restrictions relating to imports, including quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements between the U.S. and foreign countries;. •  currency exchange rates;. •  imposition of increased duties, taxes and other charges on imports;. •  labor union strikes at ports through which our products enter the U.S.;. •  labor shortages in countries where contractors and suppliers are located;. •  restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries;. •  disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas;. •  the migration and development of manufacturing contractors, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced;. •  increases in the costs of fuel, travel and transportation;. 16. •  reduced manufacturing flexibility because of geographic distance between our foreign manufacturers and us, increasing the risk that we may have to mark down unsold inventory as a result of misjudging the market for a foreign-made product; and. •  violations by foreign contractors of labor and wage standards and resulting adverse publicity.. If these risks limit or prevent us from manufacturing products in any significant international market, prevent us from acquiring products from foreign suppliers, or significantly increase the cost of our products, our operations could be seriously disrupted until alternative suppliers are found or alternative markets are developed, which could negatively impact our business.. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delays and increase costs and cause our operating results and financial condition to suffer.. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials, particularly cotton, silk, leather and synthetics used in our manufactured apparel, could have a material adverse effect on cost of sales or our ability to meet customer demands. The prices of fabrics depend largely on the market prices of the raw materials used to produce them. The price and availability of the raw materials and, in turn, the fabrics used in our apparel may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields, weather patterns, labor costs and changes in oil prices. We may not be able to create suitable design solutions that utilize raw materials with attractive prices or, alternatively, to pass higher raw materials prices and related transportation costs on to our customers. We are not always successful in our efforts to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of raw materials, and our business can be materially affected by dramatic movements in prices of raw materials. The ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in raw materials prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any significant increase in these prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our reliance on independent manufacturers could cause delays or quality issues which could damage customer relationships.. We use independent manufacturers to assemble or produce all of our products, whether inside or outside the U.S. We are dependent on the ability of these independent manufacturers to adequately finance the production of goods ordered and maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity. The use of independent manufacturers to produce finished goods and the resulting lack of direct control could subject us to difficulty in obtaining timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. We generally do not have long-term written agreements with any independent manufacturers. As a result, any single manufacturing contractor could unilaterally terminate its relationship with us at any time. Our top five manufacturers accounted for the production of approximately 52% of our finished products during fiscal 2017. Supply disruptions from these manufacturers (or any of our other manufacturers) could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands, if we are unable to source suitable replacement materials at acceptable prices or at all. Moreover, alternative manufacturers, if available, may not be able to provide us with products or services of a comparable quality, at an acceptable price or on a timely basis. We may also, from time to time, make a decision to enter into a relationship with a new manufacturer. Identifying a suitable supplier is an involved process that requires us to become satisfied with their quality control, responsiveness and service, financial stability and labor and other ethical practices. There can be no assurance that there will not be a disruption in the supply of our products from independent manufacturers or that any new manufacturer will be successful in producing our products in a manner we expected. Moreover, during fiscal 2017, certain manufacturers demanded accelerated payment terms or prepayments as a condition to delivering finished goods to us, which required us to take various steps to address those requests to avoid disruptions in product deliveries and to return to normal terms. There can be no assurance that such demands would not recur in the future. In the event of any disruption with a manufacturer, we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative manufacturers in a timely and cost-efficient manner. The failure of any independent manufacturer to perform or the loss of any independent manufacturer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If our independent manufacturers fail to use ethical business practices and comply with applicable laws and regulations, our brand image could be harmed due to negative publicity.. We have established and currently maintain operating guidelines which promote ethical business practices such as fair wage practices, compliance with child labor laws and other local laws. While we monitor compliance with those guidelines, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their business practices. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee their compliance with our guidelines. A lack of demonstrated compliance could lead us to seek alternative suppliers, which could increase our costs and result in delayed delivery of our products, product shortages or other disruptions of our operations.. Violation of labor or other laws by our independent manufacturers or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's labor or other practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S. or other markets in which we do business could also attract negative publicity for us and our brand. From time to time, our audit results have revealed a lack of compliance in certain respects, including with respect to local labor, safety and environmental laws. Other fashion companies have faced criticism after highly-publicized incidents or compliance issues have occurred or been exposed at factories producing their products. To the extent our manufacturers do not bring their operations into compliance with such laws or resolve material issues identified in any of our audit. 17. results, we may face similar criticism and negative publicity. This could diminish the value of our brand image and reduce demand for our merchandise. In addition, other fashion companies have encountered organized boycotts of their products in such situations. If we, or other companies in our industry, encounter similar problems in the future, it could harm our brand image, stock price and results of operations.. Monitoring compliance by independent manufacturers is complicated by the fact that expectations of ethical business practices continually evolve, may be substantially more demanding than applicable legal requirements and are driven in part by legal developments and by diverse groups active in publicizing and organizing public responses to perceived ethical shortcomings. Accordingly, we cannot predict how such expectations might develop in the future and cannot be certain that our guidelines would satisfy all parties who are active in monitoring and publicizing perceived shortcomings in labor and other business practices worldwide.. Our operating results may be subject to seasonal and quarterly variations in our net revenue and income from operations.. The apparel and fashion industry in which we operate is cyclical and, consequently, our revenues are affected by general economic conditions and the seasonal trends characteristic to the apparel and fashion industry.  Purchases of apparel are sensitive to a number of factors that influence the level of consumer spending, including economic conditions and the level of disposable consumer income, consumer debt, interest rates, consumer confidence as well as the impact from adverse weather conditions. In addition, fluctuations in the amount of sales in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting direct-to-consumer sales; as such, the financial results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of results for the fiscal year. Any future seasonal or quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations may not match the expectations of market analysts and investors to assess the longer-term profitability and strength of our business at any particular point, which could lead to increased volatility in our stock price.. Changes in laws could make conducting our business more expensive or otherwise change the way we do business.. We are subject to numerous domestic and international regulations, including labor and employment, customs, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection, data protection, and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of stores and warehouse facilities. If these regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees, vendors, independent manufacturers or partners, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our products, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and hurt our business and results of operations.. In addition to increased regulatory compliance requirements, changes in laws could make ordinary conduct of business more expensive or require us to change the way we do business. For example, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws could raise the wage requirements for certain of our employees at our retail locations, which would increase our selling costs and may cause us to reexamine our wage structure for such employees. Other laws related to employee benefits and treatment of employees, including laws related to limitations on employee hours, supervisory status, leaves of absence, mandated health benefits, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates and citizenship requirements, could negatively impact us, by increasing compensation and benefits costs which would in turn reduce our profitability.. Moreover, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws could lead to increased costs to us for certain merchandise, or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for sale. It is often difficult for us to plan and prepare for potential changes to applicable laws and future actions or payments related to such changes could be material to us.. Our results of operations and financial condition and/or our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected by U.S. federal income tax reform.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"TCJA\") was enacted, which contains significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including, but not limited to, a reduction in the corporate tax rate and a transition to a new territorial system of taxation. The primary impact of the new legislation on our consolidated financial statements was a reduction of the future tax benefits of our deferred tax assets as a result of the reduction in the corporate tax rate. However, since we have recorded a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, we do not currently anticipate that these changes will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The impact of TCJA will likely be subject to ongoing technical guidance and accounting interpretation, which we will continue to monitor and assess. Provisional accounting impacts may change in future reporting periods until the accounting analysis is finalized, which will occur no later than one year from the date TCJA was enacted.. Changes in corporate tax rates and the deductibility of expenses contained in TCJA or other tax reform legislation could have a material impact on the future value of our deferred tax assets, could result in significant costs or expenses in the current or future taxable years, and could increase our future U.S. tax expense. In addition, foreign governments or U.S. states may enact tax laws in. 18. response to TCJA that could result in further changes to taxation applicable to us and materially affect our operating results and financial condition.. The impact of TCJA on our stockholders is uncertain and could be adverse. This Annual Report does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect investors of our common stock. Investors should consult with their own tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. We are required to pay to the Pre-IPO Stockholders 85% of certain tax benefits, and could be required to make substantial cash payments in which our stockholders will not participate.. We entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement with the Pre-IPO Stockholders (as defined therein) in connection with the IPO and Restructuring Transactions which closed on November 27, 2013. Under the Tax Receivable Agreement, we will be obligated to pay to the Pre-IPO Stockholders an amount equal to 85% of the cash savings in federal, state and local income tax realized by us by virtue of our future use of the federal, state and local net operating losses (\"NOLs\") held by us as of November 27, 2013, together with section 197 intangible deductions (collectively, the \"Pre-IPO Tax Benefits\"). \"Section 197 intangible deductions\" means amortization deductions with respect to certain amortizable intangible assets which are held by us and our subsidiaries immediately after November 27, 2013. Cash tax savings generally will be computed by comparing our actual federal, state and local income tax liability to the amount of such taxes that we would have been required to pay had such Pre-IPO Tax Benefits not been available to us. Assuming the federal, state and local corporate income tax rates presently in effect which includes the impact of the TCJA, no material change in applicable tax law and no limitation on our ability to use the Pre-IPO Tax Benefits under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the \"Code\"), the estimated cash benefit of the full use of these Pre-IPO Tax Benefits as of February 3, 2018 would be approximately $106,884, of which 85%, or approximately $90,851 plus accrued interest, is potentially payable to the Pre-IPO Stockholders under the terms of the Tax Receivable Agreement. As of February 3, 2018, $58,616, plus accrued interest, is currently outstanding. Accordingly, the Tax Receivable Agreement could require us to make substantial cash payments.. Payments made under the Tax Receivable Agreement will depend upon a number of factors, including the amount and timing of taxable income we generate in the future and any future limitations that may be imposed on our ability to use the Pre-IPO Tax Benefits, and estimating future taxable income is inherently uncertain and requires judgment.  If we determine in the future that the estimate should be revised, we would be required to either recognize additional liability related to tax benefits expected to be utilized or derecognize liability relating to tax benefits no longer expected to be utilized, which could result in material modifications to our financial statements.. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") to challenge any tax benefits arising under the Tax Receivable Agreement, the affiliates of Sun Capital will not reimburse us for any payments previously made if such benefits subsequently were disallowed, although the amount of any tax savings subsequently disallowed will reduce any future payment otherwise owed to the Pre-IPO Stockholders. For example, if our determinations regarding the applicability (or lack thereof) and amount of any limitations on the NOLs under Section 382 of the Code were to be successfully challenged by the IRS after payments relating to such NOLs had been made to the Pre-IPO Stockholders, we would not be reimbursed by the Pre-IPO Stockholders and our recovery would be limited to the extent of future payments (if any) otherwise remaining under the Tax Receivable Agreement. As a result, in such circumstances we could make payments to the Pre-IPO Stockholders under the Tax Receivable Agreement in excess of our actual cash tax savings.. At the effective date of the Tax Receivable Agreement, the liability recognized was accounted for in our financial statements as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. Subsequent changes in the Tax Receivable Agreement liability will be recorded through earnings. Even if the NOLs are available to us, the Tax Receivable Agreement will operate to transfer 85% of the benefit to the Pre-IPO Stockholders. Additionally, the payments we make to the Pre-IPO Stockholders under the Tax Receivable Agreement are not expected to give rise to any incidental tax benefits to us, such as deductions or an adjustment to the basis of our assets.. Federal and state laws impose substantial restrictions on the utilization of NOL carry-forwards in the event of an \"ownership change,\" as defined in Section 382 of the Code. Under the rules, such an ownership change is generally any change in ownership of more than 50 percent of a company's stock within a rolling three-year period, as calculated in accordance with the rules. The rules generally operate by focusing on changes in ownership among stockholders considered by the rules as owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of the company and any change in ownership arising from new issuances of stock by the company.. While we have performed an analysis under Section 382 of the Code that indicates the IPO and Restructuring Transactions would not constitute an ownership change, such technical guidelines are complex and subject to significant judgment and interpretation. With the IPO and Restructuring Transactions and other transactions that have occurred over the past three years, we may trigger or have already triggered an \"ownership change\" limitation. We may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in stock ownership. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use the pre-change NOL carry-forwards (after giving effect to payments to be made to the Pre-IPO Stockholders under the Tax Receivable Agreement) to offset U.S. federal taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. Notwithstanding the foregoing, our analysis to date under Section 382 of the Code indicates that the IPO Restructuring Transactions have not triggered an \"ownership change\" limitation.. 19. If we did not enter into the Tax Receivable Agreement, we would be entitled to realize the full economic benefit of the Pre-IPO Tax Benefits, to the extent allowed by federal, state and local law, including Section 382 of the Code. Subject to exceptions, the Tax Receivable Agreement is designed with the objective of causing our annual cash costs attributable to federal state and local income taxes (without regard to our continuing 15% interest in the Pre-IPO Tax Benefits) to be the same as we would have paid had we not had the Pre-IPO Tax Benefits available to offset our federal, state and local taxable income. As a result, we will not be entitled to the economic benefit of the Pre-IPO Tax Benefits that would have been available if the Tax Receivable Agreement were not in effect (except to the extent of our continuing 15% interest in the Pre-IPO Tax Benefits).. In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement to the Pre-IPO Stockholders may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the Pre-IPO Tax Benefits.. Upon the election of an affiliate of Sun Capital to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement pursuant to a change in control (as defined in the Tax Receivable Agreement) or upon our election to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early, all of our payment and other obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be accelerated and will become due and payable. Additionally, the Tax Receivable Agreement provides that in the event that we breach any of our material obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement by operation of law as a result of the rejection of the Tax Receivable Agreement in a case commenced under Title 11 of the United States Code (the \"Bankruptcy Code\") then all of our payment and other obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be accelerated and will become due and payable.. In the case of any such acceleration, we would be required to make an immediate payment equal to 85% of the present value of the tax savings represented by any portion of the Pre-IPO Tax Benefits for which payment under the Tax Receivable Agreement has not already been made, which upfront payment may be made years in advance of the actual realization of such future benefits. Such payments could be substantial and could exceed our actual cash tax savings from the Pre-IPO Tax Benefits. In these situations, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient cash available or that we will be able to finance our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement.. If we were to elect to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement, based on a discount rate equal to monthly LIBOR plus 200 basis points, we estimate that as of February 3, 2018 we would be required to pay approximately $48,127 in the aggregate under the Tax Receivable Agreement.. We could incur significant costs in complying with environmental, health and safety laws or as a result of satisfying any liability or obligation imposed under such laws.. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We could be held liable for the costs to address contamination of any real property ever owned, operated or used as a disposal site. In addition, in the event that Kellwood becomes financially incapable of addressing the environmental liability incurred prior to the structural reorganization separating Kellwood from Vince that occurred on November 27, 2013, a third party may file suit and attempt to allege that Kellwood and Vince engaged in a fraudulent transfer by arguing that the purpose of the separation of the non-Vince assets from Vince Holding Corp. was to insulate our assets from the environmental liability. For example, pursuant to a Consent Decree with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") and the State of Missouri, a non-Vince subsidiary, which was separated from us in the Restructuring Transactions, is conducting a cleanup of contamination at the site of a plant in New Haven, Missouri, which occurred between 1973 and 1985. Kellwood has posted a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $5,900 as a performance guarantee for the estimated cost of the required remediation work. In connection with the Kellwood Sale, the letter of credit was transferred to the account of the Kellwood Purchaser. If, despite the financial assurance provided by the letter of credit as required by the EPA, the buyer of Kellwood became financially unable to address this remediation, and if the corporate separateness of Vince is disregarded or if a fraudulent transfer is found to have occurred, we could be liable for the full amount of the remediation. If this were to occur or if we were to become liable for other environmental liabilities or obligations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Any disputes that arise between us and St. Louis, LLC, or between us and Kellwood, which is now an unaffiliated entity, with respect to our past relationships, could materially harm our business operations.. Disputes may arise between St. Louis, LLC and us with respect to any past transitional services provided under the Shared Services Agreement.  In addition, disputes may arise between us and Kellwood, which is now an unaffiliated entity as a result of the Kellwood Sale, in a number of areas relating to our past relationships, including intellectual property and technology matters; information retention, labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from Kellwood.. Any dispute relating to the Shared Services Agreement may not be addressed adequately as St. Louis, LLC is now an entity with no operations.  In addition, we may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with Kellwood and the resolution might be more. 20. difficult with an unaffiliated party due to, among other things, lack of historical knowledge and understanding of the nature of our past relationship with Kellwood.  Any such dispute, if not resolved, could materially harm our business operations.. Risks Related to Our Structure and Ownership. We are currently subject to ongoing quarterly monitoring by the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\"), triggered by our non-compliance with the NYSE's market capitalization requirement, and we are at risk of NYSE delisting our common stock, which could materially impair the liquidity and value of our common stock.. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. On May 17, 2017, we were notified by the NYSE that (i) the average closing price of our common stock had fallen below $1.00 per share over a period of 30 consecutive trading days, which is the minimum average share price required by NYSE and (ii) the average global market capitalization over a consecutive thirty trading-day period had fallen below $50,000 at the same time our stockholders' equity was less than $50,000.. At the close of business on October 23, 2017, the Company effected a 1-for-10 reverse stock split whereby every 10 shares of the Company's issued and outstanding common stock were automatically converted into one share of common stock (the \"Reverse Stock Split\").  Following the Reverse Stock Split, the closing price of our common stock on October 31, 2017 was above $1.00 and the average price of our common stock for the 30-trading day period ended October 31, 2017 was above $1.00.  As a result, on November 1, 2017, the Company received a letter from NYSE stating that the Company was no longer considered below the NYSE's $1.00 continued listing criterion.. However, the Company currently continues to be subject to ongoing quarterly monitoring for compliance with the business plan previously submitted to and accepted by NYSE for an 18-month period concluding in February 2019, which was triggered by its non-compliance with respect to the requirement to maintain a 30-trading day average market capitalization of at least $50,000 or $50,000 of stockholders' equity.. Pursuant to NYSE rules, the Company's common stock will continue to be listed and traded on NYSE during the cure period outlined above, subject to the Company's compliance with other typical continued listing requirements. The current noncompliance with the standard described above does not affect the Company's ongoing business operations or its reporting requirements with the SEC, nor does it trigger any violation of its material debt covenants or other obligations.. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to regain compliance with these requirements or maintain compliance with the other continued listing requirements set forth in the NYSE Listed Company Manual. If the Company's common stock ultimately were to be suspended from trading and delisted for any reason, it could have adverse consequences including, among others, reduced trading liquidity for our common stock, lower demand and market price for our common stock, adverse publicity and a reduced interest in the Company from investors, analysts and other market participants. In addition, a suspension or delisting could impair the Company's ability to raise additional capital through the public markets and the Company's ability to attract and retain employees by means of equity compensation.. We are a \"controlled company,\" controlled by investment funds advised by affiliates of Sun Capital, whose interests in our business may be different from yours.. Affiliates of Sun Capital Partners, Inc. (\"Sun Capital\") owned approximately 73% of our outstanding common stock as of March 30, 2018. As such, affiliates of Sun Capital will, for the foreseeable future, have significant influence over our reporting and corporate management and affairs, and will be able to control virtually all matters requiring stockholder approval. For so long as affiliates of Sun Capital own 30% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock, Sun Cardinal, LLC, an affiliate of Sun Capital, will have the right to designate a majority of our board of directors. For so long as affiliates of Sun Capital have the right to designate a majority of our board of directors, the directors designated by affiliates of Sun Capital are expected to constitute a majority of each committee of our board of directors, other than the Audit Committee, and the chairman of each of the committees, other than the Audit Committee, is expected to be a director serving on such committee who is designated by affiliates of Sun Capital, provided that, at such time as we are not a \"controlled company\" under the NYSE corporate governance standards, our committee membership will comply with all applicable requirements of those standards and a majority of our board of directors will be \"independent directors,\" as defined under the rules of the NYSE (subject to applicable phase-in rules).. As a \"controlled company,\" the rules of the NYSE exempt us from the obligation to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that a majority of our board of directors consists of \"independent directors,\" as defined under such rules, and that we have nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees that are each composed entirely of independent directors. These exemptions do not modify the requirement for a fully independent audit committee, which we have. Similarly, once we are no longer a \"controlled company,\" we must comply with the independent board committee requirements as they relate to the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees, which are permitted to be phased-in as follows: (1) one independent committee member on the date we cease to be a \"controlled company\"; (2) a majority of independent committee. 21. members within 90 days of such date; and (3) all independent committee members within one year of such date. Additionally, we will have 12 months from the date we cease to be a \"controlled company\" to have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors.. Affiliates of Sun Capital control actions to be taken by us, our board of directors and our stockholders, including amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers and sales of substantially all of our assets. The directors designated by affiliates of Sun Capital have the authority, subject to the terms of our indebtedness and the rules and regulations of the NYSE, to issue additional stock, implement stock repurchase programs, declare dividends and make other decisions. The NYSE independence standards are intended to ensure that directors who meet the independence standard are free of any conflicting interest that could influence their actions as directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the doctrine of \"corporate opportunity\" does not apply against Sun Capital or its affiliates, or any of our directors who are associates of, or affiliated with, Sun Capital, in a manner that would prohibit them from investing in competing businesses or doing business with our partners or customers. It is possible that the interests of Sun Capital and its affiliates may in some circumstances conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders, including you. For example, Sun Capital may have different tax positions from other stockholders which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when we should dispose of assets, whether and when we should incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the Tax Receivable Agreement, and whether and when we should terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement and accelerate our obligations thereunder. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration tax or other considerations of Sun Capital and its affiliates even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. See \"Tax Receivable Agreement\" under Note 12 \"Related Party Transactions\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.. We are a holding company and we are dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses.. Vince Holding Corp. is a holding company with no material assets other than its ownership of membership interests in Vince Intermediate Holding, LLC, a holding company that has no material assets other than its interest in Vince, LLC and its foreign subsidiaries. In addition, Vince Holding Corp. holds the remaining proceeds from the 2016 Rights Offering and 2017 Rights Offering. Neither Vince Holding Corp. nor Vince Intermediate Holding, LLC have any independent means of generating revenue. To the extent that we need funds, for a cash dividend to holders of our common stock or otherwise, and Vince Intermediate Holding, LLC or Vince, LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. We file consolidated income tax returns on behalf of Vince Holding Corp. and Vince Intermediate Holding, LLC. Most of our future tax obligations will likely be attributed to the operations of Vince, LLC. Accordingly, most of the payments against the Tax Receivable Agreement will be attributed to the operations of Vince, LLC. We intend to cause Vince, LLC to pay distributions or make funds available to us in an amount sufficient to allow us to pay our taxes and any payments due to the Pre-IPO stockholders under the Tax Receivable Agreement. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we do not have sufficient funds to pay tax or other liabilities, we may have to borrow funds and thus our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest at a default rate of one-year LIBOR plus 500 basis points until paid. See \"Tax Receivable Agreement\" under Note 12 \"Related Party Transactions\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the terms of the Tax Receivable Agreement.. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay and discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider to be favorable.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our Company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include:. •  the classification of our board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time;. •  the authorization of the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock;. •  stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent following the time that Sun Capital and its affiliates cease to beneficially own a majority of our common stock;. •  advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings;. •  removal of directors only for cause following the time that Sun Capital and its affiliates cease to beneficially own a majority of our common stock;. •  allowing Sun Cardinal to fill any vacancy on our board of directors for so long as affiliates of Sun Capital own 30% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock and thereafter, allowing only our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and. 22. •  following the time that Sun Capital and its affiliates cease to beneficially own a majority of our common stock, super-majority voting requirements to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also contains a provision that provides us with protections similar to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (\"DGCL\"), and prevents us from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with a person or group who acquires at least 15% of our voting stock for a period of three years from the date such person became an interested stockholder, unless board or stockholder approval is obtained prior to acquisition. However, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that both Sun Capital and its affiliates and any persons to whom a Sun Capital affiliate sells its common stock will be deemed to have been approved by our board of directors.. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change of control of our Company, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the sole and exclusive forum for any of the following: any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; any action asserting a claim against us arising under the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and have elected to comply with reduced public company reporting requirements, which could make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (\"JOBS\") Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we have chosen to take advantage of certain exemptions from various public company reporting requirements. These exemptions include, but are not limited to, (i) not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports, proxy statements and registration statements, and (iii) exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We have taken advantage of certain of the reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in certain of our reports filed with the SEC and may elect to take advantage of other reduced burdens in future filings. As a result, the information we provide to holders of our common stock may be different than you might receive from other public reporting companies in which you hold equity interests. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result of our reliance on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any choice we make to reduce disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and the price for our common stock may be more volatile.. As an emerging growth company, we are not required to comply with the rules of the SEC implementing Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and therefore our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting until the fiscal year after the fiscal year we cease to be an emerging growth company. We are required, however, to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Section 302 and 404 other than 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These rules require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as and when required by Section 404 or we are required to restate our financial statements, we may fail to meet our public reporting obligations and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock.. We will cease to be an emerging growth company at the end of fiscal 2018. Once we are no longer an emerging growth company, we will become subject to the additional regulatory requirements as described above, unless we are able to rely on other exemptions, which may increase our costs and the demands on management.  If we are not able to comply with the requirements in a timely manner or at all our financial condition or the market price of our stock may be harmed.. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. However, we have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this extended transition. 23. period for complying with new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies."
