[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. Because our revenues and profitability depend on trading volume and volatility in the markets in which we operate, they are subject to factors beyond our control, are prone to significant fluctuations and are difficult to predict.. Our revenues and profitability depend in part on the level of trading activity of securities, derivatives and other financial products on exchanges and in other trading venues in the U.S. and abroad, which are directly affected by factors beyond our control, including economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance and changes in the markets in which such transactions occur. Weaknesses in the markets in which we operate, including economic slowdowns in recent years, have historically resulted in reduced trading volumes for us. Declines in trading volumes generally result in lower revenues from market making and transaction execution activities. Lower levels of volatility generally have the same directional impact. Declines in market values of securities or other financial instruments can also result in illiquid markets, which can also result in lower revenues and profitability from market making and transaction execution activities. Lower price levels of securities and other financial instruments, as well as compressed bid/ask spreads, which often follow lower pricing, can further result in reduced revenues and profitability. These factors can also increase the potential for losses on securities or other financial instruments held in inventory and failures of buyers and sellers to fulfill their obligations and settle their trades, as well as claims and litigation.  Declines in the trading activity of institutional or \"buy-side\" market participants may result in lower revenue and/or diminished opportunities for us to earn commissions from execution activities.  Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In the past, our revenues and operating results have varied significantly from period to period due primarily to movements and trends in the underlying markets and to fluctuations in trading volumes and volatility levels. As a result, period to period comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful, and future revenues and profitability may be subject to significant fluctuations or declines.. We are dependent upon our trading counterparties and clearing houses to perform their obligations to us.. Our business consists of providing consistent two - sided liquidity to market participants across numerous geographies and asset classes. In the event of a systemic market event, resulting from large price movements or otherwise, certain market participants may not be able to meet their obligations to their trading counterparties, who, in turn, may not be able to meet their obligations to their other trading counterparties, which could lead to major defaults by one or more market participants. Following the implementation of certain mandates under the Dodd - Frank Act in the U.S. and similar legislation worldwide, many trades in the securities and futures markets, and an increasing number of trades in the over - the - counter derivatives markets, are cleared through central counterparties. These central counterparties assume, and specialize in managing, counterparty performance risk relating to such trades. However, even when trades are cleared in this manner, there can be no assurance that a clearing house's risk management methodology will be adequate to manage one or more defaults. Given the concentration of counterparty performance risk that is concentrated in central clearing parties, any failure by a clearing house to properly manage a default could lead to a systemic market failure. If our trading counterparties do not meet their obligations to us, or if any central clearing parties fail to properly manage defaults by market participants, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 15. Table of Contents. We may incur losses in our market making activities and our execution services businesses in the event of failures of our customized trading platform.. The success of our market making business is substantially dependent on the accuracy and performance of our customized trading platform, which evaluates and monitors the risks inherent in our market making strategies and execution services business, assimilates market data and reevaluates our outstanding quotes and positions continuously throughout the trading day. Our strategies are designed to automatically rebalance our positions throughout the trading day to manage risk exposures on our positions. Flaws in our strategies, order management system, latencies or inaccuracies in the market data that we use to generate our quotes, or human error in managing risk parameters or other strategy inputs, may lead to unexpected and unprofitable trades, which may result in material trading losses and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may incur material trading losses from our market making activities.. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from our trading as principal in our role as a formal or registered market maker and liquidity provider on various exchanges and markets, as well as direct to customer market making. We may incur trading losses relating to these activities since each primarily involves the purchase, sale or short sale of securities, futures and other financial instruments for our own account. In any period, we may incur significant trading losses for a variety of reasons, including price changes, performance, size and volatility of  portfolios we may hold in connection with our customer market making activities, lack of liquidity in instruments in which we have positions and the required performance of our market making obligations. Furthermore, we may from time to time develop large position concentrations in securities or other financial instruments of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry, or alternatively a single future or other financial instrument, which would result in the risk of higher trading losses than if our concentration were lower.. These risks may limit or restrict, for example, our ability to either resell securities we have purchased or to repurchase securities we have sold. In addition, we may experience difficulty borrowing securities to make delivery to purchasers to whom we have sold securities short or lenders from whom we have borrowed securities.. In our role as a market maker, we attempt to derive a profit from bid/ask spreads. However, competitive forces often require us to match or improve upon the quotes that other market makers display, thereby narrowing bid/ask spreads, and to hold long or short positions in securities, futures or other financial instruments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage these risks successfully or that we will not experience significant losses from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our risk management activities related to our on exchange market making strategies utilize a four - pronged approach, consisting of strategy lockdowns, centralized strategy monitoring, aggregate exposure monitoring and operational controls. In particular, messages that leave our trading environment first must pass through a series of preset risk controls or \"lockdowns\" that are intended to minimize the likelihood of unintended activities. In certain cases this layer of risk management, which adds a layer of latency to our process, may limit our ability to profit from acute volatility in the markets. This would be the case, for example, where a particular strategy being utilized by one of our traders is temporarily locked down for generating revenue in excess of the preset risk limit. Even if we are able to quickly and correctly identify the reasons for a lockdown and quickly resume the trading strategy, we may limit our potential upside as a result of our risk management policies.. The valuation of the securities we hold at any particular time may result in large and occasionally anomalous swings in the value of our positions and in our earnings in any period.. The market prices of our long and short positions are reflected on our books at closing prices, which are typically the last trade prices before the official close of the primary exchange on which each such security trades. Given that we manage a globally integrated portfolio, we may have large and substantially offsetting positions in securities that trade on different exchanges that close at different times of the trading day and may be denominated in different currencies. Further, there may be large and occasionally anomalous swings in the value of our positions on any particular day and in our earnings in any period. Such swings may be especially pronounced on the last business day of each. 16. Table of Contents. calendar quarter, as the discrepancy in official closing prices resulting from the asynchronous closing times may cause us to recognize a gain or loss in one quarter which would be substantially offset by a corresponding loss or gain in the following quarter.. We are exposed to losses due to lack of perfect information.. As a market maker, we provide liquidity by consistently buying securities from sellers and selling securities to buyers. We may at times trade with others who have information that is more accurate or complete than the information we have, and as a result we may accumulate unfavorable positions preceding large price movements in a given instrument. Should the frequency or magnitude of these events increase, our losses would likely increase correspondingly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We face substantial competition which would harm our financial performance.. Revenues from our market making activities depend on our ability to offer to buy and sell financial instruments at prices that are attractive and represent the best bid and/or offer in a given instrument at a given time. To attract order flow, we compete with other firms not only on our ability to provide liquidity at competitive prices, but also on other factors such as order execution speed and technology.   Similarly, revenues from our technology services and agency execution services depend on our ability to offer cutting edge technology and risk management solutions.. Our competitors include other registered market makers, as well as unregulated or lesser - regulated trading and technology firms that also compete to provide liquidity and Execution Services. Our competitors range from sole proprietors with very limited resources to highly sophisticated groups, hedge funds, well - capitalized broker - dealers and proprietary trading firms or other market makers that have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the market making industry, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth, to manage costs and expenses and to compete for market share generally. Trading firms that are not registered as broker - dealers or broker - dealers not registered as market makers may in some instances have certain advantages over more regulated firms, including our subsidiaries that may allow them to bypass regulatory restrictions and trade more cheaply than more regulated participants on some markets or exchanges. In addition, we may in the future face enhanced competition from new market participants that may also have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, which may result in compressed bid/ask spreads in the marketplace that may negatively impact our financial performance. Moreover, current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties or may consolidate to enhance their services and products. The trend toward increased competition in our business is expected to continue, and it is possible that our competitors may acquire increased market share. Increased competition or consolidation in the marketplace could reduce the bid/ask spreads on which our business and profitability depend, and may also reduce commissions paid by institutional clients for execution services, negatively impacting our financial performance. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our market making business is concentrated in U.S. equities; accordingly, our operating results may be negatively impacted by changes that affect the U.S. equity markets.. Approximately 81% of our market making revenues for 2017 were derived from our market making in U.S. equities. The level of activity in the U.S. equity markets is directly affected by factors beyond our control, including U.S. economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, legislative and regulatory changes and changes in volume and price levels of U.S. equity transactions. As a result, to the extent these or other factors reduce trading volume or volatility or result in a downturn in the U.S. equity markets, we may experience a material adverse effect on, our business, financial condition and operating results.. We could lose significant sources of revenues if we lose any of our larger clients.. At times, a limited number of clients could account for a significant portion of our order flow, revenues. 17. Table of Contents. and profitability, and we expect a large portion of the future demand for, and profitability from, our trade execution services to remain concentrated within a limited number of clients. The loss of one or more larger clients could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability in the future. None of these clients is currently contractually obligated to utilize us for trade execution services and, accordingly, these clients may direct their trade execution activities to other execution providers or market centers at any time. Some of these clients have grown organically or acquired market makers and specialist firms to internalize order flow or will have entered into strategic relationships with competitors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these significant clients or that such clients will maintain or increase their demand for our trade execution services. Further, the continued integration of legacy systems and the development of new systems could result in disruptions to our ongoing businesses and relationships or cause issues with standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, or to solicit new customers. The loss, or a significant reduction, of demand for our services from any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to liquidity risk in our operations.. We require liquidity to fund various ongoing obligations, including operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt service and dividend payments. Our main sources of liquidity are cash flow from the operations of our subsidiaries, our broker - dealer revolving credit facility (described under \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Long-Term Borrowings\"), margin financing provided by our prime brokers and cash on hand. Our liquidity could be materially impaired by a number of factors, including reduced business activity due to a market downturn, adverse regulatory action or a downgrade of our credit rating. If our business activities decrease or we are unable to borrow additional funds in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Self - clearing and other elements of our trade processing operations expose us to significant operational, financial and liquidity risks.. We currently self - clear substantially all of our domestic equity trades and may expand our self - clearing operations internationally and across product offerings and asset classes in the future. Self - clearing exposes our business to operational risks, including business disruption, operational inefficiencies, liquidity, financing risks, counterparty performance risk and potentially increased expenses and lost revenue opportunities. While our clearing platform, operational processes, risk methodologies, enhanced infrastructure and current and future financing arrangements have been carefully designed, we may nevertheless encounter difficulties that may lead to operating inefficiencies, including delays in implementation, disruption in the infrastructure that supports the business, inadequate liquidity and financial loss. Any such delay, disruption or failure could negatively impact our ability to effect transactions and manage our exposure to risk and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations cash flows.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could negatively impact our business and financial condition, and our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business.. We are a highly leveraged company. As of December 31, 2017, we had an aggregate of $1,431 million outstanding indebtedness under our long-term borrowings. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may need to refinance our debt, dispose of assets or issue equity to obtain necessary funds. We do not know whether we will be able to take any of such actions on a timely basis, on terms satisfactory to us or at all.. Additionally, we are party to the $150.0 million uncommitted facility (the \"Uncommitted Facility \") under which we had $25.0 million of borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2017. We are also are party to the $500.0 million revolving credit facility (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\") under which we had $7.0 million of borrowing outstanding as of December 31, 2017. Also, certain of our non-guarantor subsidiaries are party to various short-term credit facilities with various prime brokers and other financial institutions in an aggregate amount of $543.0 million under which we had $205.7 million in borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2017.. 18. Table of Contents. The Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the Notes contain, and any other existing or future indebtedness of ours may contain a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional debt, guarantee indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity interests;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends on or make distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, our equity interests or make other restricted payments;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake loans or certain investments;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsell certain assets;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate liens on our assets;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconsolidate, merge or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into certain transactions with our affiliates;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdesignate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to successfully execute our strategy, engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. In addition, our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and tests, including interest coverage and total leverage ratios, which may require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives.. We may be unable to remain in compliance with the financial maintenance and other covenants contained in the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, and our obligation to comply with these covenants may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. A failure to comply with the covenants under the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Notes or any of our other future indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any such event of default has occurred and is continuing, the lenders under our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, among other things:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twill not be required to lend any additional amounts to us;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcould elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit; or. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcould effectively prevent us from making debt service payments on the Notes;. any of which could result in an event of default under the Notes or cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we default on our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operation could suffer a material adverse effect.. We pledge substantially all of our and our guarantor subsidiaries' assets as collateral under the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the Notes. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders under the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and, subject to certain intercreditor arrangements, the holders of the Notes, could proceed to exercise remedies against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If any of our outstanding indebtedness under the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Notes or our other indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. We do not have sufficient working capital to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a significant part of our outstanding indebtedness.. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt, which could intensify the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. Borrowings under the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Uncommitted Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on certain of our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed. 19. Table of Contents. remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. We may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk, may prove disadvantageous or may create additional risks. Rising interest rates could also limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing.. Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business.. Securities and derivatives businesses are heavily regulated. Firms in the financial services industry have been subject to an increasingly regulated environment over recent years, and penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased considerably. In addition, following recent news media attention to electronic trading and market structure, the regulatory and enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to various types of transactions that historically had been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. \"High frequency\" and other forms of low latency or electronic trading strategies continue to be the focus of extensive regulatory scrutiny by federal, state and foreign regulators and SROs, and such scrutiny is likely to continue. Our market making and trading activities are characterized by substantial volumes, an emphasis on technology and certain other characteristics that are also commonly associated with high frequency trading. Specifically, both the SEC and the CFTC have issued general concept releases on market structure requesting comment from market participants on topics including, among others, high frequency trading, co - location, dark liquidity, pre -  and post - trade risk controls and system safeguards. The SEC has adopted rules that, among other results, have significantly limited the use of sponsored access by market participants to the U.S. equities exchanges, imposed large trader reporting requirements, restricted short sales in listed securities under certain conditions and required the planning and creation of a new comprehensive consolidated audit trail. The SEC has also approved by order a pilot proposal by the FINRA and the national securities exchanges establishing a \"Limit Up - Limit Down\" mechanism to address market volatility.. In addition, certain market participants, SROs, government officials and regulators have requested that the U.S. Congress, the SEC, and the CFTC propose and adopt additional laws and rules, including rules relating to additional registration requirements, restrictions on co - location, order - to - execution ratios, minimum quote life for orders, incremental messaging fees to be imposed by exchanges for \"excessive\" order placements and/or cancellations, further transaction taxes, tick sizes, changes to maker/taker rebates programs, and other market structure proposals. For example, the SEC adopted Regulation SCI, which imposes compliance and other costs on market centers that may have to pass such costs on to their users, including us, and could impact our future business plans of establishing a market center to avoid or reduce market center costs for certain of our transactions. Similarly, CAT imposes new reporting requirements and additional costs on U.S. broker-dealers. The Tick Pilot program, which is currently underway, includes a \"trade at\" component, requiring that certain of these transactions occur only on an exchange. If the trade at feature is adopted permanently for small capitalization securities without the trade at exemptions that currently exist, and it is not accompanied by a reduction in the fees paid to access liquidity on exchanges, the trade at requirement may increase the costs for certain of our transactions. Finally, the SEC has proposed amendments to regulations that would require our registered broker - dealer that is not currently a FINRA member to become a member of FINRA, which, if adopted as proposed, would subject the broker - dealer to FINRA's rules and require payment of additional fees per trade that could adversely affect our profits given that we seek to make small profits on individual trades.  Additionally, the CFTC has proposed the adoption of Regulation Automated Trading, which would, among other requirements, require registration by direct market participants, mandate the use of certain types of risk controls, and require the maintenance of a source code repository in accordance with certain specifications.. Any or all of these proposals or additional proposals may be adopted by the SEC, CFTC or other U.S. or foreign legislative or regulatory bodies, and recent news media attention to electronic trading and market structure could increase the likelihood of adoption. These potential market structure and regulatory changes could cause a change in the manner in which we make markets, impose additional costs and expenses on our business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, the financial services industry is heavily regulated in many foreign countries, much like in the U.S. The varying compliance requirements of these different regulatory jurisdictions and other factors may limit our ability to conduct business or expand internationally. For example, MiFID, which was implemented in November 2007, has been. 20. Table of Contents. replaced by MiFID II/Markets in Financial Investments Regulation (\"MiFIR\"), which was adopted by the European Parliament on April 15, 2014 and by the Council on May 13, 2014, entered into force on July 2, 2014, and became effective on January 3, 2018. Many MiFID II changes are likely to affect our business. For example, MiFID II requires certain types of firms, including us, to post firm quotes at competitive prices and will supplement current requirements with regard to investment firms' risk controls related to the safe operation of electronic systems. MiFID II will also impose additional requirements on market structure, such as the introduction of a harmonized tick size regime, the introduction of new trading venues known as Organized Trading Facilities, and the promulgation of a new bilateral trading arrangement called the Systematic Internaliser regime, new open access provisions, market making requirements and various other pre -  and post - trade risk management requirements. Each of these and other proposals may impose technological and compliance costs on us. Any of these laws, rules or regulations, as well as changes in legislation or regulation and changes in market customs and practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These risks may be enhanced by recent scrutiny of electronic trading and market structure from regulators, lawmakers and the financial news media.. In addition, we maintain borrowing facilities with banks, prime brokers and Futures Commission Merchants (\"FCMs\"), and we obtain uncommitted margin financing from our prime brokers and FCMs, which are in many cases affiliated with banks. In response to the financial crisis, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued a new, more stringent capital and liquidity framework known as Basel III, which national banking regulators are in the process of implementing in the various jurisdictions in which our lenders may be incorporated. As these rules are implemented and impose more stringent capital and liquidity requirements, certain of our lenders may revise the terms of our borrowing facilities or margin financing arrangements, reduce the amount of financing they provide, or cease providing us financing, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Non - compliance with applicable laws or regulatory requirements could negatively impact our reputation, prospects, revenues and earnings.. Our subsidiaries are subject to regulations in the U.S., and our foreign subsidiaries are subject to regulations abroad, in each case covering all aspects of their business. Regulatory bodies that exercise or may exercise authority over us include, without limitation, in the U.S., the SEC, FINRA, the Chicago Stock Exchange, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the Intercontinental Exchange, the CFTC, the NFA and the various state securities regulators; in Ireland, the Central Bank of Ireland; in Switzerland, the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority; in France, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (\"AMF\"); in the United Kingdom, the FCA; in Hong Kong, the SFC; in Australia, the Australian Securities and Investment Commission; in Canada, the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada and various Canadian provincial securities commissions; in Singapore, the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange; and in Japan, the Financial Services Agency and the Japan Securities Dealers Association. Our mode of operation and profitability may be directly affected by additional legislation and changes in rules promulgated by various domestic and foreign government agencies and SROs that oversee our businesses, as well as by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, including the potential imposition of additional capital and margin requirements and/or transaction taxes. While we endeavor to timely deliver required annual filings in all jurisdictions, we cannot guarantee that we will meet every applicable filing deadline globally. Noncompliance with applicable laws or regulations could result in sanctions being levied against us, including fines, penalties, judgments, disgorgement, restitution and censures, suspension or expulsion from a certain jurisdiction, SRO or market or the revocation or limitation of licenses. Noncompliance with applicable laws or regulations could also negatively impact our reputation, prospects, revenues and earnings. In addition, changes in current laws or regulations or in governmental policies could negatively impact our operations, revenues and earnings.. Domestic and foreign stock exchanges, other SROs and state and foreign securities commissions can censure, fine, impose undertakings, issue cease - and - desist orders and suspend or expel a broker - dealer or other market participant or any of its officers or employees. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our internal systems to ensure compliance, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. We could be subject to disciplinary or other actions in the future due to claimed noncompliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have been, are currently, and may in the future be, the subject of one or more regulatory or SRO enforcement actions, including but not limited to targeted and routine regulatory inquiries and investigations involving Regulation NMS, Regulation SHO, market access. 21. Table of Contents. rules, capital requirements and other domestic and foreign securities rules and regulations. We and other broker - dealers and trading firms have also been the subject of requests for information and documents from the SEC and other regulators. We have cooperated and complied with these requests for information and documents. Our business or reputation could be negatively impacted if it were determined that disciplinary or other enforcement actions were required. Additionally, in December 2015, the enforcement committee of the AMF fined our European subsidiary in the amount of \2005.0 million (approximately $5.4 million) based on its conclusion that the subsidiary engaged in price manipulation and violations of the AMF General Regulation and Euronext Market Rules. In May 2017, the fine was reduced to \2003.0 million (approximately $3.5 million), subject to an incremental charge of \2000.3 (approximately $0.4 million). The relevant trading activities were conducted on or around 2009, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary from Madison Tyler Holdings, which acquisition was consummated in 2011.  To continue to operate and to expand our services internationally, we will have to comply with the regulatory controls of each country in which we conduct or intend to conduct business, the requirements of which may not be clearly defined. The varying compliance requirements of these different regulatory jurisdictions, which are often unclear, may limit our ability to continue existing international operations and further expand internationally.. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory capital requirements could subject us to sanctions imposed by the SEC, FINRA and other SROs or regulatory bodies.. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital rules of the SEC, FINRA, other SROs and foreign regulators. These rules, which specify minimum capital requirements for our regulated subsidiaries, are designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of a broker - dealer and require that at least a minimum part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. In general, net capital is defined as net worth (assets minus liabilities), plus qualifying subordinated borrowings, less certain mandatory deductions that result from, among other things, excluding assets that are not readily convertible into cash and from valuing conservatively certain other assets. Among these deductions are adjustments, commonly called haircuts, which reflect the possibility of a decline in the market value of an asset before disposition, and non - allowable assets.. Failure to maintain the required minimum capital may subject our regulated subsidiaries to a fine, requirement to cease conducting business, suspension, revocation of registration or expulsion by the applicable regulatory authorities, reputational harm and ultimately could require the relevant entity's liquidation. Events relating to capital adequacy could give rise to regulatory actions that could limit business expansion or require business reduction. SEC and SRO net capital rules prohibit payments of dividends, redemptions of stock, prepayments of subordinated indebtedness and the making of any unsecured advances or loans to a stockholder, employee or affiliate, in certain circumstances, including if such payment would reduce the firm's net capital below required levels. Similar issues and risks arise in connection with the capital adequacy requirements of foreign regulators.. A change in the net capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charges against net capital could limit our operations that require the intensive use of capital and also could restrict our ability to withdraw capital from our broker - dealer subsidiaries. A significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against net capital could negatively impact our ability to expand or even maintain our present levels of business. Similar issues and risks arise in connection with the capital adequacy requirements of foreign regulators. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to risks relating to litigation and potential securities law liability.. We are exposed to substantial risks of liability under federal and state securities laws and other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the CFTC, state securities regulators, SROs and foreign regulatory agencies. These risks may be enhanced by recent scrutiny of electronic trading and market structure from regulators, lawmakers and the financial news media. We are also subject to the risk of litigation and claims that may be without merit. At present and from time to time, we, our past and present officers, directors and employees are and may be named in legal actions, regulatory investigations and proceedings, arbitrations and administrative claims and may be subject to claims alleging the violations of laws, rules and regulations, some of which may ultimately result in the payment of fines, awards, judgments and settlements. We could incur significant legal expenses in defending ourselves against and resolving lawsuits or claims even if we believe them to be meritless. An adverse resolution of any current or future lawsuits or claims against us could result in a negative perception of our. 22. Table of Contents. Company and cause the market price of our common stock to decline or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Proposed legislation in the European Union, the U.S. and other jurisdictions that would impose taxes on certain financial transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. On September 28, 2011, the former president of the European Commission officially presented a plan to create a new financial transactions tax which in February 2013 was formally presented for consideration by the European Commission under an enhanced cooperation procedure among 11 European Union Member States (Belgium, Germany, Estonia, Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Austria, Portugal, Slovenia and Slovakia) for the purposes of a financial transaction tax among those Member States (the \"EU Financial Transaction Tax\").  The EU Financial Transaction Tax was initially intended to be implemented within those 11 European Union Member States in January 2014. As of December 31, 2017 such tax has not yet been implemented within the European Union and no final political or legislative proposal has been presented for consideration. In 2016, Estonia, of the original members withdrew its support for the proposal. Similarly, in 2013, U.S. Representative Peter DeFazio and former Senator Thomas Harkin introduced proposed legislation, a bill entitled the \"Wall Street Trading and Speculators Tax Act,\" which would have, subject to certain exceptions, imposed an excise tax on the purchase of a security, including equities, bonds, debentures, other debt and interests in derivative financial instruments, if the purchase occurred or was cleared on a trading facility in the U.S. and the purchaser or seller is a U.S. person. More recently, U.S. Representative Chris Van Hollen presented an \"action plan\" that included a financial transaction fee. These proposed transaction taxes would apply to certain aspects of our business and transactions in which we are involved. Any such tax would increase our cost of doing business to the extent that (i) the tax is regularly applicable to transactions in the markets in which we operate, (ii) the tax does not include exceptions for market makers or market making activities that is broad enough to cover our activities or (iii) we are unable to widen our bid/ask spreads in the markets in which such a tax would be applicable to compensate for its imposition. Furthermore, the proposed taxes may reduce or negatively impact trading volume and transactions on which we are dependent for revenues. While it is difficult to assess the impact the proposed taxes could have on us, if either transaction tax is implemented or any similar tax is implemented in any other jurisdiction in which we operate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could suffer a material adverse effect, and could be impacted to a greater degree than other market participants.. We depend on our technology, and our future results may be negatively impacted if we cannot remain technologically competitive.. We believe that our success in the past has largely been attributable to our technology, which has taken many years to develop. If technology equivalent to ours becomes more widely available for any reason, our operating results may be negatively impacted. Additionally, adoption or development of similar or more advanced technologies by our competitors may require that we devote substantial resources to the development of more advanced technology to remain competitive. Regulators and exchanges may also introduce risk control and other technological requirements on our business that could result in increased costs of compliance and divert our technological resources away from their primary strategy development and maintenance duties. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing trading systems, practices and techniques. The widespread adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. We may not be able to anticipate or respond adequately or in a cost - efficient and competitive manner to technological advancements (including advancements related to low - latency technologies, execution and messaging speeds) or changing industry standards. If any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our reliance on our computer systems and software could expose us to material financial and reputational harm if any of our computer systems or software were subject to any material disruption or corruption.. We rely significantly on our computer systems and software to receive and properly process internal and external data and utilize such data to generate orders and other messages. A disruption or corruption of the proper functioning of our computer systems or software could cause us to make erroneous trades, which could result in material losses or reputational harm. We cannot guarantee that our efforts to maintain competitive computer systems and software will be successful. Our computer systems and software may fail or be subject to bugs or other errors, resulting in service. 23. Table of Contents. interruptions or other unintended consequences. If any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We could be the target of a significant cyber-attack, threat or incident that impairs internal systems, results in adverse consequences to information our system process, store or transmit or causes reputation damages as a consequence.. Our business relies on technology and automation to perform significant functions within our firm.  Because of our reliance on technology, we may be susceptible to various forms of cyber-attacks by third parties or insiders. Though we take steps to mitigate the various cyber threats and devote significant resources to maintain and update our systems and networks, we may be unable to anticipate attacks or to implement adequate preventative measures. Our cybersecurity measures may not detect or prevent all attempts to compromise our systems, including denial - of - service attacks, viruses, malicious software, break - ins, phishing attacks, social engineering, security breaches or other attacks and similar disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted by our systems or that we otherwise maintain. Although we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. Breaches of our cybersecurity measures could result in any of the following: unauthorized access to our systems; unauthorized access to and misappropriation of information or data, including confidential or proprietary information about ourselves, third parties with whom we do business or our proprietary systems; viruses, worms, spyware or other malware being placed in our systems and intellectual property; deletion or modification of client information; or a denial - of - service or other interruptions to our business operations. While we have not suffered a material breach of our cybersecurity, any actual or perceived breach of our cybersecurity could damage our reputation, expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, require us to expend significant capital and other resources to alleviate problems caused by such breaches and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Capacity constraints, systems failures, malfunctions and delays could harm our business.. Our business activities are heavily dependent on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, software bugs and errors, electronic and physical security breaches, natural disasters, power loss, utility or internet outages, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorism and other similar events. Extraordinary trading volumes or other events could cause our computer systems to operate in ways that we did not intend, at an unacceptably low speed or even fail. While we have invested significant amounts of capital to upgrade the capacity, reliability and scalability of our systems, there can be no assurance that our systems will always operate properly or be sufficient to handle such extraordinary trading volumes. Any disruption for any reason in the proper functioning or any corruption of our software or erroneous or corrupted data may cause us to make erroneous trades or suspend our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Although our systems and infrastructure are generally designed to accommodate additional growth without redesign or replacement, we may need to make significant investments in additional hardware and software to accommodate growth. Failure to make necessary expansions and upgrades to our systems and infrastructure could not only limit our growth and business prospects but could also cause substantial losses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Since the timing and impact of disasters and disruptions are unpredictable, we may not be able to respond to actual events as they occur. Business disruptions can vary in their scope and significance and can affect one or more of our facilities. Further, the severity of the disruption can also vary from minimal to severe. Although we have employed efforts to develop, implement and maintain reasonable disaster recovery and business continuity plans, we cannot guarantee that our systems will fully recover after a significant business disruption in a timely fashion or at all. If we are prevented from using any of our current trading operations, or if our business continuity operations do not work effectively, we may not have complete business continuity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 24. Table of Contents. Failure or poor performance of third - party software, infrastructure or systems on which we rely could adversely affect our business.. We depend on third parties to provide and maintain certain infrastructure that is critical to our business. For example, we rely on third parties to provide software, data center services and dedicated fiber optic, microwave, wireline and wireless communication infrastructure. This infrastructure may malfunction or fail due to events outside of our control, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any failure to maintain and renew our relationships with these third parties on commercially favorable terms, or to enter into similar relationships in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We also rely on certain third - party software, third - party computer systems and third - party service providers, including clearing systems, exchange systems, alternate trading systems, order routing systems, internet service providers, communications facilities and other facilities. Any interruption in these third - party services or software, deterioration in their performance, or other improper operation could interfere with our trading activities, cause losses due to erroneous or delayed responses, or otherwise be disruptive to our business. If our arrangements with any third party are terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative source of software or systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. This could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The use of open source software may expose us to additional risks.. We use software development tools covered by open source licenses and may incorporate such open source software into our proprietary software from time to time. \"Open source software\" refers to any code, shareware or other software that is made generally available to the public without requiring payment of fees or royalties and/or that may require disclosure or licensing of any software that incorporates such source code, shareware or other software. Given the nature of open source software, third parties might assert contractual or copyright and other intellectual property - related claims against us based on our use of such tools and software programs or might seek to compel the disclosure of the source code of our software or other proprietary information. If any such claims materialize, we could be required to (i) seek licenses from third parties in order to continue to use such tools and software or to continue to operate certain elements of our technology, (ii) release certain proprietary software code comprising our modifications to such open source software, (iii) make our software available under the terms of an open source license, (iv) re - engineer all, or a portion of, that software, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or (v) be required to pay significant damages as a result of substantiated unauthorized use. While we monitor the use of all open source software in our solutions, processes and technology and try to ensure that no open source software is used (i) in such a way as to require us to disclose the source code to the related solution when we do not wish to do so nor (ii) in connection with critical or fundamental elements of our software or technology, such use may have inadvertently occurred in deploying our proprietary solutions. If a third - party software provider has incorporated certain types of open source software into software we license from such third party for our products and solutions, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to disclose the source code to our solutions. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open software can lead to greater risks than use of third - party commercial software because open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated and could potentially have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or may be prevented from using intellectual property necessary for our business.. We rely on federal and state law, trade secrets, trademarks, domain names, copyrights and contract law to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property or proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. For example, while we have a policy of entering into confidentiality, intellectual property invention assignment and/or non - competition and non - solicitation agreements or restrictions with our employees, independent contractors and business partners, such agreements may not provide adequate protection or may be breached, or our proprietary technology may otherwise become available to or be independently developed by our competitors.  The promulgation of. 25. Table of Contents. laws or rules which require the maintenance of source code or other intellectual property in a repository subject to certain requirements and/or which enhance or facilitate access to such source code by regulatory authorities could inhibit our ability to protect against unauthorized dissemination or use of our intellectual property.  Third parties have alleged and may in the future allege that we are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating their intellectual property rights. Third parties may initiate litigation against us without warning, or may send us letters or other communications that make allegations without initiating litigation. We may elect not to respond to these letters or other communications if we believe they are without merit, or we may attempt to resolve these disputes out of court by negotiating a license, but in either case it is possible that such disputes will ultimately result in litigation. Any such claims could interfere with our ability to use technology or intellectual property that is material to the operation of our business. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to obtain a competitive advantage or by other parties, such as entities that purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of bringing infringement claims. We also periodically employ individuals who were previously employed by our competitors or potential competitors, and we may therefore be subject to claims that such employees have used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers.. At times we rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and the attention of management. If unsuccessful, such litigation could result in the loss of important intellectual property rights, require us to pay substantial damages, subject us to injunctions that prevent us from using certain intellectual property, require us to make admissions that affect our reputation in the marketplace and require us to enter into license agreements that may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Finally, even if we prevail in any litigation, the remedy may not be commercially meaningful or fully compensate us for the harm we suffer or the costs we incur. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are exposed to risks associated with our international operations and expansion and failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability.. We are exposed to risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the heavily regulated broker - dealer industry. Such risks and uncertainties include political, economic and financial instability, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, exchange rate fluctuations, applicable currency controls, the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds, limitations on our ability to repatriate non - U.S. earnings in a tax efficient manner and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including reliance on local experts.  Such restrictions generally include those by imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\").  The FCPA is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires companies whose securities are listed in the U.S. to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect those companies' transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls.  OFAC administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals against designated foreign states, organizations and individuals. Though we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable OFAC sanctions, rules and regulations as well as the FCPA and equivalent laws and rules of other jurisdictions, if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm, incarceration of employees and restrictions on our operations and cash flows.. In addition, the varying compliance requirements of these different regulatory jurisdictions and other factors may limit our ability to successfully conduct or expand our business internationally and may increase our costs of investment. Expansion into international locations involves substantial operational and execution risk. We may not be able to manage these costs or risks effectively.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may negatively impact the global economy, financial markets and our business.. In June 2016, the United Kingdom voted in an advisory referendum to leave the European Union (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\"). The outcome of the negotiations between the U.K. and the European Union in connection with. 26. Table of Contents. the referendum and withdrawal is highly uncertain and may significantly affect the fiscal, monetary and regulatory landscape in the U.K., and could have a material impact on its economy and the future growth of its various industries, including the financial services industry, as well as global economic conditions and financial markets.  We presently access the E.U. markets primarily through our Irish regulated subsidiary and we do not expect any impact on our access to E.U. markets as a result of Brexit.  However, it is not possible at this point in time to predict fully the effects of an exit of the U.K. from the E.U., especially with respect to our activities in the U.K. or the potential impact of interacting with U.K. based market participants, and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could negatively impact our earnings.. A significant portion of our international business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar can therefore affect the value of our non - U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Although we closely monitor potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies, and where cost - justified we adopt strategies that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on our financial performance, including the financing of non - U.S. dollar assets with borrowings in the same currency and the use of various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing our foreign exchange risk. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the U.S. increases. Any material fluctuations in currencies could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may experience risks associated with future growth or expansion of our operations or acquisitions, strategic investments or dispositions of businesses, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of such activities.. As a part of our business strategy, we may make acquisitions or significant investments in and/or disposals of businesses. Any such future acquisitions, investments and/or dispositions would be accompanied by risks such as assessment of values for acquired businesses, intangible assets and technologies, difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies or businesses, diversion of our management's attention from ongoing business concerns, our potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation or disposition of operations, maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and the impairment of existing relationships with employees, contractors, suppliers and customers as a result of the integration of new management personnel and cost - saving initiatives. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate any company or business that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our current business.. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transactions, and there may be other unanticipated or unidentified effects. While we would seek protection, for example, through warranties and indemnities in the case of acquisitions, significant liabilities may not be identified in due diligence or come to light after the expiration of warranty or indemnity periods. Additionally, while we would seek to limit our ongoing exposure, for example, through liability caps and period limits on warranties and indemnities in the case of disposals, some warranties and indemnities may give rise to unexpected and significant liabilities. If we fail to realize any such anticipated benefits, or if we experience any such unanticipated or unidentified effects in connection with any future acquisitions, investments or dispositions, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Finally, strategic investments may involve additional risks associated with holding a minority or non-controlling position in an illiquid business or asset.. Our future efforts to sell shares of our common stock or raise additional capital may be delayed or prohibited by regulations.. As certain of our subsidiaries are members of FINRA and other SROs, we are subject to certain regulations regarding changes in ownership or control and material changes in operations. For example, FINRA's NASD Rule 1017 generally provides that FINRA approval must be obtained in connection with certain change of ownership or control transactions, such as a transaction that results in a single entity or person owning 25% or more our equity. Similarly, Virtu Financial Ireland Limited, one of our Irish subsidiaries, is subject to change in control regulations promulgated by the Central Bank of Ireland, and other registered or regulated foreign subsidiaries may be subject to similar regulations in. 27. Table of Contents. applicable jurisdictions. As a result of these regulations, our future efforts to sell shares of our common stock or raise additional capital may be delayed or prohibited. We may be subject to similar restrictions in other jurisdictions in which we operate.. We are dependent on the continued service of certain key executives, the loss or diminished performance of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management, Mr. Cifu, our Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Molluso, our Chief Financial Officer. In connection with and subsequent to the IPO, we have entered into employment and other related agreements with certain members of our senior management team that restrict their ability to compete with us should they decide to leave our Company. Even though we have entered into these agreements, we cannot be sure that any member of our senior management will remain with us or that they will not compete with us in the future. The loss of any member of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy and have a negative impact on our revenues, in addition to potentially causing employee morale problems and/or the loss of key employees. In particular, Mr. Cifu invests in other businesses and spends time on such matters, which could divert their attention from us. Our employment agreement with Mr. Cifu specifically permits his participation in and attention to certain other business activities, including but not necessarily limited to his role as the Vice Chairman and Alternate Governor of the Florida Panthers, a National Hockey League franchise, and his role as a director of the Independent Bank Group, Inc., a regional bank holding company. We cannot guarantee that these or other permitted outside activities will not impact his performance as Chief Executive Officer.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify, recruit and retain skilled management and technical personnel. If we fail to recruit and retain suitable candidates or if our relationship with our employees changes or deteriorates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our future success depends, in part, upon our continued ability to identify, attract, hire and retain highly qualified personnel, including skilled technical, management, product and technology, trading, sales and marketing personnel, all of whom are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. Competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to meet our requirements, or that we will be able to do so at salary, benefit and other compensation costs that are acceptable to us or that would allow us to achieve operating results consistent with our historical results. A loss of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We could lose significant sources of revenues if we were to lose access to an important exchange or other trading venue.. Changes in applicable laws, regulations or rules promulgated by exchanges could conceivably prevent us from providing liquidity to an exchange or other trading venue where we provide liquidity today. Though our revenues are diversified across exchanges and other trading venues, asset classes and geographies, the loss of access to one or more significant exchanges and other trading venues for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to the Acquisition of KCG. Significant costs and significant indebtedness were incurred in connection with the consummation of the Acquisition of KCG, and the integration of KCG into our business, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs.. We expect to incur significant costs in connection with integrating the operations, products and personnel of KCG into our business.  These costs may include:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\temployee retention, redeployment, relocation or severance;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tintegration of information systems;. 28. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcombination of corporate and administrative functions; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential or pending litigation or other proceedings related to the Acquisition of KCG.. The costs related to the Acquisition of KCG could be higher than currently estimated, depending on how difficult it will be to integrate our business with that of KCG, and the expected cost reductions and synergies may not be achieved.. In addition, we expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of KCG with ours, which cannot be estimated accurately at this time.  While we expected to and incurred a significant amount of transaction fees and other costs related to the consummation of the Acquisition of KCG, additional unanticipated costs may yet be incurred.  Any expected elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the expected realization of other cost reductions, efficiencies and synergies related to the integration of our operations with those of KCG, that may offset incremental transaction and transaction-related costs over time, may not be achieved as projected, or at all.. In addition, we incurred $1,650.0 million of new indebtedness in connection with the Acquisition of KCG, $526 million of which we have prepaid as of March 13, 2018.  The debt we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition of KCG may limit our financial and operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt, which could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.  Our substantial indebtedness may have material consequences for our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Integrating KCG's business into our business may divert management's attention away from operations, and we may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the two businesses.. The Acquisition of KCG involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently.  The success of the Acquisition of KCG and their anticipated financial and operational benefits, including increased revenues, synergies and cost reductions, will depend in part on our ability to successfully combine and integrate KCG's business into ours, and there can be no assurance regarding when or the extent to which we will be able to realize these increased revenues, synergies, cost reductions or other benefits.  These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.. Successful integration of KCG's operations, products and personnel may place a significant burden on management and other internal resources. The diversion of management's attention, and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process, could harm our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, and competitive responses.  The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in achieving anticipated cost reductions, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combination;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in the integration of operations and systems;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the two companies;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in the assimilation of employees and the integration of the companies' different organizational structures;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in managing the expanded operations of a larger and more complex company with increased international operations;. 29. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges in integrating the business culture of each company;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in replacing numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll, data privacy and security and regulatory compliance, many of which may be dissimilar.. These factors could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. We may not realize the anticipated synergies, net cost reductions and growth opportunities from the Acquisition of KCG.. The benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of the Acquisition of KCG will depend, in part, on the ability of the combined company to realize anticipated growth opportunities, net cost reductions and synergies.  Our success in realizing these growth opportunities, net cost reductions and synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our historical business and operations and the historical business and operations of KCG.  Even if we are able to integrate the businesses and operations of the Company and KCG successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities, net cost reductions and synergies that we currently expect from this integration within the anticipated time frame or at all.  For example, we may be unable to eliminate duplicative costs.  Moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of our business and KCG's business.  While we anticipate that certain expenses will be incurred, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately and may exceed current estimates.  Accordingly, the benefits from the Acquisition of KCG may be offset by costs or delays incurred in integrating the businesses.  We projected net cost reductions and synergies are based on a number of assumptions relating to our business and KCG's business.  Those assumptions may be inaccurate, and, as a result, our projected net cost reductions and synergies may be inaccurate, and our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. The Company will be subject to business uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business.. Uncertainty about the effect of the Acquisition of KCG on employees, customers and suppliers may have both a material and adverse effect on the Company.  These uncertainties may impair the Companies' ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel, and could cause customers, suppliers and others who deal with the Company to seek to end, suspend or change existing business relationships.  If key employees depart because of issues related to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us, or if customers, suppliers or others seek to end, suspend or change their dealings with us as a result of the Acquisition of KCG, our business could be materially and adversely impacted.. In connection with the Acquisition of KCG, we have assumed potential liabilities relating to KCG's business.. In connection with the Acquisition of KCG, we have assumed potential regulatory, litigation and other liabilities relating to KCG's business.  For example, KCG is currently the subject of various regulatory reviews and investigations by federal, state and foreign regulators and SROs, including the SEC, FINRA and the FCA. In some instances, these matters may rise to a disciplinary action and/or a civil or administrative action, penalties, fines, judgments, censures and settlements. To the extent we have not identified such liabilities or miscalculated their potential financial impact, these liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. 30. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. We are a holding company and our principal asset is our 48.3% of equity interest in Virtu Financial, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Virtu Financial to pay dividends, if any, taxes and other expenses.. We are a holding company and our principal asset is our direct and indirect ownership of 48.3% of the Virtu Financial Units as of December 31, 2017. We have no independent means of generating revenue. As the sole managing member of Virtu Financial, we cause Virtu Financial to make distributions to its equityholders, including the Founder Post-IPO Member, Virtu Employee Holdco, certain current and former members of management of the Company and their affiliates (the \"Management Members\") and us, in amounts sufficient to fund dividends to our stockholders in accordance with our dividend policy and, as further described below, to cover all applicable taxes payable by us and any payments we are obligated to make under the tax receivable agreements we entered into as part of the Reorganization Transactions, but we are limited in our ability to cause Virtu Financial to make these and other distributions to us (including for purposes of paying corporate and other overhead expenses and dividends) under our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement governing our term loan facility (the \"Term Loan Facility\"), and the indenture pursuant to which we have issued senior secured second lien notes (the \"Notes\"). In addition, certain laws and regulations may result in restrictions on Virtu Financial's ability to make distributions to its equityholders (including us), or the ability of its subsidiaries to make distributions to it. These include:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe SEC Net Capital Rule (Rule 15c3 - 1), which requires each of Virtu Financial's registered broker - dealer subsidiaries to maintain specified levels of net capital;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFINRA Rule 4110, which imposes a requirement of prior FINRA approval for any distribution by Virtu Financial's FINRA member registered broker - dealer subsidiary in excess of 10% of its excess net capital; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe requirement for prior approval from the Central Bank of Ireland before Virtu Financial's regulated Irish subsidiary completes any distribution or dividend.. To the extent that we need funds and Virtu Financial is restricted from making such distributions to us, under applicable law or regulation, as a result of covenants in our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the indenture governing our Notes or otherwise, we may not be able to obtain such funds on terms acceptable to us or at all and as a result could suffer a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.. Under the Third Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Virtu Financial (as amended, the \"Amended and Restated Virtu Financial LLC Agreement\"), Virtu Financial from time to time makes pro rata distributions in cash to its equityholders, including the Founder Post - IPO Member, the trust that holds equity interests in Virtu Financial on behalf of certain employees of ours based outside the United States, which we refer to as the \"Employee Trust\", Virtu Employee Holdco and us, in amounts sufficient to cover the taxes on their allocable share of the taxable income of Virtu Financial. As a result of (i) potential differences in the amount of net taxable income allocable to us and to Virtu Financial's other equityholders, (ii) the lower tax rate applicable to corporations than individuals and (iii) the favorable tax benefits that we anticipate from (a) the exchange of Virtu Financial Units and corresponding shares of Class C common stock or Class D common stock, (b) payments under the tax receivable agreements and (c) future deductions attributable to the prior acquisition of interests in Virtu Financial by certain affiliates of Silver Lake Partners and Temasek, we expect that these tax distributions will be in amounts that exceed our tax liabilities. Our board of directors will determine the appropriate uses for any excess cash so accumulated, which may include, among other uses, the payment of obligations under the tax receivable agreements, the payment of other expenses or the repurchase of shares of common stock or Virtu Financial Units. We will have no obligation to distribute such cash (or other available cash) to our shareholders. No adjustments to the exchange ratio for Virtu Financial Units and corresponding shares of common stock will be made as a result of any cash distribution by us or any retention of cash by us, and in any event the ratio will remain one - to - one.. 31. Table of Contents. We are controlled by the Founder Post - IPO Member, whose interests in our business may be different than yours, and certain statutory provisions afforded to stockholders are not applicable to us.. The Founder Post - IPO Member controls approximately 88% of the combined voting power of our common stock as a result of its ownership of our Class D common stock, each share of which is entitled to 10 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders.. The Founder Post - IPO Member has the ability to substantially control our Company, including the ability to control any action requiring the general approval of our stockholders, including the election of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by - laws and the approval of any merger or sale of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership and voting power may also delay, defer or even prevent an acquisition by a third party or other change of control of our Company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of the Founder Post - IPO Member, even if such events are in the best interests of minority stockholders. This concentration of voting power with the Founder Post - IPO Member may have a negative impact on the price of our Class A common stock. In addition, because shares of our Class B common stock and Class D common stock each have 10 votes per share on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, the Founder Post - IPO Member is able to control our Company as long as it owns at least 25% of our issued and outstanding common stock.. The Founder Post-IPO Member's interests may not be fully aligned with yours, which could lead to actions that are not in your best interest. Because the Founder Post-IPO Member holds part of its economic interest in our business through Virtu Financial, rather than through the public company, it may have conflicting interests with holders of shares of our Class A common stock. For example, the Founder Post-IPO Member may have a different tax position from us, which could influence its decisions regarding whether and when we should dispose of assets or incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreements that we entered into in connection with the IPO, and whether and when we should undergo certain changes of control within the meaning of the tax receivable agreements or terminate the tax receivable agreements. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. See \"Item 1A. Risk Factors  -  Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure  -  We are required to pay the Virtu Post IPO Members and the Investor Post IPO Stockholders for certain tax benefits we may claim, and the amounts we may pay could be significant.\" In addition, pursuant to an exchange agreement, the holders of Virtu Financial Units and shares of our Class C common stock or Class D common stock are not required to participate in a proposed sale of our Company that is tax - free for our stockholders unless the transaction is also tax - free for such holders of Virtu Financial Units and shares of our Class C common stock or Class D common stock. This requirement could limit structural alternatives available to us in any such proposed transaction and could have the effect of discouraging transactions that might benefit you as a holder of shares of our Class A common stock.  In addition, the Founder Post-IPO Member's significant ownership in us and resulting ability to effectively control us may discourage someone from making a significant equity investment in us, or could discourage transactions involving a change in control, including transactions in which you as a holder of shares of our Class A common stock might otherwise receive a premium for your shares over the then - current market price.. We have opted out of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the \"Delaware General Corporation Law\"), which prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination transaction with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the interested stockholder became such unless the transaction fits within an applicable exemption, such as board approval of the business combination or the transaction which resulted in such stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. Therefore, the Founder Post - IPO Member is able to transfer control of us to a third party by transferring its shares of our common stock (subject to certain restrictions and limitations), which would not require the approval of our board of directors or our other stockholders.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the doctrine of \"corporate opportunity\" does not apply against the Founder Post-IPO Member, Mr. Viola, Temasek, any of our non - employee directors or any of their respective affiliates in a manner that would prohibit them from investing in competing businesses or doing business with our clients or customers. In addition, subject to the restrictions on competitive activities described below, Mr. Cifu is permitted to become engaged in, or provide services to, any other business or activity in which Mr. Viola is currently engaged or permitted to become engaged, to the extent that Mr. Cifu's level of participation in such businesses or activities is consistent with his current participation in such. 32. Table of Contents. businesses and activities. The Amended and Restated Virtu Financial LLC Agreement provides that Mr. Viola, in addition to our other executive officers and our employees that are Virtu Post-IPO Members, including Mr. Cifu, may not directly or indirectly engage in certain competitive activities until the third anniversary of the date on which such person ceases to be an officer, director or employee of ours. Temasek and our non - employee directors are not subject to any such restriction. To the extent that the Founder Post-IPO Member, Mr. Viola, Temasek, our non - employee directors or any of their respective affiliates invests in other businesses, they may have differing interests than our other stockholders. Messrs. Viola and Cifu also have business relationships outside of our business.. We may be unable to remain in compliance with the financial maintenance and other covenants contained in our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the indenture governing our Notes and our obligation to comply with these covenants may adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. The covenants in our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and indenture governing our Notes may negatively impact our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the indenture governing our Notes requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and tests, including interest coverage and total leverage ratios, which may require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the indenture governing our Notes also restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, dispose of assets, guarantee debt obligations, repay other indebtedness, pay dividends, pledge assets, make investments, including in certain of our operating subsidiaries, make acquisitions or consummate mergers or consolidations and engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates.. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and indenture governing our Notes could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. Our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with the covenants in our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement or indenture governing our Notes or to remedy such a default. In addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to refinance our indebtedness or to make any accelerated payments. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, we would not be able to guarantee that the new financing would be on commercially reasonable terms. If we default on our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operation could suffer a material adverse effect.. 33. Table of Contents. Our reported financial results depend on management's selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates.. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows.  Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods to comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from multiple alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet each may result in the reporting of materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results.  They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain.  Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates.  If such estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses.. Additionally, from time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements.  These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Changes in these standards are continuously occurring, and given the current economic environment, more drastic changes may occur. The implementation of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements since we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules, and as a result our stockholders do not have the protections afforded by these corporate governance requirements.. The Founder Post - IPO Member controls more than 50% of our combined voting power. As a result, we are considered a \"controlled company\" for purposes of the NASDAQ rules and corporate governance standards, and therefore we are permitted and have elected not to, comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including those that would otherwise require our board of directors to have a majority of independent directors and require that we either establish a Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees, each comprised entirely of independent directors, or otherwise ensure that the compensation of our executive officers and nominees for directors are determined or recommended to the board of directors by the independent members of the board of directors. Accordingly, holders of our Class A common stock do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ rules and corporate governance standards, and the ability of our independent directors to influence our business policies and affairs may be reduced.. We are required to pay the Virtu Post - IPO Members and the Investor Post - IPO Stockholders for certain tax benefits we may claim, and the amounts we may pay could be significant.. In connection with the Reorganization Transactions, we acquired equity interests in Virtu Financial from an affiliate of Silver Lake Partners (which, following a secondary offering completed in November 2015 (the \"November 2015 Secondary Offering\"), no longer holds any equity interest in us) and the an affiliate of the Temasek Pre-IPO Member in the Mergers. In addition, we used a portion of the net proceeds from our IPO and our Secondary Offerings (as defined below) to purchase Virtu Financial Units and corresponding shares of Class C common stock from certain Virtu Post-IPO Members, including  affiliates of the Silver Lake Partners (the \"Silver Lake Post-IPO Members\"), and certain employees. These acquisitions of interests in Virtu Financial, along with certain subsequent exchanges of interests in Virtu Financial by current and former employees, resulted in tax basis adjustments to the assets of Virtu Financial that were allocated to us and our subsidiaries. Future acquisitions of interests in Virtu Financial are expected to produce favorable tax attributes. In addition, future exchanges by the Virtu Post-IPO Members of Virtu Financial Units and corresponding shares of Class C common stock or Class D common stock, as the case may be, for shares of our Class A common stock or Class B common stock, respectively, are expected to produce favorable tax attributes. These tax attributes would not be available to us in the absence of such transactions. Both the existing and anticipated tax basis adjustments are expected to reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future.. 34. Table of Contents. We entered into three tax receivable agreements with the Virtu Post-IPO Members and the Investor Post-IPO Stockholders (one with the Founder Post-IPO Member, the Employee Trust, Virtu Employee Holdco and other post IPO investors, other than affiliates of Silver Lake Partners and affiliates of Temasek, another with the Investor Post-IPO Stockholders and the other with the Silver Lake Post-IPO Members) that provide for the payment by us to the Virtu Post-IPO Members and the Investor Post-IPO Stockholders (or their transferees of Virtu Financial Units or other assignees) of 85% of the amount of actual cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of (i) any increase in tax basis in Virtu Financial's assets resulting from (a) the acquisition of equity interests in Virtu Financial from an affiliates of Silver Lake Partners and Temasek, and the Temasek Pre-IPO Member in the Reorganization Transactions (which represents the unamortized portion of the increase in tax basis in Virtu Financial's assets resulting from a prior acquisition of interests in Virtu Financial by an affiliates of Silver Lake Partners and Temasek, and the Temasek Pre-IPO Member), (b) the purchases of Virtu Financial Units (along with the corresponding shares of our Class C common stock or Class D common stock, as applicable) from certain of the Virtu Post-IPO Members using a portion of the net proceeds from the IPO or in any future offering, (c) exchanges by the Virtu Post-IPO Members of Virtu Financial Units (along with the corresponding shares of our Class C common stock or Class D common stock, as applicable) for shares of our Class A common stock or Class B common stock, as applicable, or (d) payments under the tax receivable agreements, (ii) any net operating losses available to us as a result of the Mergers and (iii) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed arising as a result of payments made under the tax receivable agreements.. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under these tax receivable agreements, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges by the Virtu Post - IPO Members, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future and the tax rate then applicable and the portion of our payments under the tax receivable agreements constituting imputed interest.. The payments we are required to make under the tax receivable agreements, which represent 85% of the amount of actual cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize, could be substantial. We expect that, as a result of the amount of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Virtu Financial, assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize in full the potential tax benefits described above, future payments to the Virtu Post - IPO Members and the Investor Post - IPO Stockholders in respect of the purchases, the exchanges and the Mergers in connection with the IPO, and the purchases and exchanges completed in connection with our subsequent public offering will aggregate to approximately $147.0 million and range from approximately $0.3 million to $12.8 million per year over the next 15 years. Future payments under the tax receivable agreements in respect of subsequent exchanges would be in addition to these amounts. The payments under the tax receivable agreements are not conditioned upon the Virtu Post - IPO Members' or the Investor Post - IPO Stockholders' continued ownership of us.. In addition, although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") to challenge the tax basis increases or other benefits arising under the tax receivable agreements, the Virtu Post - IPO Members and the Investor Post - IPO Stockholders (or their transferees or other assignees) will not reimburse us for any payments previously made if such tax basis increases or other tax benefits are subsequently disallowed, except that any excess payments made to the Virtu Post - IPO Members and the Investor Post - IPO Stockholders will be netted against future payments otherwise to be made under the tax receivable agreements, if any, after our determination of such excess. As a result, in such circumstances we could make payments to the Virtu Post - IPO Members and the Investor Post - IPO Stockholders under the tax receivable agreements that are greater than our actual cash tax savings and may not be able to recoup those payments, which could negatively impact our liquidity.. In addition, the tax receivable agreements provide that, upon certain mergers, asset sales or other forms of business combination, or certain other changes of control, our or our successor's obligations with respect to tax benefits would be based on certain assumptions, including that we or our successor would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits covered by the tax receivable agreements. As a result, upon a change of control, we could be required to make payments under a tax receivable agreement that are greater than the specified percentage of our actual cash tax savings, which could negatively impact our liquidity.. In addition, the tax receivable agreements provide that in the case of a change in control of the Company, the Virtu Post - IPO Members and the Investor Post - IPO Stockholders have the option to terminate the applicable tax. 35. Table of Contents. receivable agreement, and we are required to make a payment to such electing party in an amount equal to the present value of future payments (calculated using a discount rate equal to the lesser of 6.5% or LIBOR plus 100 basis points, which may differ from our, or a potential acquirer's, then - current cost of capital) under the tax receivable agreement, which payment would be based on certain assumptions, including those relating to our future taxable income. In these situations, our obligations under the tax receivable agreements could have a substantial negative impact on our, or a potential acquirer's, liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring, modifying or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. These provisions of the tax receivable agreements may result in situations where the Virtu Post - IPO Members and the Investor Post - IPO Stockholders have interests that differ from or are in addition to those of our other shareholders. In addition, we could be required to make payments under the tax receivable agreements that are substantial and in excess of our, or a potential acquirer's, actual cash savings in income tax.. Finally, because we are a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to make payments under the tax receivable agreements are dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us. Our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement restricts the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which could affect our ability to make payments under the tax receivable agreements. To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the tax receivable agreements for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows and could also affect our liquidity in periods in which such payments are made.. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock. Substantial future sales of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 89,798,609 shares of Class A common stock outstanding, excluding 14,540,911 shares of Class A common stock issuable pursuant to the 2015 Management Incentive Plan and 97,490,729 shares of Class A common stock issuable upon potential exchanges and/or conversions. Of these shares, the 29,404,003 shares sold in the IPO and the Secondary Offerings are freely tradable without further restriction under the Securities Act. The remaining 158,738,382 shares of Class A common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2017 (including shares issuable upon exchange and/or conversion) are \"restricted securities,\" as that term is defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. The holders of these remaining 158,738,382 shares of our Class A common stock, including shares issuable upon exchange or conversion as described above, are entitled to dispose of their shares pursuant to (i) the applicable holding period, volume and other restrictions of Rule 144 or (ii) another exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Additional sales of a substantial number of our shares of Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock.. We have filed a registration statement under the Securities Act registering 16,000,000 shares of our Class A common stock reserved for issuance under our 2015 Amended and Restated Management Incentive Plan, 14,540,911 of which are issuable, and we entered into the Registration Rights Agreement pursuant to which we granted demand and piggyback registration rights to the Founder Post-IPO Member, Temasek, the North Island Stockholder and piggyback registration rights to certain of the other Virtu Post-IPO Members.. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and stock price.. Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have begun to develop and implement a plan to test our internal controls over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Sarbanes-Oxley\") and the related rules of the SEC, which require, among other things, our management to assess annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and, if we are no longer an emerging growth company under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the \"JOBS Act\"), our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting with our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The internal control assessment required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley may divert internal resources. 36. Table of Contents. and we may experience higher operating expenses, higher independent auditor and consulting fees during the implementation of these changes.  During the course of this documentation and testing, we may identify deficiencies that we are unable to remediate before the reporting date. Any material weaknesses or any failure to implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our Class A common stock could drop significantly. Failure to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, FINRA or other regulatory authorities, as well as increasing the risk of liability arising from litigation based on securities law.. We intend to pay regular dividends to our stockholders, but our ability to do so may be limited by our holding company structure, contractual restrictions and regulatory requirements.. We intend to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis. See Item 5, \"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.\" However, we are a holding company, with our principal asset being our direct and indirect equity interests in Virtu Financial, and we will have no independent means of generating revenue. Accordingly, as the sole managing member of Virtu Financial, we intend to cause, and will rely on, Virtu Financial to make distributions to its equityholders, including the Founder Post-IPO Member, the Employee Trust, Virtu Employee Holdco and us, to fund our dividends. When Virtu Financial makes such distributions, the other equityholders of Virtu Financial will be entitled to receive equivalent distributions pro rata based on their economic interests in Virtu Financial. In order for Virtu Financial to make distributions, it may need to receive distributions from its subsidiaries. Certain of these subsidiaries are or may in the future be subject to regulatory capital requirements that limit the size or frequency of distributions. See \"Item 1A. Risk Factors  -  Risks Related to Our Business  -  Failure to comply with applicable regulatory capital requirements could subject us to sanctions imposed by the SEC, FINRA and other SROs or regulatory bodies.\" If Virtu Financial is unable to cause these subsidiaries to make distributions, we may not receive adequate distributions from Virtu Financial in order to fund our dividends.. Our board of directors will periodically review the cash generated from our business and the capital expenditures required to finance our global growth plans and determine whether to modify the amount of regular dividends and/or declare periodic special dividends to our stockholders. Our board of directors will take into account general economic and business conditions, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, including restrictions contained in our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, business prospects and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. There can be no assurance that our board of directors will not reduce the amount of regular cash dividends or cause us to cease paying dividends altogether. In addition, our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the indenture governing our Notes limits the amount of distributions our subsidiaries, including Virtu Financial, can make to us and the purposes for which distributions could be made. Accordingly, we may not be able to pay dividends even if our board of directors would otherwise deem it appropriate. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". Provisions in our charter documents and certain rules imposed by regulatory authorities may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions, which may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that stockholders may consider favorable, include the following, some of which may only become effective when the Founder Post-IPO Member or any of its affiliates or permitted transferees no longer beneficially own shares representing 25% of our issued and outstanding common stock (the \"Triggering Event\"):. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe 10 vote per share feature of our Class B common stock and Class D common stock;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe division of our board of directors into three classes and the election of each class for three-year terms;. 37. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe sole ability of the board of directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadvance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tafter the Triggering Event, provisions limiting stockholders ability to call special meetings of stockholders, to require special meetings of stockholders to be called and to take action by written consent;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tafter the Triggering Event, in certain cases, the approval of holders of at least 75% of the shares entitled to vote generally on the making, alteration, amendment or repeal of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws will be required to adopt, amend or repeal our by-laws, or amend or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tafter the Triggering Event, the required approval of holders of at least 75% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of the directors to remove directors, which removal may only be for cause; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used, among other things, to institute a rights plan that would have the effect of significantly diluting the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors.. These provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws could discourage potential takeover attempts and reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our Class A common stock in the future, which could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock.. In addition, a third party attempting to acquire us or a substantial position in our Class A common stock may be delayed or ultimately prevented from doing so by change in ownership or control regulations to which certain of our regulated subsidiaries are subject. FINRA's NASD Rule 1017 generally provides that FINRA approval must be obtained in connection with any transaction resulting in a single person or entity owning, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of a member firm's equity and would include a change in control of a parent company. Similarly, Virtu Financial Ireland Limited is subject to change in control regulations promulgated by the Central Bank of Ireland. We may also be subject to similar restrictions in other jurisdictions in which we operate. These regulations could discourage potential takeover attempts and reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our Class A common stock in the future, which could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock.. Our stock price may be volatile.. The market price of our Class A common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, variations in our operating results and market conditions specific to our business. Furthermore, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. As such, the price of our Class A common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce the price of our Class A common stock and materially affect the value of your investment.. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company.. We completed the IPO in April 2015, and therefore we have a limited history operating as a public company. As a public company, we incur significant levels of legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a privately-owned company. Sarbanes-Oxley and related rules of the SEC, together with the listing requirements of NASDAQ, impose significant requirements relating to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We have incurred increased costs as a result of compliance with these public company requirements, which require additional resources and make some activities more time consuming than they have been in the past when we were privately owned. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as higher independent auditor and consulting fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter and we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order to continue to satisfy these public company requirements. We are required to expend considerable time and resources complying with public company regulations. In addition, these laws and regulations may. 38. Table of Contents. make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. In addition, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers and may divert management's attention. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our Class A common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action.. Our reliance on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements under the JOBS Act may deter trading in our Class A common stock.. We qualify as an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act. As a result, we are permitted to, and have relied and intend to continue to rely, on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements. For so long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide an auditor attestation and report with respect to management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (i.e., an auditor discussion and analysis); and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubmit certain executive compensation matters to shareholder advisory votes, such as \"say-on-pay\" and \"say-on-frequency,\" and disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the Chief Executive Officer's compensation to median employee compensation.. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected not to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period.. We will remain an \"emerging growth company\" for up to five years, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our total annual gross revenues exceed $1.07 billion, (ii) the date that we become a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), which would occur if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter or (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.07 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period.. Until such time, however, we cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. If securities or industry analysts cease to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us or our business, or publish projections for our business that exceed our actual results, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock may be affected by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our Class A common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. In addition, the analysts' projections may have little or no relationship to the results we actually achieve and could cause our stock price to decline if we fail to meet their projections. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, our stock price or trading volume could decline.. 39. Table of Contents"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
