[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating our company and common stock. Any of the following risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, and could also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Risks Related to Our Business. We face intense competition in our business.. We face various degrees and types of competition in our different businesses.  In some cases our products compete directly with those of third party competitors.  In other cases, competition in one segment, such as in our Weighing and Control Systems segment, may affect not only the sales of our systems within that segment, but also sales of products that we incorporate in those systems from other segments, such as load cells and strain gages.. We have a significant market position in foil resistors and foil strain gages. Foil resistors and foil strain gages are also produced by competitors, principally located in China. We believe that our foil technology products provide superior performance relative to our competitors, but that could change if our competitors succeed in developing and introducing innovative competitive offerings. Also, our foil strain gages compete with other types of strain gages, such as semiconductor strain gages, which we do not manufacture. We believe that other types of strain gages are not as reliable or stable as our foil strain gages, but that could change as the technology for these other products continues to evolve. If our competitors are able to improve the quality, performance, or pricing of their products relative to our offerings, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. The market for transducer/load cell products is highly fragmented and very competitive. Our load cell modules and systems face competition from numerous other load cell module and systems manufacturers. Competition for modules and systems is most often based on customer relationships, product reliability, technical performance, and the ability to anticipate and satisfy customer needs for specific design configurations. Many other manufacturers have more experience in particular geographic markets and specific applications than we do, and may be better positioned to compete in these areas. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully grow our business in the face of these competitive challenges.. Our vertical product integration exposes us to certain risks.. Our business structure emphasizes vertical product integration. For example our force sensor business is the largest customer (by volume) for our strain gages.  Similarly, our weighing and control systems business uses our force sensor products in its systems.  Many of our acquisitions, which form the core operations of our business, had the effect of extending our vertical integration.. While we believe this has been, and will continue to be, a sound business structure, vertical product integration and the resulting interdependencies of our divisions exposes us to certain risks. As a consequence of our vertical integration, our force sensors business may compete with certain of our customers and potential customers for strain gages while our systems business may compete with certain of our customers and potential customers for force sensors, who, for that reason, may elect not to do business with us.. To remain successful, we must continue to innovate, and our investments in new technologies may not prove successful.. Our future operating results depend on our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet customer requirements. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change, that customers may be unwilling, or unable, to adopt the new products or methods of using them, that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands, or that such products will experience quality or other qualification issues with our customers as they, and we, gain experience with qualifying them and using them.  If this occurs, we could lose customers and experience adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be successful in future acquisitions or other strategic transaction endeavors, if any, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Historically, we expanded our business in part by completing acquisitions, and an important element of our business strategy continues to be expansion through acquisition. We cannot assure that we will identify, have the financial capabilities to execute, and/or successfully complete strategic transactions with suitable partners in the future. We also cannot assure that any such transactions that we do complete in the future will be successful.. - 12 -. Such transactions or investments involve a number of risks, including the following:. • we may incur substantial costs, including advisory fees and diversion of management attention, in evaluating a potential transaction;. • we may be unable to achieve the anticipated benefits from the transaction;. • we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of an acquired business, and may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business;. • we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products into our existing solutions;. • our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues, and the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations; and. • we may lose customers of those companies, or may lose our customers due to the change in control or for other reasons.. The factors noted above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. These negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs.. Future acquisitions may require us to incur or issue additional indebtedness or issue additional equity.. If we were to undertake future substantial acquisitions for cash, these acquisitions would likely need to be financed in part through bank borrowings, or the issuance of public or private debt. This acquisition financing would likely decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other credit metrics. Our revolving credit facilities require us to obtain the lenders' consent for certain additional debt financing and to comply with other covenants, including the application of specific financial ratios. We cannot assure that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms, if and when, required. If we were to make an acquisition with equity, the acquisition may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common stock.. We may experience difficulties, delays, or unexpected costs in completing our cost reduction programs.. To remain competitive, particularly when business conditions are difficult, we sometimes take steps to reduce our cost structure by restructuring our existing businesses to achieve efficiencies, eliminate redundant functions, facilities and staff positions, and move operations, where possible, to reduce labor or other costs.. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of these programs without encountering difficulties, which may include complications in the transfer of production knowledge, loss of key employees and/or customers, and the disruption of ongoing business. Any of these difficulties could delay and/or undermine our ability to realize the benefits of these cost reduction programs, as well as potentially adversely affecting our customer relationships and operations.. Our business is cyclical, and in periods of increased economic strength, we may experience intense demand for our products. If our cost reduction programs and related restructuring result in us not being able to satisfy our customer's demand for products during a rising economy, and our competitors sufficiently expand production, we could lose customers and/or market share. These losses could have an adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, and results of operations.. We might require additional capital to support business growth and this capital might not be available.. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges or opportunities, including the need to develop new offerings or enhance our existing offerings, enhance our operating infrastructure, or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve additional restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions.. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited.. We may encounter difficulties in the implementation or operation of new enterprise resource planning systems.. We have implemented, and continue to implement, new enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") systems in different parts of our business.  ERP systems are integral to our ability to accurately and efficiently manage our manufacturing and sales activities, and provide critical business information to management. The implementation of an ERP system may cause us to incur additional costs, shipment delays, and related customer dissatisfaction; expend employee (including Company management) time and attention; and otherwise burden our internal resources. Any difficulties we encounter with the implementation or successful. - 13 -. operation of an ERP system could damage the effectiveness of our business processes and could adversely impact our ability to accurately and effectively forecast and manage sales demand, manage our supply chain, and report management information on an accurate and timely basis, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our success is dependent upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property.. We rely on a combination of the protections provided by applicable patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as on confidentiality procedures and other contractual arrangements, to establish and protect our rights in our technology, and related materials and information. We enter into agreements with our customers and distributors. These agreements contain confidentiality and non-disclosure provisions, a limited warranty covering our products, and indemnification for the customer from infringement actions related to our products.. Despite our efforts, it may be possible for others to copy portions of our products, reverse engineer them, or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, all of which could adversely affect our competitive position. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technology similar to ours. The laws of certain countries in which we manufacture do not protect our intellectual property (\"IP\") rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In the Office of the United States Trade Representative (\"USTR\") annual \"Special 301\" Report released in April 2017, the adequacy and effectiveness of intellectual property protection in a number of foreign countries were analyzed.. A number of countries in which we manufacture are identified in the report as being on the Priority Watch List.  In China, for instance, the USTR is concerned about the existence of widespread infringing activity, including trade secret theft, rampant online piracy and counterfeiting, and high levels of physical pirated and counterfeit exports to markets around the globe.  Structural impediments to civil and criminal enforcement of IP rights are also problematic.  Further, China imposes requirements that U.S. firms develop their IP in China or transfer their IP to Chinese entities as a condition to accessing the Chinese market.  China also requires that mandatory adverse terms be applied to foreign IP licensors, and requires that U.S. firms localize research and development activities.  The USTR also expressed concern that in India serious deficiencies remain in its legal framework and enforcement system for intellectual property rights.  Algeria, Argentina, Chile,  Indonesia, Kuwait, Russia, Thailand, Ukraine, and Venezuela were also identified because of problems in intellectual property enforcement. The absence of harmonized intellectual property protection laws and effective enforcement makes it difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent, trade secret, and other intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis. As a result, it is possible that we will not be able to enforce our rights against third parties that misappropriate our proprietary technology in those countries.. The success of our business is highly dependent on maintenance of intellectual property rights.. The unauthorized use of our IP rights may increase the cost of protecting these rights or reduce our revenues. We seek to protect trade secrets and our other proprietary technology, in part, by requiring each of our employees to enter into non-disclosure and IP assignment agreements. In these agreements, the employee agrees to maintain the confidentiality of all of our proprietary information and, subject to certain exceptions, to assign to us all rights in any proprietary information or technology made, or contributed, by the employee during his or her employment. Generally, we do not enter into non-compete arrangements with our employees, with the exception of certain executives and, in some cases, one or more of the principals of the businesses that we acquire.. All of these types of agreements may be breached or be found unenforceable, and we may not have an adequate remedy for any such breach of, or inability to enforce, these agreements. We may initiate, or be subject to, claims or litigation for infringement of proprietary rights, or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights, which could result in significant expense to us, cause product shipment delays, require us to enter royalty or licensing agreements, and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks, whether or not such litigation were determined in our favor.. We may be exposed to product liability claims.. While our agreements with our customers and distributors typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential material product liability claims, including appropriate warranty, indemnification, damages waiver, and limitation of liability provisions, it is possible that such provisions may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions, thus exposing us to substantial liability. Moreover, defending a suit, regardless of its merits, could entail substantial expense, and require the time and attention of key management personnel. If product liability claims are brought against us, the costs associated with defending such claims may adversely affect our results of operations and future cash flows.. We must expend significant resources to obtain design wins without assurance that we will be successful.. In many cases, we must initiate communication with our customers, and convince the customer that our products and systems will offer solutions for its business that are technically superior and more cost effective compared to their existing arrangements. To do so, we must often expend significant financial and human resources to develop technologically compelling products or systems with no guarantee that they will be adopted by our customers. The non-recurring engineering (\"NRE\") costs for product development in these cases could be substantial, and may adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to recover these costs.. - 14 -. Also, customers will often require a lengthy period of on-site testing before committing to purchase a product or system, during which period we will not receive material revenue from the customer. While a design win for our products and systems may result in a long period of recurring revenue during which we hope to recover our costs, we must often internally finance our development costs over significant time periods. If our products or systems fail to gain acceptance with our customers, we will be forced to absorb any NRE costs, which could adversely affect our business if these costs are substantial.. The long development times for certain of our products and systems may result in unpredictable fluctuations in revenue and results of operations.. Our force sensor products, and weighing and control systems, often involve long product development cycles, both to develop the product or system and to secure customer acceptance following what may be a lengthy on-site testing period. During product development and testing, we may incur substantial costs without corresponding revenues. If our custom product or system is ultimately accepted by the customer, we may then begin to realize substantial revenues from our development efforts.. In particular, our weighing and control systems can be priced for several hundred thousand dollars per unit, so that a contract to acquire one or more units can materially contribute to our revenues during the period or periods that we are permitted to recognize the contract revenues for accounting purposes. The nature of our weighing and control products and systems, and in particular, the products and systems manufactured by the steel business, may therefore result in substantial fluctuations in our operating results, including revenues and profitability, from period to period, even though there has been no fundamental change in our business or its prospects. Further, customers may request a delay in shipping a product they have ordered due to changes in their business needs, which may delay the revenue recognition for the product until shipment occurs.  This may make it difficult for investors to undertake period-to-period comparisons of our performance. Also, the fluctuating nature of key components of our revenues may limit the visibility of our management regarding performance in future periods, and make it more difficult for our management to provide guidance to our investors.. We may not have adequate facilities to satisfy future increases in demand for our products.. Our business is cyclical and in periods of a rising economy, we may experience intense demand for our products. During such periods, we may have difficulty expanding our manufacturing capacity to satisfy demand. Factors which could limit such expansion include delays in procurement of manufacturing equipment, shortages of skilled personnel, and physical constraints on expansion at our facilities. If we are unable to meet our customers' requirements and our competitors sufficiently expand production, we could lose customers and/or market share. These losses could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, capacity that we add during upturns in the business cycle may result in excess capacity during periods when demand for our products recedes, resulting in inefficient use of capital, adversely affecting our business.. The nature of the market for our products may render them particularly susceptible to downturns in the economic environment.. Our products are designed to replace and provide superior functionality over existing product infrastructure utilized by our customers. Often, it is only after introductory demonstrations by our sales and engineering teams that our customers come to appreciate the advantages of our products and systems, and the long-term benefits of their adoption. An economic downturn or extended period of economic uncertainty may make customers less receptive to adopting new technological solutions at our suggestion - even ones with demonstrated operational and financial advantages. During these periods, customers may defer, or even cancel, orders for products and systems for which they have previously contracted, or given indications of interest.. Also, because our business is concentrated largely in the industrial sector, we do not benefit from countervailing fluctuations in consumer demand. As a result, our business may be more significantly affected by the consequences of a general economic slowdown than other segments of our industry, and may also take longer to recover from the effects of a slowdown.. Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation.. Many of the orders that comprise our backlog may be canceled by our customers without penalty. Our customers, particularly for our foil technology products, often cancel orders when business is weak and inventories are excessive, a situation that we have experienced during periods of economic slowdown. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the amount of our backlog accurately forecasts the level of orders that will ultimately be delivered. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if customers cancel a material portion of orders in our backlog.. The complexity of our sophisticated weighing and control systems may require costly corrections if design flaws are found.. Our weighing and control systems combine sophisticated electronic hardware and computer software. We believe that the sophistication of our systems contributes to their competitive advantage over similar products offered by other system integrators. We go to substantial lengths to assure that our systems are free of design flaws when they are delivered to our customers for installation and testing. However, due to the systems' complexity, design flaws may occur and require correction. If the requisite corrections are substantial, or difficult to implement due to the systems' complexity, we may not be able to recover the costs of correction and retesting, with the result that our profit margins on these systems could be substantially reduced, or even negated by losses, and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. - 15 -. Our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost.. Although most materials incorporated in our products are available from a number of sources, certain materials are available only from a relatively limited number of suppliers. We generally maintain a supply of strategic raw materials for continuity and risk management. Our customers would need significant advance notification to qualify alternative materials, if we had to use them. Alternative suppliers are available worldwide for most of our raw materials, but significant time (up to 12 months) would be required to qualify new suppliers and establish efficient production scheduling.. Certain metals used in the manufacture of our products are traded on active markets, and can be subject to significant price volatility.. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, if the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, if there are significant price changes for these raw materials, or if compliance with the laws and regulations described below proves costly and time-consuming. For periods in which the prices of these raw materials are rising, we may be unable to pass on the increased cost to our customers, which would result in decreased margins for the products in which they are used. For periods in which the prices are declining, we may be required to write down our inventory carrying cost of these raw materials, since we record our inventory at the lower of cost or market. Depending on the extent of the difference between market price and our carrying cost, this write-down could have a material adverse effect on our net earnings. We also may need to record losses for adverse purchase commitments for these materials in periods of declining prices.. Pursuant to the SEC's \"conflict minerals\" rules, reporting companies that determine that certain metals, dubbed \"conflict minerals\" by the SEC (which include tantalum, gold, tin, and tungsten sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries), are necessary to the functionality or production of a product they manufacture, or contract to have manufactured, must file a specialized disclosure form with the SEC. We use raw materials that are subject to conflict minerals rules. The compliance with the SEC's related disclosure requirements may affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our products. Also, because our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to materially verify the origins of all \"in scope\" metals used in our products.. Our product sales may be adversely affected by changes in product classification levels under various qualification and specification standards.. Certain of our products must be qualified or approved under various military and aerospace specifications and other standards.. We have qualified certain of our foil resistor products under various military specifications approved and monitored by the DLA, and under certain European military specifications, and various aerospace standards approved by NASA and the ESA.. Qualification and specification levels are based in part upon product failure rate. We must continuously perform tests on our products, and for products that are qualified, the results of these tests must be reported to the qualifying organization.. Certain of our force sensor products are approved by the NTEP and OIML. Our on-board weighing systems must meet approved standards to make them legal-for-trade.. If a product fails to meet the requirements for the applicable classification level or other approval, the product's classification or approval may be suspended or reduced to a lower level. During the time that the classification is suspended or reduced to a lower level, net revenues and earnings attributable to that product may be adversely affected.. Our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative personnel.. The competitive environment of our business requires us to attract and retain highly qualified personnel to develop technological innovations and bring them to market on a timely basis. Our complex operations also require us to attract and retain highly qualified administrative personnel in functions such as legal, tax, accounting, business development, financial reporting, and treasury. The market for personnel with such qualifications is highly competitive. We have not entered into employment or non-competition agreements with many of our key personnel.. The loss of the services of, or the failure to effectively recruit, qualified personnel, including for key executive positions, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our ability to meet our reporting requirements.. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports, and to effectively prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and. - 16 -. fair presentation of financial statements. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed.  Our acquisition of new businesses requires the integration and harmonization of the acquired business' controls with our existing controls in order to properly account for the acquired business' assets and operations.  If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price.. As described in \"Item 9A. Controls and Procedures\", we have identified a material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting that, if not properly corrected, could materially adversely affect our operations and result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. If we are unable to remediate the material weakness in a timely manner, we may be unable to provide holders of our securities with the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner and we may incorrectly report financial information. Either of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor, supplier and customer confidence in our reported financial information and/or the trading price of our common stock.. We are exposed to, and may be adversely affected by, interruptions to our computer and information technology systems and sophisticated cyber-attacks.. We rely on our information technology systems and networks in connection with many of our business activities. Some of these networks and systems are managed by third party service providers and are not under our direct control. Our operations routinely involve receiving, storing, processing, and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, customers, suppliers, employees, and other sensitive matters.  Any cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise personally identifiable information regarding customers or employees; and jeopardize the security of our facilities. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, or to implement adequate preventative measures. Information technology security threats, including security breaches, computer malware, and other cyber-attacks are increasing in both frequency and sophistication, and could create financial liability, subject us to legal or regulatory sanctions, or damage our reputation with customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders. We continuously seek to maintain a robust program of information security and controls, but the impact of a material information technology event could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, reputation, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Future changes in our environmental liability and compliance obligations may harm our ability to operate or increase costs.. Our manufacturing operations, products and/or packaging are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling, disposal, and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes, and certain chemicals used or generated in our manufacturing processes, workplace health and safety labeling, or other notifications with respect to the content, or other aspects of our processes, products or packaging, restrictions on the use of certain materials in or on design aspects of our products or packaging, and responsibility for disposal of products or packaging. New liabilities could arise, and we may have unavoidably inherited certain pre-existing environmental liabilities, generally based on successor liability doctrines. Although we have never been involved in any environmental matter that has had a material adverse impact on our overall operations, there can be no assurance that in connection with any past or future operation, acquisition or otherwise, we will not be obligated to address environmental matters that could have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, more stringent environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, and we cannot presently determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with these regulations.. Our credit facilities subject us to financial and operating restrictions.. We maintain revolving credit agreements and term loans with banks that we use, or may use, for working capital, acquisition financing, and other purposes. These credit facilities subject us to certain restrictions which may affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to:. • borrow additional funds;. • pay dividends or make other distributions;. • repurchase our common stock;. • make investments, including capital expenditures;. • complete acquisitions;. • engage in transactions with affiliates or subsidiaries; or. • create liens on our assets.. - 17 -. Our primary credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios.  If we fail to comply with the covenant restrictions contained in the credit facility, that failure could result in termination of the facility, and all amounts outstanding could become immediately payable.. Unexpected events, such as a natural disaster, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results of operations.. We have manufacturing and other facilities in countries around the world. Unexpected events, including fires or explosions at facilities; natural disasters, such as flooding, hurricanes, and earthquakes; war or terrorist activities; unplanned outages; supply disruptions; and failures of equipment or systems at any of our facilities could adversely affect our results of operation. If adverse conditions were to arise with respect to any of our facilities as a result of a natural disaster or other unexpected event, they may result in customer disruption, physical damage to one or more key operating facilities, the temporary closure of one or more key operating facilities, the temporary disruptions of information systems, and/or an adverse effect on our results of operations.. A significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments balances were held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries.. We generate a significant amount of cash and profits from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2017, $69.0 million of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were held by subsidiaries outside of the United States.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"2017 Tax Act\"), enacted on December 22, 2017, transitions the U.S. from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial tax system. Under previous law, companies could indefinitely defer U.S. income taxation on unremitted foreign earnings. The 2017 Tax Act imposes a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings of 15.5% for liquid assets and 8% for illiquid assets, payable in defined increments over eight years. As a result of this requirement, we provisionally expect to pay approximately $0.2 million, net of estimated applicable foreign tax credits, and after utilization of net operating loss and various carryforwards. We expect that we will not need to repatriate amounts from our non-U.S. subsidiaries to the United States to satisfy this tax obligation.. These previously deferred foreign earnings may now be repatriated to the United States with little to no additional U.S. federal taxation. However, any such repatriation could incur local withholding tax in the source and intervening foreign jurisdictions.  These amounts could also be subject to certain U.S. state taxes.. Changes in our tax rate or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.  In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions.  Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions.  Our effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, and changes in tax laws.. Any of these factors may adversely affect our tax rate and decrease our profitability.  The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audit by U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign tax authorities.  If these tax audits result in assessments, our future results may be unfavorably impacted.. As a global business, we have a complex tax structure, and there is a risk that the tax authorities will disagree with our transfer pricing.. We are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations in the U.S. and foreign countries in which we operate. Transfer pricing regulations generally require that transactions between related companies be determined comparable to transactions on an arm's length basis and that contemporaneous documentation be maintained to support the pricing used. Although transfer pricing standards are generally similar in many of the countries in which we operate, there is still a relatively high degree of uncertainty and inherent subjectivity in complying with these requirements. This topic has received additional scrutiny in recent years, including the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project. To the extent that any tax authority disagrees with our transfer pricing practices, we could incur significant costs to defend our position and could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities, interest, and penalties.. We may not be able to realize our deferred tax assets which would adversely impact tax expense in future periods.. We regularly assess the ability to realize deferred tax assets in each jurisdiction in which we operate based on a number of factors, including historic operating results, estimates of future earnings, the economic environment, the nature and character of the income, and the existence of cost effective tax planning strategies. This assessment requires significant judgment. If we determine that deferred tax assets are not \"more likely than not\" to be realized, we record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to a level that is expected to be realized.  If we subsequently determine that realization becomes \"more likely than not\", a valuation. - 18 -. allowance will be reversed.  Any increase or decrease in our valuation allowances could have a significant impact on our financial results.. We use the mark Vishay under license from Vishay Intertechnology, which could result in product and market confusion.. We use the mark Vishay as part of our name and in connection with many of our products. Our use of the Vishay mark is governed by an agreement between us and Vishay Intertechnology, giving us a perpetual, royalty-free, worldwide license for the use of the mark. We believe that it is important that we continue the use of the Vishay name, to a certain extent, in order to benefit from the reputation of the Vishay brand, which was first used in connection with our foil resistors and strain gages when Vishay Intertechnology was founded over 50 years ago.. There are risks associated with our use of the Vishay mark, however, both for us and for Vishay Intertechnology. Because both we, and Vishay Intertechnology, use the Vishay mark, confusion could arise in the market regarding the products offered by the two companies, and there could be a misplaced perception of our continuing to be associated with Vishay Intertechnology.  Also, any negative publicity associated with one of the two companies in the future could adversely affect the public image of the other. Finally, Vishay Intertechnology will have the right to terminate the license agreement, in certain extreme circumstances, if we are in material and repeated breach of the terms of the agreement, which would likely have an adverse effect on us and our business.. Risks relating to our operations outside the United States. We attempt to improve profitability by operating in countries in which manufacturing efficiencies may be achieved, but the shift of operations to these regions may entail considerable expense.. Our strategy is aimed at achieving significant production cost savings through the transfer and expansion of manufacturing operations to and in countries in which we have existing capacity, as well as countries with lower production costs or other benefits, such as India.  During this process, we may experience under-utilization of certain plants and factories in higher-cost regions, and capacity constraints in plants and factories located in lower-cost regions. Also, we may experience delays in the expected transition from a higher-cost location to a lower-cost one that results in greater than expected use of the higher-cost facility.  This transitional utilization may result initially in production inefficiencies and higher costs. These costs include those associated with compensation in connection with workforce reductions and plant closings in the higher-cost regions, start-up expenses, manufacturing and construction delays, and increased depreciation costs in connection with the initiation or expansion of production in lower-cost regions. In addition, as we implement transfers of certain of our operations, we may experience strikes or other types of labor unrest as a result of layoffs or termination of our employees in higher-cost countries.. In connection with the transfer of manufacturing operations to lower-cost countries, and upgrading of existing facilities in higher-cost countries, we are also increasing the level of automation in our plants to optimize our capital and labor resources in production, inventory management, quality control, and warehousing. Although we have substantial experience with automation in several of our plants in higher-cost countries, there are risks in automating plants which previously did not use a significant amount of automation, including the possibility of inefficiencies and higher operating costs in the transition from manual to automated operations. If the transition extends longer than anticipated, we could suffer product yield inefficiencies, contributing to higher product costs and increasing the time it will take for us to achieve a return on our investment in the capital equipment involved in the automation process.  Furthermore, any layoffs or termination of our employees as a result of increased automation may lead to strikes or other types of labor unrest. If we experience these types of inefficiencies, they could have an adverse effect on our operating results, customer relationships, and financial condition.. We conduct a significant amount of business in the European Union, including in England, and our operations may be affected by the results of the referendum vote by the United Kingdom to leave the European Union.. On June 23, 2016, the citizens of the United Kingdom approved a referendum to leave the European Union (\"Brexit\"), which led to significant market volatility around the world, as well as political, economic and legal uncertainty. [In addition, the Brexit vote triggered a devaluing of the pound sterling relative to the euro and the U.S. dollar, and in Europe we generally sell our products and incur expense in local currencies including the pound sterling and the euro, but incur exchange rate gains and losses for U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities including intercompany and third-party accounts receivables and payables.] This exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relative to some of these U.S. dollar denominated balances may result in an adverse impact on our results of operations.. The long-term nature of the United Kingdom's relationship with the European Union is unclear and there is considerable uncertainty when any relationship will be agreed and implemented. During this time, negotiations will take place to unravel all of the existing legal, political and financial frameworks and obligations, and put new structures in place. At this stage, it is uncertain what the final results of these negotiations will be and, given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear how Brexit will affect economic conditions in the United Kingdom, the European Union, or globally. Because we have sales throughout the European Union and offices in England and throughout the EU, it is possible that Brexit may require us to restructure our European operations, and depending on what is negotiated, could impair our ability to transact business in other countries in the European Union.. - 19 -. We are subject to the risks of political, economic, and military instability in countries outside the United States in which we operate.. Some of our products are produced in Israel, India, China, and other countries which are particularly subject to risks of political, economic, and military instability. This instability could result in wars, riots, nationalization of industry, currency fluctuations, and labor unrest. These conditions could have an adverse impact on our ability to operate in these regions and, depending on the extent and severity of these conditions, could materially and adversely affect our overall financial condition and operating results.. Our business has been in operation in Israel for over 40 years. We have never experienced any material interruption in our operations attributable to these factors, in spite of several Middle East crises, including wars. However, we might be adversely affected if events were to occur in the Middle East that interfered with our operations in Israel.. We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risks which may impact our results of operations.. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to market values of transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries.. Our significant foreign subsidiaries are located in the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Israel, Japan, and India. Our operations in Europe, Canada and certain locations in Asia primarily generate and expend cash in local currencies. Our operations in Israel and certain locations in Asia primarily generate cash in U.S. dollars, but these subsidiaries also have significant transactions in local currencies. Our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk is more pronounced in situations such as our operations in Canada, India, Israel, and China - where costs, such as production labor costs are predominantly paid in local currencies while the sales revenue for those products is predominantly denominated in U.S. dollars.. As of December 31, 2017, we did not have in place any arrangements to mitigate or hedge against exposures relating to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rate.. A change in the mix of the currencies in which we transact our business could have a material effect on results of operations. Furthermore, the timing of cash receipts and disbursements could have a material effect on our results of operations, particularly if there are significant changes in exchange rates in a short period of time.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Our smaller size may affect the trading market for our shares.. We are considered a \"microcap\" company and our trading volume is likely to fluctuate. Also, it is possible that there will be less market and institutional interest in our shares, and that we will not attract substantial coverage in the analyst community. As a result, the trading market for our shares may be less liquid, making it more difficult for investors to dispose of their shares at favorable prices, and investors may have less independent information and analysis available to them concerning our company.. Our stock price could become more volatile and investments could lose value.. The market price of our common stock, and the number of shares traded each day, has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. • shortfalls in our expected net revenue, earnings or key performance metrics;. • changes in recommendations or estimates by securities analysts;. • the announcement of new products by us or our competitors;. • quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations;. • a change in our dividend or stock repurchase activities;. • developments in our industry or changes in the market for technology stocks;. • changes in rules or regulations applicable to our business; and. • other factors, including economic instability and changes in political or market conditions.. A significant drop in our stock price could expose us to costly and time consuming litigation, which could result in substantial costs, and divert management's attention and resources, resulting in an adverse effect on our business.. The holders of Class B convertible common stock have effective voting control of our company.. We have two classes of common stock: common stock and Class B convertible common stock.  The holders of common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held, while the holders of Class B convertible common stock are entitled to 10 votes for each share held.  The ownership of Class B convertible common stock is highly concentrated, and holders of Class B convertible common stock effectively can cause the election of directors and the approval/or disapproval of other matters requiring stockholder approval.  Mrs. Ruta Zandman, the wife of the late founder of our technology, Dr. Felix Zandman, controls, or shares control of, the voting of approximately 76.8% of our Class B convertible common stock, representing 34.8% of the total voting power of our capital stock as of December 31, 2017.. - 20 -. Your percentage ownership of our common stock may be diluted in the future.. Your percentage ownership of our common stock may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that we expect will be granted to our directors, officers, and employees, as well as due to certain convertible or exchangeable debt instruments. The Vishay Precision Group, Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Program provides for the grant of equity-based awards, including restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock options, and other equity-based awards to our directors, officers, and other employees, advisors and consultants.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that you might consider favorable.. Our bylaws contain provisions that could be considered \"anti-takeover\" provisions because they make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. Under these by-law provisions:. • stockholders may not change the size of the board of directors or, except in limited circumstances, fill vacancies on the board of directors;. • stockholders may not call special meetings of stockholders;. • stockholders must comply with advance notice provisions for nominating directors or presenting other proposals at stockholder meetings; and. • our Board of Directors, may without stockholder approval, issue preferred shares and determine their rights and terms, including voting rights, or adopt a stockholder rights plan.. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorable by our stockholders.. - 21 -"
