[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our Company and our business.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We operate in a highly competitive industry and our failure to compete effectively could materially and adversely affect our sales and growth prospects.. The U.S. nutritional supplements retail industry is a large and highly fragmented industry. We compete primarily against other specialty retailers, supermarkets, drug stores, club chains, mass merchants, multi-level marketing organizations and e-commerce companies. This market is highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. As certain products become more mainstream, with broader distribution, we experience increased competition for those products. For example, as the trend in favor of low carb products developed, we experienced increased competition for our low carb products from supermarkets, drug stores, club chains, mass merchants and other food companies. Increased competition from companies that distribute through retail, e-commerce or wholesale channels could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, our competitors may be more effective and efficient in introducing new products. Furthermore, if we fail to increase the utilization of our supply chain network, fail to maximize the efficiency of our ship direct to customers strategies, or fail to provide our customers with an attractive omni-channel experience, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to compete effectively, and any of the factors listed above may cause price reductions, reduced margins and losses of our market share.. Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our products and any similar products distributed by other companies could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, which could result in decreased sales and significant fluctuations in our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend significantly on consumer perception regarding the safety and quality of our products, as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Consumer perception of products can be significantly influenced by adverse publicity in the form of published scientific research, national media attention or other publicity, whether or not accurate, that associates consumption of our products or any other similar products with illness or other adverse effects, or questions the benefits of our or similar products or that claims that any such products are ineffective. A new product may initially be received favorably, resulting in high sales of that product, but that sales level may not be sustainable as consumer preferences change. Future scientific research or publicity could be unfavorable to our industry or any of our particular products and may not be consistent with earlier favorable research or publicity. Unfavorable research or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate sales.. Our failure to appropriately and timely respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products and services could significantly harm our customer relationships and our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to changing consumer trends and preferences. Our failure to accurately predict or react to these trends could negatively impact consumer opinion of us as a source for the latest products, which in turn could harm our customer relationships and cause us to lose market share. The success of our product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to:. • anticipate customer needs;. • innovate and develop new products;. • successfully introduce new products in a timely manner;. • price our products competitively with retail and online competitors;. • deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and. • differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors.. If we do not introduce new products or make enhancements to meet the changing needs of our customers in a timely manner, some of our products could be rendered obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and other operating results.. 15. Table of Contents. We continue to explore new strategic initiatives, but we may not be able to successfully execute on, or realize the expected benefits from the implementation of our strategic initiatives, and our pursuit of new strategic initiatives may pose significant costs and risks.. Our strategic initiatives are focused on, among other things, new customer acquisition, improving the customer experience through the roll-out of initiatives including increasing customer engagement and personalization, improving the omni-channel experience (including in stores as well as through the internet and mobile devices), providing a relevant and inspiring product assortment and improving customer loyalty and retention. Our future operating results are dependent, in part, on our management's success in implementing these and other strategic initiatives, and as a result could divert management's attention from our existing business as management focuses on developing these initiatives and related operations. Also, our short-term operating results could be unfavorably impacted by the opportunity and financial costs associated with the implementation of our strategic plans and we might not realize the benefits from such strategies. In addition, we may not be successful in achieving the intended objectives of the strategic initiatives in a timely manner or at all.. We may experience product recalls, withdrawals or seizures, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to product recalls, withdrawals or seizures if any of the products we sell or the products that we manufacture for third parties is believed to cause injury or illness or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations in the manufacturing, labeling, promotion, sale or distribution of those products. A significant recall, withdrawal or seizure of any of the products we manufacture or sell may require significant management attention, would likely result in substantial and unexpected costs and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, a recall, withdrawal or seizure of any of our products may adversely affect consumer confidence in our brands and thus decrease consumer demand for our products. As is common in the VMS industry, except with respect to the products that we manufacture at our manufacturing facility, we rely on our contract manufacturers and suppliers to ensure that the products they manufacture and sell to us comply with all applicable regulatory and legislative requirements. In general, we seek representations and warranties, indemnification and/or insurance from our contract manufacturers and suppliers. However, even with adequate insurance and indemnification, any claims of non-compliance could significantly damage our reputation and consumer confidence in our products. In addition, the failure of those products to comply with applicable regulatory and legislative requirements could prevent us from marketing the products or require us to recall or remove such products from the market, which in certain cases could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Disruptions at our or our contract manufacturers' manufacturing facilities or loss of our or their manufacturing certifications could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and customer relationships.. Our private brands merchandise accounted for approximately 22% of our net sales (excluding Nutri-Force net sales) in Fiscal 2017. Any significant disruption in a contract manufacturers' manufacturing facilities for any reason, including regulatory requirements, an FDA determination that the facility is not in compliance with the cGMP regulations, the loss of certifications, power interruptions, destruction of or damage to facilities, terrorist attacks, civil unrest, war or the perceived threat thereof, fires, hurricanes and other natural disasters could disrupt our contract manufacturers' ability to manufacture products for the Vitamin Shoppe assortment as well as disrupt our ability to manufacture products for our contract manufacturing customers and our own branded products. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we do not believe it would be difficult to source our products from other contract manufacturers, a transition period would be required in order to source our own branded products from other contract manufacturers.. Nutri-Force has incurred operating losses, which are expected to continue in Fiscal 2018. We have implemented initiatives to turnaround the performance of Nutri-Force which may not be successful in achieving the expected improvements.. The improved performance of our manufacturing operation will depend in large part on our ability to realize the benefits from the series of initiatives which have been implemented to reduce complexity.  These initiatives included reducing the manufacture of unprofitable product and focusing on core customers, improving efficiencies, establishing core processes and reducing costs and expenses. If the turnaround plan does not achieve its intended results, the anticipated improvements to our operating results may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, we are evaluating strategic alternatives for Nutri-Force, including a potential sale.  If we were to sell Nutri-Force, we might have to seek new sources to provide contract manufacturing for some of our private label VMS products.  It could take substantial time and resources to transfer production of VMS products to one or more contract manufacturers, which may result in supply chain inefficiencies and adversely affect our ability to satisfy consumer demand.  In addition, we may not find new contract. 16. Table of Contents. manufacturers that have sufficient capacity to satisfy our demands, or the ability to meet our quality standards; or, if we do, on terms that are favorable to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance.. Our customers for whom we contract manufacture may significantly influence our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our contract manufacturing business is dependent on demand for the products we manufacture for our customers and we have no control or influence over the market demand for those products. Demand for our customers' products can be adversely affected by, among other things, regulatory issues, the loss of patent or other intellectual property rights protection, the emergence of competing products, competition from other contract manufacturers, negative public or consumer perception of those products or our industry and changes in the marketing strategies for such products.. If production volumes of products that we manufacture for third parties and related revenues are not maintained, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any changes in product mix due to our customers' products may adversely affect our results of operations.. Increases in the price or shortages of supply of key raw materials could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our products and the products we manufacture for third parties are composed of certain key raw materials. If the prices of these raw materials were to increase significantly, it could result in a significant increase to us in the prices charged to us for our own branded products and third-party products. Raw material prices may increase in the future and we may not be able to pass on those increases to customers who purchase our products. A significant increase in the price of raw materials that cannot be passed on to customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are reliant upon the supply of raw materials that meet our specifications and the specifications of third parties for which we manufacture. If any raw material is adulterated and does not meet our specifications or third parties' specifications, it could significantly impact our ability to manufacture products and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, if we are no longer able to obtain products from one or more of our suppliers on terms reasonable to us or at all, our ability to perform under contracts with third parties for whom we manufacture products and our customer relationships could be materially and adversely affected. Events such as terrorist attacks, civil unrest or war, or the perceived threat thereof, may also have a significant adverse effect on raw material availability essential to the manufacturing of our products which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The cost of construction materials we use to build and remodel our stores is also subject to significant price volatility based on market and economic conditions. Higher construction material prices would increase the capital expenditures needed to construct a new store or remodel an existing store and could increase the rent payable by the Company under its leases.. We currently rely primarily on two warehouse and distribution facilities to distribute most of the products we sell. Disruptions to these warehouse and distribution facilities could adversely affect our business.. Our primary warehouse and distribution operations are currently concentrated in two locations; in Ashland, Virginia and in Avondale, Arizona. Any significant disruption to our two primary distribution centers operations for any reason, such as a flood, fire or hurricane, could adversely affect our product distributions and sales until we are able to secure an alternative distribution method. Unexpected delays in deliveries or increases in transportation costs (including through increased fuel costs) could significantly decrease our sales and operating results. In addition, labor shortages in the transportation industry or long-term disruptions to the national and international transportation infrastructure that lead to delays or interruptions of deliveries could negatively affect our business.. Failure to increase the utilization of our supply chain network could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we fail to increase the utilization of our supply chain network and expand functionality of our information technology systems, we could experience increased costs associated with diminished productivity and operating inefficiencies related to the flow of goods through our supply chain, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Our existing stores, or any stores we open in the future, may not achieve sales and operating levels consistent with current financial projections. In addition, our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to successfully negotiate favorable lease terms.. 17. Table of Contents. Since the beginning of Fiscal 2015, we have opened 91 stores, expanding our presence in our existing markets as well as entering new markets. Historically, our new stores have reached sales that are consistent with our mature stores over the course of approximately four to five years. As part of our strategy, we have reduced the number of planned new store openings in Fiscal 2018 as we focus on the transformation of existing stores. Our new stores opened since the beginning of Fiscal 2013 average approximately 2,900 square feet compared to the average of our total store portfolio of approximately 3,500 square feet. Existing stores, or any new stores we open in the future, may not achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our current financial projections. In addition, customer migration from retail stores to e-commerce may also reduce store potential. The failure of our existing stores and new stores to achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our current financial projections could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. As of December 30, 2017, we leased 785 stores along with our corporate headquarters, additional office space and manufacturing and distribution facilities. The store leases are generally for a term of ten years and we have options to extend most leases for a minimum of five years. Our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to continue to negotiate acceptable lease and renewal terms.. The loss of key management could negatively affect our business.. Our success largely depends on the efforts and abilities of our senior executive group and key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key executives or personnel, or increased demands placed on our key executives and personnel could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to execute our strategies. Our continued success also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified team members. We may not be able to attract and retain necessary team members to operate our business.. Our inability to attract, train and retain highly qualified Health Enthusiasts could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our Health Enthusiasts, and the loss of these contributions could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must attract, train and retain a large number of qualified Health Enthusiasts, while controlling related labor costs and maintaining our core values. Our ability to control labor and benefit costs is subject to numerous external factors, including regulatory changes, prevailing wage rates, and healthcare and other insurance costs. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these Health Enthusiasts and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified Health Enthusiasts in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to protect our brand names, competitors may adopt tradenames that dilute the value of our brand names.. We may be unable or unwilling to strictly enforce our tradenames in each jurisdiction in which we do business. In addition, because of the differences in foreign trademark laws concerning proprietary rights, our trademarks may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they do in the U.S. Also, we may not always be able to successfully enforce our trademarks against competitors or against challenges by others. Our failure to successfully protect our trademarks could diminish the value and efficacy of our past and future marketing efforts, and could cause customer confusion, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability.. Disruptions in our information systems could damage our reputation, be expensive to remedy and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We rely extensively on information systems for point-of-sale processing in our stores, our e-commerce business, supply chain, manufacturing operations, financial reporting, human resources and various other processes and transactions. Our information systems, including those provided and maintained by third-party service providers, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages or other types of damage, including those due to computer and telecommunications failures, natural events including hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, high winds and other severe weather, and from events caused by humans, including computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and acts of war or terrorism. Any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders, process and receive shipments of products, process financial and credit card transactions and providing services, which could make our product offerings less attractive and subject us to liability as well as result in lost customer confidence. Additionally, changes in technology could cause our information systems to become obsolete and it may be necessary to incur additional costs to upgrade such systems, and if our information systems prove inadequate to handle our growth, we could lose customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage to compensate for any related losses. Any of these events could damage our reputation, be expensive to remedy and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. If we fail to protect the integrity and security of customer-related and other confidential information, we could be exposed to litigation, increased costs and reputational damage, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. The use of individually identifiable data by us, our customers, our Health Enthusiasts and others is regulated at the state, federal and international levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change from time to time, and increasing costs of compliance with those laws and regulations and related technology investments could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, the success of our e-commerce operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including the use of cashless payments, and we use computers in substantially all other aspects of our business operations, including for point-of-sale processing in our stores. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. While we have taken significant steps to protect customers' personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information, and other confidential information including our employees' private information and financial and strategic data about the Company and our business partners, the intentional or negligent actions of Health Enthusiasts, our suppliers or others may undermine our security measures. As a result, unauthorized parties may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate confidential data. Furthermore, because the methods used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and may not be immediately detected, we may be unable to anticipate these methods or implement preventative measures, and our incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. Any preventative measures we implement may have the potential to negatively affect our relations with our customers or decrease activity on our websites by making them less user-friendly. If our data security is compromised, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition, materially increase the costs we incur to protect against those events in the future and subject us to additional legal risk and a competitive disadvantage. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to stop shopping at our stores or online. The loss of confidence from a data security breach involving Health Enthusiasts could hurt our, and their, reputations and as a result cause Health Enthusiast recruiting and retention challenges.. Natural disasters and unusually adverse weather conditions could cause permanent or temporary damage to our distribution centers or stores, impair our ability to purchase, receive or replenish inventory or cause customer traffic to decline, all of which could result in lost sales and otherwise materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, high winds and other severe weather, could materially and adversely affect our operations and results of operations. To the extent these events result in the closure of our distribution centers, our corporate headquarters, or a significant number of our stores, or to the extent they adversely affect one or more of our key suppliers, our operations and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected through an inability to make deliveries to our stores and through lost sales. In addition, these events could result in increases in fuel (or other energy) prices or a fuel shortage, delays in opening new stores, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from suppliers, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores, the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and disruption to our information systems, as noted above. These events also could have indirect consequences, such as increases in the cost of insurance, if they were to result in significant loss of property or other insurable damage.. Our e-commerce business is dependent on certain third parties. Changes in business practices or terms by such third parties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our e-commerce business has several third-party relationships that contribute to our ability to generate revenue from a variety of online sources. These relationships may be dependent upon third-party tools, such as search engines, or established business terms negotiated by the Company, or utilization of third party marketplaces. If the economics of these relationships or the use of the third-party tools used to drive revenue change materially, this could affect our decision to maintain these relationships, and could result in lost sales and otherwise materially and adversely affect our financial performance.. If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Omni-channel retailing is rapidly evolving, and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors. Our customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones, and other devices to shop online. As part of our omni-channel strategy, we are making technology investments. If we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant customer-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if our e-commerce businesses or our other customer-facing technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of customer confidence, lost sales, or data security breaches, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. We have significant lease obligations, which may require us to continue paying rent for store locations that we no longer operate.. Our stores are leased. We are subject to risks associated with our current and future real estate leases. Our costs could increase because of changes in the real estate markets and supply or demand for real estate sites. We generally cannot cancel our leases, so if we decide to close or relocate a location, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including paying the base rent for the remaining lease term. As each lease expires, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or any terms at all and may not be able to find replacement locations that will provide for the same success as current store locations. Of the current leases for our stores, 44 expire in Fiscal 2018, 103 expire in Fiscal 2019, 93 expire in Fiscal 2020, 90 expire in Fiscal 2021, 107 expire in Fiscal 2022 and the balance expire in Fiscal 2023 or thereafter.. Our international operations may result in additional market risks, which may harm our business.. As of December 30, 2017, we had 8 international franchise stores in Panama, 5 in Guatemala, 3 in Paraguay and 2 in Costa Rica, and also sell and distribute products to other countries and manufacture products for third parties in other countries. If the opportunity arises, we may expand our operations into new and high-growth international markets. However, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including but not limited to: (i) fluctuations in currency exchange rates; (ii) changes in international staffing and employment issues; (iii) tariff and other trade barriers; (iv) greater difficulty in using and enforcing our intellectual property rights; (v) failure to understand the local culture and market; (vi) inconsistent product regulation or sudden policy changes by foreign agencies or governments; (vii) compliance with U.S. laws applicable to international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations promulgated by the Office of Foreign Asset Control; (viii) compliance with foreign laws, including tax laws and financial accounting standards; and (ix) political and economic instability and developments. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our international operations and our growth strategy.. If we expand our operations into new international markets, we may enter into business combination transactions, make acquisitions or enter into strategic partnerships, joint ventures or alliances, any of which may be material. We may enter into these transactions to acquire other businesses or products to expand our products or take advantage of new developments and potential changes in the industry. Our lack of experience operating in new international markets and our lack of familiarity with local economic, political and regulatory systems could prevent us from achieving the results that we expect on our anticipated time frame or at all. If we are unsuccessful in expanding into new or high-growth international markets, it could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Legal and Regulatory Risks. We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a retailer, direct marketer and manufacturer of products designed for human consumption, we are subject to product liability claims if the use of our products or the products that we manufacture for third parties is alleged to have resulted in injury or to include inadequate instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects and interactions with other substances. Most of our products and the products that we manufacture for third parties are vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are classified as foods or dietary supplements and are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the U. S. Our products or the products that we manufacture for third parties could contain contaminated substances, and some of our products and the products that we manufacture for third parties contain ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. In addition, third-party manufacturers produce many of the products we sell. We rely on these manufacturers to ensure the integrity of their ingredients and formulations. As a distributor of products manufactured by third parties, we may also be liable for various product liability claims for products we do not manufacture. While we attempt to manage these risks by obtaining indemnification agreements from the manufacturers of products that we sell (other than our own branded products) and insurance, third parties may not satisfy their indemnification obligations to us and/or our insurance policies may not be sufficient or available. A product liability claim against us, whether with respect to products of a third party that we sell, our branded products or products that we manufacture for third parties, could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future at current rates, or we may experience unfavorable claims.. 20. Table of Contents. While we believe we will be able to obtain liability insurance in the future, because of increased selectivity by insurance providers we may only be able to obtain such insurance at increased rates and/or with reduced coverage levels. Additionally, we may experience unfavorable claims. Changes in insurance rates, reduced coverage levels, or unfavorable claims could reduce our income from operations.. Compliance with governmental regulations could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our operating income.. The processing, formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising and distribution of our products and the products that we manufacture for third parties are subject to federal laws and regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the USDA and the EPA. These activities are also regulated by various state, local and international laws and agencies of the states and localities in which our products and the products that we manufacture for third parties are sold. Regulations may prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of our products or the products that we manufacture for third parties, which could result in lost sales and increased costs to us. A regulatory agency may not accept the evidence of safety for any new ingredients that we may want to market, may determine that a particular ingredient is not a legal dietary ingredient under DSHEA, may determine that a particular product or product ingredient presents an unacceptable health risk, may determine that a particular statement of nutritional support on our products or that parties use on the products we manufacture for them, or that we want to use on our products or that third parties want to use on the products we manufacture for them, is an unacceptable drug claim or an unauthorized version of a food \"health claim.\" A regulatory agency may determine that particular claims are not adequately supported by available scientific evidence. Any such regulatory determination would prevent us or third parties, as applicable, from marketing particular products or using certain statements on those products, or force us to recall a particular product, which could adversely affect our sales of those products. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could subject us to liabilities, increase our costs or restrict our operations in the future.. Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing the handling and disposal of raw materials, non-compliant products and waste, the handling of regulated material that is included in our products or products that we manufacture for third parties and the disposal of products at the end of their useful life. These laws and regulations have increasingly become more stringent, and we may incur additional expenses to ensure compliance with existing or new requirements in the future. Any failure by us to comply with environmental, health and safety requirements could result in the limitation or suspension of our operations, including operations at our manufacturing facility. We also could incur monetary fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims or cleanup or other costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under such requirements. In addition, compliance with environmental, health and safety requirements could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire costly pollution control equipment, incur other significant expenses or modify our manufacturing processes.. Our manufacturing facilities use, store and dispose of hazardous substances in connection with the manufacturing processes. It is possible that these facilities may expose us to environmental liabilities associated with historical site conditions that have not yet been discovered. Some environmental laws impose liability for contamination on current and former owners and operators of affected sites, regardless of fault. If remediation costs or potential claims for personal injury or property or natural resource damages resulting from contamination arise, they may be material and may not be recoverable under any contractual indemnity or otherwise from prior owners or operators or any insurance policy. Additionally, we may not be able to successfully enforce any such indemnity or insurance policy in the future. In the event that new or previously unknown contamination is discovered or new cleanup obligations are otherwise imposed at any of our currently or previously owned or operated facilities, we may be required to take additional, unplanned remedial measures and record charges for which no reserves have been recorded.. Congress and/or regulatory agencies may impose additional laws or regulations or change current laws or regulations, and state attorneys general may increase enforcement of existing or new laws, and compliance with new or changed governmental regulations, or any state attorney proceeding, could increase our costs significantly and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, Congress, the FDA, the FTC, or other federal, state, local or foreign legislative and regulatory authorities may impose additional laws or regulations that apply to us, repeal laws or regulations that we consider favorable to us or impose more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. We are not able to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, repeals or interpretations or to predict the effect that additional governmental regulation, when and if it. 21. Table of Contents. occurs, would have on our business in the future. Those developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products (including products that we sell and products that we manufacture for third parties) not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. Any developments of this nature could increase our costs significantly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In July 2011, the FDA issued draft guidance governing the notification of new dietary ingredients (\"NDIs\") and in August 2016, the FDA issued revised draft guidance. We believe that the draft guidance, if implemented as proposed, would have a material impact on our operations. FDA enforcement of the NDI guidance as written could require us to incur additional expenses, which could be significant, and negatively affect our business in several ways, including, but not limited to, the detention and refusal of admission of imported products, the injunction of manufacturing of any dietary ingredients or dietary supplements until the FDA determines that those ingredients or products are in compliance, and the potential imposition of penalties for non-compliance.. Our failure to comply with FTC regulations could result in substantial monetary penalties and could adversely affect our operating results.. The FTC exercises jurisdiction over the advertising of dietary supplements and has instituted numerous enforcement actions against dietary supplement companies, including us, for failure to have adequate substantiation for claims made in advertising or for the use of false or misleading advertising claims. Failure by us to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial monetary penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims by others.. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims initiated by others, other competitors or entities may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights or in marks that are similar to ours, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. Claims and litigation of this nature could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using some of our products or the products that we manufacture for third parties, which could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability.. Changes in accounting standards and estimates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. Generally accepted accounting principles and the related authoritative guidance for many aspects of our business, including revenue recognition, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, leases, income taxes and stock-based compensation, are complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or changes in the underlying estimates, assumptions or judgments by our management could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, recently issued authoritative guidance for lease accounting will result in a significant increase to long-term assets and liabilities given we have a significant number of leases.. The accounting method for our convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which we refer to as FASB, issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, which we refer to as ASC 470-20.. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (including our Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the Company's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Convertible Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Convertible Notes. As a result, we are required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Convertible Notes to their face amount over the term of the Convertible Notes. We report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 requires interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results and the trading price of our common stock.. 22. Table of Contents. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (including the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. Risks Related to our Capital Structure. Our debt, and potential future additional indebtedness, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and otherwise adversely impact our operating income and growth prospects.. As of December 30, 2017, our total consolidated indebtedness was $140.3 million, consisting of borrowings under our Convertible Senior Notes, our Revolving Credit Facility and our capital lease liabilities.. Our current and potential future debt financing could:. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, industry and competitive conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, new store growth and other capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds.. Restrictions in the agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business.. The agreements governing our existing indebtedness contain, and the agreements governing our future indebtedness will likely contain, customary restrictions on us or our subsidiaries, including covenants that restrict us or our subsidiaries, as the case may be, from incurring additional indebtedness, granting liens on our assets, making investments, consolidating or merging with another business, selling or otherwise disposing of our assets, paying dividends and entering into transactions with our affiliates.. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other provisions of our Revolving Credit Facility may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our debt, which could cause those and other obligations to become immediately due and payable. In addition, these restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted.. Our ability to continue to access credit on the terms previously obtained for the funding of our operations and capital projects may be limited due to changes in credit markets.. In the past, the credit markets and the financial services industry have experienced disruption characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions, increased volatility in securities prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability and intervention from the U.S. and other governments. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term or widespread downturn, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the global commercial and residential real estate markets and related mortgage markets and reduced consumer confidence have contributed to increased market volatility. The cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by these conditions. We cannot be certain that funding for our capital needs will be available from our existing financial institutions and the credit markets if needed, and if available, to the extent required and on acceptable terms. The Revolving Credit Facility matures in 2022, and the Convertible Notes mature in 2020. If we cannot renew or refinance this facility and our notes upon their maturities or, more generally, obtain funding when needed, in each case on acceptable terms, such conditions may have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt.. 23. Table of Contents. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. Despite our current debt levels, we may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions which would intensify the risks discussed above.. Despite our current consolidated debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our Revolving Credit Facility. We will not be restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the Convertible Notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the indenture governing the Convertible Notes. Our Revolving Credit Facility restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, but if the facility matures or is repaid, we may not be subject to such restrictions under the terms of any subsequent indebtedness.. In December 2015, we issued $143.8 million of 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2020, which could dilute our existing stockholders' equity and lower our reported earnings per share.. We issued $143.8 million of indebtedness in December 2015 in the form of 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2020. The issuance of the Convertible Notes substantially increased our principal payment obligations. The holders of the Convertible Notes are entitled to convert the Convertible Notes into shares of our common stock under certain circumstances which would dilute our existing stockholders and lower our reported per share earnings.. In addition, in the event the conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The convertible notes hedge and warrant transactions we entered into in connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes may affect the value of the Convertible Notes and our common stock.. In connection with the pricing of the Convertible Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with the option counterparties. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Convertible Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Convertible Notes, as the case may be. We also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties. However, the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect on our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants.. In addition, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of the Convertible Notes). This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the Convertible Notes, which could affect the noteholders' ability to convert the Convertible Notes and, to the extent the activity occurs during any observation period related to a conversion of the Convertible Notes, it could affect the number of shares and value of the consideration that the holders will receive upon conversion of the Convertible Notes.. In addition, if any such convertible note hedge and warrant transactions fail to become effective, the option counterparties may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the value of the Convertible Notes.. 24. Table of Contents. Hedging instruments often involve counterparty risks.. We will be subject to risk with respect to our counterparties to the convertible notes hedge transactions. Counterparty risk is the risk that the other party in a derivative transaction will not fulfill its contractual obligation. Changes in the credit quality of our counterparties with respect to their derivative transactions may affect the value of those instruments. By entering into derivatives, we assume the risk that these counterparties could experience financial hardships that could call into question their continued ability to perform their obligations.. If a counterparty becomes bankrupt or otherwise fails to perform its obligations under a derivative contract due to financial difficulties, it is likely to result in a default under such derivative contract, unless such default is cured. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits, leaving us with unsecured exposure and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. It may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. A liquid secondary market may not exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses.. Furthermore, upon the bankruptcy of a counterparty, we may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery under the derivative contract in a dissolution, assignment for the benefit of creditors, liquidation, winding-up, bankruptcy, or other analogous proceeding. In addition, in the event of the insolvency of a counterparty to a derivative transaction, the derivative transaction would typically be terminated at its fair market value. If we are owed this fair market value in the termination of the derivative transaction and these claims are unsecured, we will be treated as general creditors of such counterparty, and will not have any claim with respect to the underlying security. We may obtain only a limited recovery or may obtain no recovery in such circumstances and the enforceability of agreements for hedging transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements.. Our failure to meet market expectations could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.. We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects market expectations for our future operating results. Any failure to meet, or delay in meeting, these expectations, including our comparable store sales growth rates, gross margin, earnings and earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our stock repurchase policies."
