[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Prices of oil and natural gas fluctuate, and lower prices could reduce proceeds to the trust and cash distributions to unitholders.. The reserves attributable to the underlying properties and quarterly cash distributions of the trust are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of oil and natural gas. Prices of oil and natural gas can fluctuate widely on a quarter-to-quarter basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the trust and VOC Brazos. These factors include, among others:. <U+0095> regional, domestic and foreign supply and perceptions of supply of oil and natural gas;    <U+0095> the level of demand and perceptions of demand for oil and natural gas;    <U+0095> political conditions or hostilities in oil and natural gas producing regions, such as the recent geopolitical turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East;    <U+0095> anticipated future prices of oil and natural gas and other commodities;    <U+0095> weather conditions and seasonal trends;    <U+0095> technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply;    <U+0095> U.S. and worldwide economic conditions;    <U+0095> the price and availability of alternative fuels;    <U+0095> the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities;    <U+0095> the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials;    <U+0095> governmental regulations and taxation;    <U+0095> energy conservation and environmental measures; and    <U+0095> acts of force majeure.. Crude oil prices have been volatile the last several years and in 2017, ranged from a high of $60.42 to a low of $42.53. The NYMEX crude oil spot prices per Bbl were $37.04, $53.72 and $60.42 as of December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. Neither VOC Brazos nor the trust can predict the timing or the duration of any economic cycle and, depending on the prices realized, the operating results of VOC Brazos and the financial condition of the trust could be materially and adversely affected.. 29. Table of Contents. Lower prices of oil and natural gas will reduce the amount of the net proceeds to which the trust is entitled and may ultimately reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that is economic to produce from the underlying properties. As a result, the operator of any of the underlying properties could determine during periods of low commodity prices to shut in or curtail production from wells on the underlying properties. In addition, the operator of the underlying properties could determine during periods of low commodity prices to plug and abandon marginal wells that otherwise may have been allowed to continue to produce for a longer period under conditions of higher prices. Specifically, VOC Brazos may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce oil or natural gas in commercially paying quantities. This could result in termination of the net profits interest relating to the abandoned well or property. In making such decisions, VOC Brazos and any transferee will be required under the applicable conveyance to operate, or to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the operators of the underlying properties to operate, these properties as would a reasonably prudent operator, acting with respect to its own properties (without regard to the existence of the net profits interest). Because substantially all the underlying properties are located in mature fields, decreases in commodity prices could have a more significant effect on the economic viability of these properties compared to more recently discovered properties. The commodity price sensitivity of these mature wells is due to a variety of factors that vary from well-to-well, including the additional costs associated with water handling and disposal, chemicals, surface equipment maintenance, downhole casing repairs and reservoir pressure maintenance activities that are necessary to maintain production. As a result, the volatility of commodity prices may cause the amount of future cash distributions to trust unitholders to fluctuate, and a substantial decline in the price of oil or natural gas will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the trust unitholders. The volatility of commodity prices also reduces the accuracy of estimates of future cash distributions to trust unitholders.. Actual reserves and future production may be less than current estimates of proved reserves, which could reduce cash distributions by the trust and the value of the trust units.. The value of the trust units and the amount of future cash distributions to the trust unitholders will depend upon, among other things, the accuracy of the reserves and future production estimated to be attributable to the underlying properties and the net profits interest. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil and natural gas in an exact manner, and estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production and revenues for the underlying properties could vary negatively and in material amounts from estimates. Furthermore, development expenditures and production costs relating to the underlying properties could be higher than current estimates. Petroleum engineers are required to make subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas based on factors and assumptions that include:. <U+0095> historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas;    <U+0095> oil and natural gas prices, production levels, Btu content, production expenses, transportation costs, severance and excise taxes and development expenditures; and    <U+0095> the effect of expected governmental regulation.. Changes in these assumptions and amounts of actual production and development costs could materially decrease reserve estimates.. The processes of drilling and completing wells are high risk activities.. The processes of drilling and completing wells are subject to numerous risks beyond the trust's and VOC Brazos' control, including risks that could delay VOC Brazos' current drilling schedule and the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil production. VOC Brazos is not obligated to undertake any development activities, so any drilling and completion activities will be subject to the. 30. Table of Contents. reasonable discretion of VOC Brazos. Furthermore, VOC Brazos' future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance its share of planned development expenditures could be materially and adversely affected by any factor that may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following:. <U+0095> delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements, including permitting;    <U+0095> unusual or unexpected geological formations;    <U+0095> shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel;    <U+0095> equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents;    <U+0095> unexpected operational events and drilling conditions;    <U+0095> reductions in oil or natural gas prices;    <U+0095> market limitations for oil or natural gas;    <U+0095> pipe or cement failures;    <U+0095> casing collapses;    <U+0095> lost or damaged drilling and service tools;    <U+0095> loss of drilling fluid circulation;    <U+0095> uncontrollable flows of oil and natural gas;    <U+0095> fires and natural disasters;    <U+0095> environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases;     <U+0095> adverse weather conditions; and    <U+0095> oil or natural gas property title problems.. In the event that drilling of development wells is delayed or cancelled, or development wells have lower than anticipated production, due to one or more of the factors above or for any other reason, estimated future distributions to trust unitholders may be reduced.. Risks associated with the production, gathering, transportation and sale of oil and natural gas could adversely affect cash distributions by the trust.. The amount of cash to be received by the trust from VOC Brazos with respect to the net profits interest, the value of the trust units and the amount of cash distributions to the trust unitholders will depend upon, among other things, oil and natural gas production and prices and the costs incurred by VOC Brazos to develop and produce oil and natural gas reserves attributable to the underlying properties. Drilling, production or transportation accidents as well as adverse weather conditions that temporarily or permanently halt the production and sale of oil or natural gas at any of the underlying properties will reduce trust distributions by reducing the amount of net proceeds received by the trust and available for distribution. For example, accidents may occur that result in personal injuries, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment and environmental damages. To the extent VOC Brazos is not able to recover from insurance any costs incurred by VOC Brazos in connection with any such accidents, the net proceeds available for distribution to the trust may be reduced or delayed. In addition, curtailments or damage to pipelines used by VOC Brazos to transport oil and natural gas production to markets for sale could reduce the amount of net proceeds received by the trust and available for distribution. Any such curtailment or damage to the gathering systems used. 31. Table of Contents. by VOC Brazos could also require VOC Brazos to find alternative means to transport the oil and natural gas production from the underlying properties, which could require VOC Brazos to incur additional costs that will have the effect of reducing net proceeds received by the trust and available for distribution.. Production of oil and natural gas on the underlying properties could be materially and adversely affected by severe or unseasonable weather.. Production of oil and natural gas on the underlying properties could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:. <U+0095> evacuation of personnel and curtailment of operations;    <U+0095> weather-related damage to drilling rigs or other facilities, resulting in suspension of operations;    <U+0095> inability to deliver materials to worksites; and    <U+0095> weather-related damage to pipelines and other transportation facilities.. VOC Brazos does not have any long term contracts related to the sale of production of oil and natural gas from the underlying properties and may be unable to find purchasers.. VOC Brazos does not have any firm commitment contracts for the sale of any production nor has it received security or other guaranty of payment for the production it sells. Therefore, there can be no assurance that VOC Brazos will be able to find buyers for its production, that buyers will pay the purchase price therefor or that the price at which the production is sold will be the current market price for such hydrocarbons at the time of delivery. During the year ended December 31, 2017, VOC Brazos sold approximately 38% of the oil produced from the underlying properties to MV Purchasing LLC, an affiliate of VOC Brazos. Any nonpayment by a purchaser of production, including MV Purchasing LLC, or inability by VOC Brazos to sell any production, could reduce cash available for distribution to trust unitholders.. Neither the trust nor the trust's unitholders have the ability to influence VOC Brazos or control the operations or development of the underlying properties.. The trust and the trust's unitholders have no voting rights with respect to VOC Brazos and therefore have no managerial, contractual or other ability to influence VOC Brazos' activities or the operations of the underlying properties. Oil and natural gas properties are typically managed pursuant to an operating agreement among the working interest owners of oil and natural gas properties. Vess Oil Corporation operates, or operates on a contract basis, substantially all of the underlying properties. The typical operating agreement contains procedures whereby the owners of the working interests in the property designate one of the interest owners to be the operator of the property. Under these arrangements, the operator is typically responsible for making all decisions relating to drilling activities, sale of production, compliance with regulatory requirements and other matters that affect the property.. Shortages or increases in costs of equipment, services and qualified personnel could result in a reduction in the amount of cash available for distribution to the trust unitholders.. The demand for qualified and experienced personnel to conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. Shortages of field personnel and equipment or price increases could significantly decrease the amount of cash received by the trust and available for distribution to the trust unitholders or restrict the ability of VOC Brazos to drill the development wells and conduct the operations which it currently has planned for the underlying properties.. 32. Table of Contents. The trust units may lose value as a result of title deficiencies with respect to the underlying properties.. VOC Brazos acquired the underlying properties over the past 30 years. The existence of a material title deficiency with respect to the underlying properties could reduce the value of a property or render it worthless, thus adversely affecting the net profits interest and distributions to trust unitholders. VOC Brazos does not obtain title insurance covering mineral leaseholds, and VOC Brazos' failure to cure any title defects may cause VOC Brazos to lose its rights to production from the underlying properties. In the event of any such material title problem, proceeds available for distribution to trust unitholders and the value of the trust units may be reduced.. VOC Brazos may transfer all or a portion of the underlying properties at any time without trust unitholder consent, subject to specified limitations.. VOC Brazos may at any time transfer all or part of the underlying properties, subject to and burdened by the net profits interest, and may abandon individual wells or properties that it reasonably believes would no longer produce oil or natural gas in commercially paying quantities. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, VOC Brazos plugged and abandoned 14, 13 and 11 wells, respectively, located on leases on the underlying properties. Trust unitholders will not be entitled to vote on any transfer of the underlying properties, and the trust will not receive any proceeds from any such transfer, except in certain limited circumstances when the net profits interest is released in connection with such transfer, in which case the trust will receive an amount equal to the fair market value (net of sales costs) of the net profits interest released. Following any sale or transfer of any of the underlying properties, if the net profits interest is not released in connection with such sale or transfer, the net profits interest will continue to burden the transferred property and net proceeds attributable to such property will be calculated as part of the computation of net proceeds described in this Form 10-K. VOC Brazos may delegate to the transferee responsibility for all of VOC Brazos' obligations relating to the net profits interest on the portion of the underlying properties transferred.. In addition, VOC Brazos may, without the consent of the trust unitholders, require the trust to release the net profits interest associated with any lease that accounts for less than or equal to 0.25% of the total production from the underlying properties in the prior 12 months and provided that the net profits interest covered by such releases cannot exceed, during any 12-month period, an aggregate fair market value to the trust of $500,000. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by VOC Brazos of the relevant underlying properties and are conditioned upon the trust's receiving an amount equal to the fair market value to the trust of such net profits interest. Any net sales proceeds paid to the trust will be distributable to trust unitholders for the quarter in which they are received. Net sales proceeds of $0 and $0 were paid to the trust during 2016 and 2017 for its share of interest in certain underlying properties that were sold in 2016 and 2017, respectively. VOC Brazos has not identified any of the underlying properties for sale as of December 31, 2017.. The reserves attributable to the underlying properties are depleting assets and production from those properties will diminish over time. Furthermore, the trust is precluded from acquiring other oil and natural gas properties or net profits interests to replace the depleting assets and production.. The net proceeds payable to the trust attributable to the net profits interests are derived from the sale of production of oil and natural gas from the underlying properties. The reserves attributable to the underlying properties are depleting assets, which means that the reserves and the quantity of oil and natural gas produced from the underlying properties will decline over time. Furthermore, over approximately 90% of the estimated oil recovery attributable to the underlying properties has already been extracted from the producing wells located on the underlying properties. Based on the estimated production volumes in the reserve report as of December 31, 2017, the oil and natural gas production from proved reserves attributable to the underlying properties is projected to decline at an average rate of approximately 6.6% per year over the next 20 years, assuming the level of development drilling and. 33. Table of Contents. development expenditures on the underlying properties disclosed elsewhere in this Form 10-K through 2020 and none thereafter. Actual decline rates may vary from this projected decline rate. In the event expected future development is delayed, reduced or cancelled, the average rate of decline will likely exceed 6.6% per year.. The trust agreement provides that the trust's activities are limited to owning the net profits interest and any activity reasonably related to such ownership, including activities required or permitted by the terms of the conveyance. As a result, the trust is not permitted to acquire other oil and natural gas properties or net profits interests to replace the depleting assets and production attributable to the net profits interest.. Because the net proceeds payable to the trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets, the portion of the distributions to unitholders attributable to depletion may be considered to have the effect of a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Eventually, the underlying properties burdened by the net profits interest may cease to produce in commercially paying quantities and the trust may, therefore, cease to receive any distributions of net proceeds therefrom.. The amount of cash available for distribution by the trust will be reduced by the amount of any costs and expenses related to the underlying properties and other costs and expenses incurred by the trust.. The net profits interest will bear its share of all costs and expenses related to the underlying properties, such as lease operating expenses, production and property taxes and development expenses, which will reduce the amount of cash received by the trust and thereafter distributable to trust unitholders. Accordingly, higher costs and expenses related to the underlying properties will directly decrease the amount of cash received by the trust in respect of its net profits interest. Historical costs may not be indicative of future costs. In addition, cash available for distribution by the trust will be further reduced by the trust's general and administrative expenses.. If production and development costs on the underlying properties together with the other costs exceed gross proceeds of production from the underlying properties, the trust will not receive net proceeds from those properties until future gross proceeds from production exceed the total of the excess costs, plus accrued interest. If the trust does not receive net proceeds pursuant to the net profits interest, or if such net proceeds are reduced, the trust will not be able to distribute cash to the trust unitholders, or such cash distributions will be reduced, respectively. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay the costs.. A purchaser's failure to pay VOC Brazos for purchased production could have a significant adverse impact on VOC Brazos, which in turn could result in VOC Brazos not having sufficient net proceeds attributable to the net profits interest for VOC Brazos to distribute cash to the trust.. A purchaser's failure to pay for purchased production could have a significant adverse impact on VOC Brazos' business, which could in turn impact the trust. The recent tightening of credit in the financial markets may make it more difficult for purchasers to obtain financing and depending on the degree to which this occurs, there may be a material increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by such purchasers.. The trustee may, under certain circumstances, sell the net profits interest and dissolve the trust prior to the expected termination of the trust. As a result, trust unitholders may not recover their investment.. The trustee must sell the net profits interest if the holders of a majority of the trust units approve the sale or vote to dissolve the trust. The trustee must also sell the net profits interest if the annual gross proceeds from the underlying properties attributable to the net profits interest are less than $1.0 million for each of any two consecutive years. The sale of the net profits interest will result in the dissolution of the trust. The net proceeds of any such sale will be distributed to the trust unitholders.. 34. Table of Contents. The disposal by an affiliate of VOC Brazos of its remaining trust units may reduce the market price of the trust units.. As of the date this Form 10-K, an affiliate of VOC Brazos, VOC Partners, LLC, owned 25% of the outstanding trust units. VOC Partners, LLC may use some or all of the remaining trust units it owns for a number of business purposes, including:. <U+0095> selling them for cash; and    <U+0095> exchanging them for interests in oil and natural gas properties or securities of oil and natural gas companies.. If it sells additional trust units or exchanges trust units in connection with acquisitions, then additional trust units will be available for sale in the market. The sale of additional trust units may reduce the market price of the trust units. The trust has entered into a registration rights agreement with VOC Partners, LLC pursuant to which the trust has agreed to file a registration statement or a shelf registration statement to register the resale of the remaining trust units held by VOC Partners, LLC and any transferee of the trust units upon request by such holders. See \"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence - Registration Rights.\". The market price for the trust units may not reflect the value of the net profits interest held by the trust.. The trading price for publicly traded securities similar to the trust units tends to be tied to recent and expected levels of cash distributions. The amounts available for distribution by the trust will vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the trust, including prevailing prices for sales of oil and natural gas production from the underlying properties and the timing and amount of production and development costs. Consequently, the trading price for the trust units may not necessarily be indicative of the value that the trust would realize if it sold the net profits interest to a third-party buyer. In addition, such market price may not necessarily reflect the fact that since the assets of the trust are depleting assets, a portion of each cash distribution paid on the trust units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. As a result, distributions made to a trust unitholder over the life of these depleting assets may not equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the trust unitholder.. Conflicts of interest could arise between VOC Brazos and its affiliates, on the one hand, and the trust and the trust unitholders, on the other hand.. As working interest owners in, and operators of substantially all the wells on, the underlying properties, VOC Brazos and its affiliates could have interests that conflict with the interests of the trust and the trust unitholders. For example:. <U+0095> VOC Brazos' interests may conflict with those of the trust and the trust unitholders in situations involving the development, maintenance, operation or abandonment of the underlying properties. VOC Brazos may also make decisions with respect to development expenditures that adversely affect the underlying properties. These decisions include reducing development expenditures on these properties, which could cause oil and natural gas production to decline at a faster rate and thereby result in lower cash distributions by the trust in the future.    <U+0095> VOC Brazos may sell some or all of the underlying properties without taking into consideration the interests of the trust unitholders. Such sales may not be in the best interests of the trust unitholders. These purchasers may lack VOC Brazos' experience or its credit worthiness. VOC Brazos also has the right, under certain limited circumstances, to cause the trust to release all or a portion of the net profits interest in connection with a sale of a portion of the underlying properties to which such net profits interest relates.. 35. Table of Contents. <U+0095> MV Purchasing LLC, an affiliate of VOC Brazos, is expected to market and/or purchase a substantial portion of the oil produced from the underlying properties, and it is expected to profit from this arrangement. Provisions in the net profits interest conveyance, however, require that charges and other terms under contracts with affiliates of VOC Brazos be comparable to prices and other terms prevailing in the area for similar services or sales. During the year ended December 31, 2017, VOC Brazos sold approximately 38% of the oil produced from the underlying properties to MV Purchasing, LLC.    <U+0095> VOC Partners, LLC has registration rights and can sell its trust units without considering the effects such sale may have on trust unit prices or on the trust itself. In addition, VOC Partners, LLC can vote its trust units in its sole discretion without considering the interests of the other trust unitholders.. The trust is managed by a trustee who cannot be replaced except by a majority vote of the trust unitholders at a special meeting, which may make it difficult for trust unitholders to remove or replace the trustee.. The business and affairs of the trust are managed by the trustee. The voting rights of a trust unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of trust unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the trustee. The trust agreement provides that the trustee may only be removed and replaced by the holders of a majority of the outstanding trust units, including trust units held by VOC Partners, LLC, at a special meeting of trust unitholders called by either the trustee or the holders of not less than 10% of the outstanding trust units. As a result, it will be difficult for public unitholders to remove or replace the trustee without the cooperation of VOC Partners, LLC as long as it holds a significant percentage of total trust units.. Trust unitholders have limited ability to enforce provisions of the net profits interest, and VOC Brazos' liability to the trust is limited.. The trust agreement permits the trustee to sue VOC Brazos or any other future owner of the underlying properties to enforce the terms of the conveyance creating the net profits interest. If the trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the conveyance, trust unitholders' recourse would be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the trustee to compel the trustee to take specified actions. The trust agreement expressly limits a trust unitholder's ability to directly sue VOC Brazos or any other third party other than the trustee. As a result, trust unitholders will not be able to sue VOC Brazos or any future owner of the underlying properties to enforce these rights. Furthermore, the net profits interest conveyance provides that, except as set forth in the conveyance, VOC Brazos will not be liable to the trust for the manner in which it performs its duties in operating the underlying properties as long as it acts without gross negligence or willful misconduct.. Courts outside of Delaware may not recognize the limited liability of the trust unitholders provided under Delaware law.. Under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, trust unitholders are entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of corporations under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Courts in jurisdictions outside of Delaware, however, may not give effect to such limitation.. 36. Table of Contents. The operations of the underlying properties are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may result in significant costs and liabilities, which could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to trust unitholders.. The oil and natural gas exploration and production operations of VOC Brazos are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that apply to VOC Brazos' operations, including the requirement to obtain a permit before conducting drilling, waste disposal or other regulated activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentrations of materials that can be released into the environment; the incurrence of significant development expenditures to install pollution or safety-related controls at the operated facilities; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state environmental and oil and gas agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of VOC Brazos' operations. Furthermore, the inability to comply with environmental laws and regulations in a cost effective manner, such as removal and disposal of produced water and other generated oil and gas wastes, could impair VOC Brazos' ability to produce oil and natural gas commercially from the underlying properties, which would reduce proceeds attributable to the net profits interest.. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of VOC Brazos' operations as a result of its handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, air emissions and wastewater discharges related to its operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, VOC Brazos could be subject to joint and several strict liability for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether VOC Brazos was responsible for the release or contamination or whether the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which VOC Brazos' wells are drilled and facilities where VOC Brazos' petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. In addition, the risk of accidental spills or releases could expose VOC Brazos to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly operational control requirements or waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require VOC Brazos to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. VOC Brazos may be unable to recover some or any of these costs from insurance, in which case the amount of cash received by the trust may be decreased. The net profits interest held by the trust will bear 80% of all costs and expenses incurred by VOC Brazos in regard to environmental costs and liabilities associated with the underlying properties, including costs and liabilities resulting from conditions that existed prior to VOC Brazos' acquisition of the underlying properties unless such costs and expenses result from VOC Brazos' gross negligence or willful misconduct. In addition, as a result of the increased cost of compliance, VOC Brazos may decide to discontinue drilling.. 37. Table of Contents. The operations of the underlying properties are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting its operations or expose VOC Brazos to significant liabilities, which could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to trust unitholders.. The production and development operations on the underlying properties are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct its operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, VOC Brazos must obtain and maintain numerous permits, drilling bonds, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities and engage in extensive reporting. VOC Brazos may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations, and the net profits interest will bear its share of these costs. In addition, VOC Brazos' costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to VOC Brazos' operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on VOC Brazos' business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the amount of cash received by the trust in respect of the net profits interest, VOC Brazos must also comply with laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and market manipulations in energy markets. To the extent VOC Brazos is a shipper on interstate pipelines, it must comply with the tariffs of such pipelines and with federal policies related to the use of interstate capacity, and such compliance costs will be borne indirectly in part by the trust.. Laws and regulations governing exploration and production may also affect production levels. VOC Brazos is required to comply with federal and state laws and regulations governing conservation matters, including: provisions related to the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties; the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells; the spacing of wells; the plugging and abandonment of wells; and the removal of related production equipment. These and other laws and regulations can limit the amount of oil and natural gas VOC Brazos can produce from its wells, limit the number of wells it can drill, or limit the locations at which it can conduct drilling operations, which in turn could negatively impact trust distributions, estimated and actual future net revenues to the trust and estimates of reserves attributable to the trust's interests.. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations, may unfavorably impact VOC Brazos, could result in increased operating costs or have a material adverse effect on VOC Brazos' financial condition and results of operations and reduce the amount of cash received by the trust. These and other potential regulations could increase the operating costs of the underlying properties, reduce VOC Brazos' liquidity, delay VOC Brazos' operations or otherwise alter the way VOC Brazos conducts its business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the net profits interest and the trust's cash flows.. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that VOC Brazos produces while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt VOC Brazos' production and cause VOC Brazos to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. The oil and gas industry is a direct source of certain greenhouse gases, or \"GHG,\" emissions, namely carbon dioxide and methane, and future restrictions on such emissions could impact our future operations. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climate changes. Based on these findings, the agency adopted regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. However, more recently EPA announced that it will reconsider the current standards and issued a proposal to stay certain portions of the current rules. The future implementation of these rules is uncertain at this time, but could affect VOC Brazos' operations and its ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities.. 38. Table of Contents. In addition, almost half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These reductions would be expected to cause the cost of allowances to escalate significantly over time. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise limits emissions of GHGs from VOC Brazos' equipment and operations could require VOC Brazos to incur costs to monitor and report on GHG emissions or reduce emissions of GHGs associated with its operations, and such requirements also could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas produced, all of which could reduce proceeds attributable to the net profits interest and, as a result, the trust's cash available for distribution.. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on VOC Brazos' assets and operations and, consequently, may reduce the proceeds attributable to the net profits interest and, as a result, the trust's cash available for distribution.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays as well as adversely affect VOC Brazos' services.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. The EPA finalized a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities in December 2016, finding that under certain circumstances the \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing could impact drinking water resources. Some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict or impose additional requirements relating to hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. If hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, VOC Brazos' fracturing activities could become subject to additional permit requirements or operational restrictions and also to associated permitting delays and potential increases in costs. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict or otherwise impact hydraulic fracturing are passed by Congress or adopted in Texas or Kansas such legal requirements could make it more difficult or costly for VOC Brazos to perform hydraulic fracturing activities and thereby affect the determination of whether a well is commercially viable. More recently, the injection of water produced as a result of hydraulic fracturing has been associated with seismic activity leading to restrictions on injection in some areas. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing and disposal of water from such production could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that VOC Brazos is ultimately able to produce in commercially paying quantities from the underlying properties.. The bankruptcy of VOC Brazos or any operator of the underlying properties could impede the operation of the wells and the development of the proved undeveloped reserves.. VOC Brazos is a privately-held limited partnership engaged in the production and development of oil and natural gas from properties located in Kansas and Texas. VOC Brazos intends to implement a development and workover program, including the expenditure through 2021 of approximately $22.4 million to drill additional wells and recomplete and workover other wells. Without this development and workover program, the average decline rate over the life of the trust of the oil and natural gas production from the proved reserves attributable to the underlying properties will likely. 39. Table of Contents. exceed the 6.6% per year projected in the reserve report. The operator of substantially all of the underlying properties is a privately-held corporation engaged in the operation of oil and natural gas wells in Kansas and Texas. Therefore, the value of the net profits interest and the trust's ultimate cash available for distribution will be highly dependent on the financial condition of VOC Brazos and the operator. None of VOC Brazos or the operator is a reporting company or files periodic reports with the SEC. Therefore, trust unitholders do not have access to financial information about VOC Brazos or the operator. Furthermore, neither VOC Brazos nor the operator has agreed with the trust to maintain a certain net worth or to be restricted by other similar covenants.. The ability of VOC Brazos to develop the underlying properties and the ability of the operator to operate the wells on the underlying properties depends on the future financial condition and economic performance and access to capital of VOC Brazos and the operator, which in turn will depend upon the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of VOC Brazos and the operator.. In the event of the bankruptcy of VOC Brazos or the operator, the trust would have to seek a new party to perform the development and workover program or the operations of the wells operated by such operator. The trust may not be able to find a replacement driller or operator, and it may not be able to enter into a new agreement with such replacement party on favorable terms within a reasonable period of time. As a result, such a bankruptcy may result in reduced production from the reserves and decreased distributions to trust unitholders.. The trust may be treated as an unsecured creditor with respect to the net profits interest attributable to properties in Kansas in the event of the bankruptcy of VOC Brazos if a court were to hold that the conveyance and recording of the net profits interest was not a conveyance of a fully vested real property interest or an interest in hydrocarbons in place or to be produced.. VOC Brazos and the trust believe that the recording in the appropriate real property records in Kansas of the net profits interest should constitute the conveyance of a fully vested real property interest, interests in hydrocarbons in place or to be produced or a production payment as such is defined under the United States Bankruptcy Code. In a bankruptcy of VOC Brazos, creditors of VOC Brazos would be able to claim the net profits interest as an asset of the bankruptcy estate to satisfy obligations to them if the conveyance of the net profits interest did not constitute the conveyance of a real property interest or interests in hydrocarbons in place or to be produced under applicable state law or a production payment, in which case the trust would be an unsecured creditor of VOC Brazos at risk of losing the entire value of the net profits interest to senior creditors.. Due to lack of geographic diversification of the underlying properties, adverse developments in Kansas or Texas could adversely impact the results of operations and cash flows of the underlying properties and reduce the amount of cash available for distributions to trust unitholders.. The operations of the underlying properties are focused on the production and development of oil and natural gas within the states of Kansas and Texas. As a result, the results of operations and cash flows of the underlying properties depend upon continuing operations in these areas. Due to the lack of diversification in geographic location, adverse developments in exploration and production of oil and natural gas in either of these areas of operation could have a significantly greater impact on the results of operations and cash flows of the underlying properties than if the operations were more diversified.. 40. Table of Contents. The trust has not requested a ruling from the IRS regarding the tax treatment of ownership of the trust units. If the IRS were to determine (and be sustained in that determination) that the trust is not a \"grantor trust\" for federal income tax purposes, or that the net profits interest is not properly treated as a production payment (and thus would fail to qualify as a debt instrument) for federal income tax purposes, the trust unitholders may receive different and potentially less advantageous tax treatment than expected.. If the trust were not treated as a grantor trust for federal income tax purposes, the trust should be treated as a partnership for such purposes. Although the trust would not become subject to federal income taxation at the entity level as a result of treatment as a partnership, and items of income, gain, loss and deduction would flow through to the trust unitholders, the trust's tax reporting requirements would be more complex and costly to implement and maintain, and its distributions to trust unitholders could be reduced as a result.. If the net profits interest were not treated as a production payment (and thus would fail to qualify as a debt instrument for federal income tax purposes) the amount, timing and character of income, gain, or loss in respect of an investment in the trust could be affected.. Neither VOC Brazos nor the trustee has requested a ruling from the IRS regarding these tax questions, and neither VOC Brazos nor the trust can provide assurance that such a ruling would be granted if requested or that the IRS will not challenge these positions on audit."
