[1] "ITEM  1A. RISK FACTORS. Our businesses face significant risks. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below occur, our businesses, results of operations and/or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition to those described below, our businesses may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial.. Risks Relating to Our Industry. Our results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance and reinsurance industry.. The results of companies in the property casualty insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties in demand and pricing, causing cyclical changes in the insurance and reinsurance industry. The demand for insurance is influenced primarily by general economic conditions, while the supply of insurance is often directly related to available capacity or the perceived profitability of the business. In recent years, we have faced increased competition in our business, as a result of new entrants and existing insurers seeking to gain market share, resulting in decreased premium rates and less favorable contract terms and conditions for certain lines of business. The adequacy of premium rates is affected mainly by the severity and frequency of claims, which are influenced by many factors, including natural disasters, regulatory measures and court decisions that define and expand the extent of coverage and the effects of economic inflation on the amount of compensation due for injuries or losses. In addition, investment rates of return have impacted rate adequacy, with interest rates remaining at or near historic lows. These factors can have a significant impact on ultimate profitability because a property casualty insurance policy is priced before its costs are known as premiums usually are determined long before claims are reported. These factors could produce results that would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. We face significant competitive pressures in our businesses, which have reduced premium rates in certain areas and could harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and premium volume.. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. We compete, and will continue to compete, with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and reinsurers, other regional companies, as well as mutual companies, specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and diversified financial services companies. Competitiveness in our businesses is based on many factors, including premium charges, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, commissions paid to producers, the perceived financial strength of the company, other terms and conditions offered, services provided (including ease of doing business over the internet), speed of claims payment and reputation and experience in the lines to be written. In recent years, the insurance industry has undergone increasing consolidation, which may further increase competition.. Some of our competitors, particularly in the Reinsurance business, have greater financial and/or marketing resources than we do. These competitors within the reinsurance segment include Swiss Re, Munich Re, Berkshire Hathaway, Transatlantic Reinsurance, and Partner Re. We expect that perceived financial strength, in particular, will become more important as customers seek high quality reinsurers.. Over the past several years, we have faced increased competition in our business, as increased supply has led to reduced prices and, at times, less favorable terms and conditions. Our E&S operating units have also encountered competition from admitted companies seeking to increase market share. Although insurance prices have generally increased for most lines of business since 2011, the rate of increase has declined in more recent years. Loss costs have also increased over that period of time. With the low level of interest rates available, current price levels for certain lines of business remain below the prices required for us to achieve our long-term return objectives. We expect to continue to face strong competition in these and our other lines of business and as a result pressure on pricing and policy terms and conditions.. In recent years, various institutional investors have increasingly sought to participate in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries. Well-capitalized new entrants to the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries, or existing competitors that receive substantial infusions of capital, provide increasing competition, which may adversely impact our business and profitability. Further, an expanded supply of reinsurance capital may lower costs for insurers that rely on reinsurance and, as a consequence, those insurers may be able to price their products more competitively.  In addition, technology companies or other third parties have created, and may in the future create, digitally-enabled business models, platforms or alternate distribution channels that may adversely impact our competitive position.. This intense competition could cause the supply and/or demand for insurance or reinsurance to change, which affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates and retain existing business or write new products at adequate rates or on terms and conditions acceptable to us. If we are unable to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates or on terms and conditions acceptable to us, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 18. Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, which may require us to establish additional reserves.. Our gross reserves for losses and loss expenses were approximately $11.7 billion as of December 31, 2017. Our loss reserves reflect our best estimates of the cost of settling claims and related expenses with respect to insured events that have occurred.. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what management expects the ultimate settlement and claims administration will cost for claims that have occurred, whether known or unknown. The major assumptions about anticipated loss emergence patterns are subject to unanticipated fluctuation. These estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on management's assessment of facts and circumstances then known, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency, inflation, judicial theories of liability, reinsurance coverage, legislative changes and other factors, including the actions of third parties, which are beyond our control.. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities, where long periods of time elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made and settlement is reached. In periods with increased economic volatility, it becomes more difficult to accurately predict claim costs. It is especially difficult to estimate the impact of inflation on loss reserves given the current economic environment and related government actions. Both inflation overall and medical cost inflation, which has historically been greater than inflation overall, can have an adverse impact.. Reserve estimates are continually refined in an ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed. Because setting reserves is inherently uncertain, we cannot assure that our current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events. Should we need to increase our reserves, our pre-tax income for the reporting period would decrease by a corresponding amount.. We discount our reserves for excess and assumed workers' compensation business because of the long period of time over which losses are paid. Discounting is intended to appropriately match losses and loss expenses to income earned on investment securities supporting liabilities. The expected loss and loss expense payout pattern subject to discounting is derived from our loss payout experience. Changes in the loss and loss expense payout pattern are recorded in the period they are determined. If the actual loss payout pattern is shorter than anticipated, the discount will be reduced and pre-tax income will decrease by a corresponding amount.. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.. As industry practices and economic, legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to:. • judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability;. • plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices;. • medical developments that link health issues to particular causes, resulting in liability claims; and. • claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies, including cyber security related risks;    and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions.. In some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known until many years after the policies are issued.. In addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business.. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are difficult to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. As a property casualty insurer, we face losses from natural and man-made catastrophes.. Property casualty insurers are subject to claims arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on their results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Catastrophe losses have had a significant impact on our results. For example, catastrophe losses net of reinsurance recoveries were $184 million in 2017, $105 million in 2016, $58 million in 2015, $87 million in 2014 and $65 million in 2013. Similarly, man-made catastrophes can also have a material impact on our financial results.. 19. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, tsunamis, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather and fires, as well as terrorist and other man-made activities, including drilling, mining and other industrial accidents, cyber events or terrorist activities. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Some catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and other disasters may produce significant damage in large, heavily populated areas. Catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of our property and casualty lines, and most of our past catastrophe-related claims have resulted from severe storms. Seasonal weather variations or the impact of climate change may affect the severity and frequency of our losses. Insurance companies are not permitted to reserve for a catastrophe until it has occurred. It is therefore possible that a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could produce significant losses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Changing climate conditions may increase the frequency and severity of catastrophic events and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results.. Over the past several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions, such as global warming, appear to have contributed to the unpredictability, frequency and severity of natural disasters and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures.  There is a growing scientific consensus that global warming and other climate change are increasing the frequency and severity of catastrophic weather  events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, floods and other natural disasters.  Such changes make it more difficult for us to predict and model catastrophic events, reducing our ability to accurately price our exposure to such events and mitigate our risks. Any increase in the frequency or severity of natural disasters may adversely affect our financial condition and results.. We, as a primary insurer, may have significant exposure for terrorist acts.. To the extent an act of terrorism, whether a domestic or foreign act, is certified by the Secretary of Treasury, we may be covered under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (\"TRIPRA\"), for up to 83% of our losses for certain property/casualty lines of insurance. However, any such coverage would be subject to a mandatory deductible based on 20% of earned premium for the prior year for the covered lines of commercial property and casualty insurance. Based on our 2017 earned premiums, our aggregate deductible under TRIPRA during 2018 is approximately $948 million. TRIPRA is currently in effect through December 31, 2020. In addition, the coverage provided under TRIPRA does not apply to reinsurance that we write.. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which increases our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business.. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. This system of regulation, generally administered in the United States by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, relates to, among other things:. • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements;. • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments;. • requirements pertaining to certain methods of accounting;. • evaluating enterprise risk to an insurer;. • rate and form regulation pertaining to certain of our insurance businesses;. • potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies; and. • involvement in the payment or adjudication of catastrophe or other claims beyond the terms of the policies.. State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. Our Insurance business internationally is also generally subject to a similar regulatory scheme in each of the jurisdictions where we conduct operations outside the United States.. Federal financial services modernization legislation and legislative and regulatory initiatives taken or which may be taken in response to conditions in the financial markets, global insurance supervision and other factors may lead to additional federal regulation of the insurance industry in the coming years.. The Dodd-Frank Act effected sweeping changes to financial services regulation in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act established the Financial Stability Oversight Council (\"FSOC\"), which is authorized to recommend that certain. 20. systemically significant non-bank financial companies, including insurance companies, be regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. The Dodd-Frank Act also established a Federal Insurance Office (\"FIO\") which is authorized to study, monitor and report to Congress on the U.S. insurance industry and the significance of global reinsurance to the U.S. insurance market. The FIO also can recommend to the FSOC that it designate an insurer as an entity posing risks to the United States financial stability in the event of the insurer's material financial distress or failure. The potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the U.S. insurance business is not clear. Our business could be affected by changes, whether as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act or otherwise, to the U.S. system of insurance regulation or our designation or the designation of insurers or reinsurers with which we do business as systemically significant non-bank financial companies.. One insurance group is subject to Federal Reserve supervision and heightened prudential standards as a systematically significant financial institution.. The current administration and the Republican party have expressed their desire to amend the Dodd-Frank Act. On June 8, 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Financial CHOICE Act of 2017, which proposes to amend or repeal various sections of the Dodd-Frank Act. This proposed legislation is under consideration by the U.S. Senate. We are not able to predict whether any such proposal to amend or repeal certain sections of the Dodd-Frank Act would have a material effect on our business operations and cannot identify the risks, if any, that may be posed to our businesses as a result of changes to, or legislative replacements for, the Dodd-Frank Act.. Although state regulation is the primary form of regulation of insurance and reinsurance in the United States, in addition to the changes brought about by the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress has considered various proposals relating to the creation of an optional federal charter, repeal of the insurance company antitrust exemption from the McCarran-Ferguson Act, and tax law changes. We may be subject to potentially increased federal oversight as a financial institution. In addition, the current administration and the volatile political environment may increase the chance of other federal legislative and regulatory changes that could affect us in ways we cannot predict.. With respect to international measures, Solvency II, the EU regime concerning the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers and reinsurers may affect our insurance businesses. Implementation of Solvency II in EU member states occurred on January 1, 2016, and as the Solvency II regime evolves over time, we may be required to utilize a significant amount of resources to ensure compliance. In addition, despite the waiver of the Solvency II group capital requirements we received, Solvency II may have the effect of increasing the capital requirements of our EU domiciled insurers. Additionally, our capital requirements and compliance requirements may be adversely affected if the EU commission does not deem the insurance regulatory regimes of the jurisdictions outside the EU in which we have insurance or reinsurance companies domiciled to be \"equivalent\" to Solvency II.. We may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority's interpretation of the laws and regulations. Also, some regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or monetarily penalize us. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry, whether federal, state or foreign, or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, may further restrict the conduct of our business.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our international operations expose us to investment, political and economic risks, including foreign currency and credit risk.. Our expanding international operations in the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, South America, Canada, Mexico, Scandinavia, the Asia-Pacific region, Africa and Australia expose us to increased investment, political and economic risks, including foreign currency and credit risk. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our investments in non-U.S.-denominated assets are subject to fluctuations in non-U.S. securities and currency markets, and those markets can be volatile. Non-U.S. currency fluctuations also affect the value of any dividends paid by our non-U.S. subsidiaries to their parent companies in the U.S.. The United Kingdom leaving the European Union (\"EU\") could adversely affect our business.. The 2016 U.K. referendum on its membership in the EU resulted in a majority of U.K. voters voting in favor of the U.K. leaving the EU (\"Brexit\"). On March 29, 2017, the U.K. government formally notified the European Council of the U.K.'s intention to withdraw from the EU. The member withdrawal provisions in the EU treaty provide that the U.K. and the EU will negotiate a withdrawal agreement during a maximum two-year period (unless such period is extended by unanimous vote of the. 21. EU member states). As part of the sequenced approach to the talks set out by the EU, sufficient progress needs to be made on the withdrawal arrangements before any talks on a future trade deal between the EU and the U.K. can begin. Depending on the terms of the withdrawal agreement, the U.K. could lose access to the single EU market and to free trade deals with several countries that already have agreements with the EU. Such a decline in trade could affect the attractiveness of the U.K. and impact our U.K. business. We also face risks associated with the potential uncertainty and consequences related to Brexit, including with respect to volatility in financial markets, exchange rates and interest rates. These uncertainties could increase the volatility of, or reduce, our investment results in particular periods or over time.  Brexit could adversely affect European or worldwide political, regulatory, economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in political institutions and regulatory agencies. Brexit could also lead to legal uncertainty and differing laws and regulations between the U.K. and the EU. Any of these potential effects, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel and qualified employees.. We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including our President and CEO, Executive Chairman, senior executive officers, presidents of our operating units, experienced underwriters and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. If the quality of our underwriting team and other personnel decreases, we may be unable to maintain our current competitive position in the specialized markets in which we operate, and be unable to expand our operations into new products and markets.. We cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion, if at all, and, as a result, we could experience losses.. We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk that we have assumed, known as ceding, to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer contractually liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the reinsurer, it does not relieve us, the reinsured, of our liability to our policyholders. Our reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance recoverables that they owe to us or they may not pay such recoverables on a timely basis. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, and if our reinsurers fail to pay us, our financial results would be adversely affected. Underwriting results and investment returns of some of our reinsurers may affect their future ability to pay claims. As of December 31, 2017, the amount due from our reinsurers was approximately $1,783 million, including amounts due from state funds and industry pools where it was intended that we would bear no risk. Certain of these amounts due from reinsurers are secured by letters of credit or by funds held in trust on our behalf.. We are subject to credit risk relating to our policyholders, independent agents and brokers.. In addition to exposure to credit risk related to our reinsurance recoverables and investment portfolio, we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. For example our policyholders, independent agents or brokers may not pay a part of or the full amount of premiums owed to us or our brokers or other third party claim administrators may not deliver amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts for which we have provided funds.. As credit risk is generally a function of the economy, we face a greater credit risk in an economic downturn. While we attempt to manage credit risks through underwriting guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. For example, to reduce such credit risk, we require certain third parties to post collateral for some or all of their obligations to us. In cases where we receive pledged securities and the applicable counterparty is unable to honor its obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed as a result of bankruptcy. In cases where we receive letters of credit from banks as collateral and one of our counterparties is unable to honor its obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit.. We are rated by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's, and Moody's, and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing in the insurance industry and cause our sales and earnings to decrease.. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Certain of our insurance company subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's and Moody's. Our ratings are subject to periodic review, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current or any future ratings.. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's or Moody's, our competitive position in the insurance industry could suffer and it would be more difficult for us to market our products. A ratings downgrade could also adversely limit our access to capital markets, which may increase the cost of debt. A significant downgrade could result in a substantial loss of business as policyholders move to other companies with higher claims-paying and financial strength ratings.. If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments.. 22. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain amounts of risk underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries, especially catastrophe risks and those risks with relatively high policy limits. We also purchase reinsurance on risks underwritten by others which we reinsure. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we seek to purchase, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. Our reinsurance contracts are generally subject to annual renewal, and we may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance contracts or to obtain other reinsurance contracts in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. In addition, we may be unable to obtain reinsurance on terms acceptable to us relating to certain lines of business that we intend to begin writing. If we are unable to renew our expiring contracts or to obtain new reinsurance contracts, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, especially catastrophe exposed risks.. Depending on conditions in the financial markets and the general economy, we may be unable to raise debt or equity capital if needed.. If conditions in the financial markets and the general economy are unfavorable, which may result from disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets, we may be unable to access debt or equity capital on acceptable terms if needed, which could have a negative impact on our ability to invest in our insurance company subsidiaries and/or to take advantage of opportunities to expand our business, such as possible acquisitions and the creation of new ventures, and inhibit our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness if we desire to do so, on terms acceptable to us.. We may not find suitable acquisition candidates or new insurance ventures and even if we do, we may not successfully integrate any such acquired companies or successfully invest in such ventures.. As part of our present strategy, we continue to evaluate possible acquisition transactions and the start-up of complementary businesses on an ongoing basis, and at any given time we may be engaged in discussions with respect to possible acquisitions and new ventures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or insurance ventures, that such transactions will be financed and completed on acceptable terms or that our future acquisitions or start-up ventures will be successful. The process of integrating any companies we do acquire or investing in new ventures may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. If we experience difficulties with our information technology, telecommunications or other computer systems, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively or severely impacted.. Our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform necessary business functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion. A shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities, a power outage or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other computer systems could significantly impair our employees' ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or industrial accident, or the infection of our systems by a malicious computer virus, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. In addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. If our business continuity plans or system security does not sufficiently address such a business interruption, system failure or service denial, our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions could be significantly impaired and our business could be harmed.. Failure to maintain the security of our networks and confidential data may expose us to liability.. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Computer viruses, hackers, employee misconduct and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. Our electronic transmission of personal, confidential and proprietary information to third parties with whom we have business relationships and our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security. While we attempt to develop secure data transmission capabilities with these third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, our vendors and third parties could still suffer data breaches that could result in the exposure of sensitive data and the infiltration of our computer systems. Our failure to protect sensitive personal and our proprietary information, whether owing to breaches of our own systems or those of our vendors, could result in significant monetary and reputational damages. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. As a result, our ability to conduct our business could be materially and adversely affected.. We could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective.. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. These activities often are subject to internal. 23. guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards, including those related to privacy, anti-corruption, anti-bribery and global finance and insurance matters. Our continued expansion into new international markets has brought about additional requirements. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. If our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation.. We could be adversely affected by recent and future changes in U.S. Federal income tax laws.. Recent tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, fundamentally overhauls the U.S. tax system by, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21%, repealing the corporate alternative minimum tax, limiting the deductibility of business interest expense, introducing a base erosion and anti-avoidance tax aimed at cross-border deductible payments to related foreign persons, moving closer to a territorial system of taxing earnings generated through foreign subsidiaries and imposing a one-time deemed repatriation tax on certain post-1986 undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. In the context of the taxation of U.S. property/casualty insurance companies such as the Company, the Act would also modify the loss reserve discounting rules and the proration rules that apply to reduce reserve deductions to reflect the lower corporate income tax rate. Although we believe that the changes introduced by the Act should generally benefit us, we are unable to predict the ultimate impact of the Act and its implementing regulations. In addition, it is possible that other legislation could be introduced and enacted by the current Congress or future Congresses that could have an adverse impact on us. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying provisions of the Act may be forthcoming. We cannot predict if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided, whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect or their potential impact on us.. Risks Relating to Our Investments. A significant amount of our assets is invested in fixed maturity securities and is subject to market fluctuations.. Our investment portfolio consists substantially of fixed maturity securities. As of December 31, 2017, our investment in fixed maturity securities was approximately $13.6 billion, or 73.6% of our total investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents. As of that date, our portfolio of fixed maturity securities consisted of the following types of securities: U.S. Government securities (2.8%); state and municipal securities (33.2%); corporate securities (32.4%); asset-backed securities (15.6%); mortgage-backed securities (9.7%) and foreign government (6.3%).. The fair value of these assets and the investment income from these assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair value of fixed maturity securities generally decreases as interest rates rise. If significant inflation or an increase in interest rates were to occur, the fair value of our fixed maturity securities would be negatively impacted. Conversely, if interest rates decline, investment income earned from future investments in fixed maturity securities will be lower. Some fixed maturity securities, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, also carry prepayment risk as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Additionally, given the near historically low interest rate environment, we may not be able to successfully reinvest the proceeds from maturing securities at yields commensurate with our target performance goals.. The value of investments in fixed maturity securities is subject to impairment as a result of deterioration in the credit worthiness of the issuer, default by the issuer (including states and municipalities) in the performance of its obligations in respect of the securities and/or increases in market interest rates. To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn or recession. During periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, particularly if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may require additional subjectivity and management judgment.. Although the historical rates of default on state and municipal securities have been relatively low, our state and municipal fixed maturity securities could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. Many states and municipalities operate under deficits or projected deficits, the severity and duration of which could have an adverse impact on both the valuation of our state and municipal fixed maturity securities and the issuer's ability to perform its obligations thereunder. Additionally, our investments are subject to losses as a result of a general decrease in commercial and economic activity for an industry sector in which we invest, as well as risks inherent in particular securities.. Although we attempt to manage these risks through the use of investment guidelines and other oversight mechanisms and by diversifying our portfolio and emphasizing preservation of principal, our efforts may not be successful. Impairments, defaults and/or rate increases could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. Investment returns are currently, and will likely continue to remain, under pressure due to the continued low inflation,  actions by the Federal Reserve, economic uncertainty, more generally, and the shape of the yield curve. As a result, our exposure to the risks described above could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. 24. We have invested a portion of our assets in equity securities, merger arbitrage securities, investment funds, private equity, loans and real estate related assets, which are subject to significant volatility and may decline in value.. We invest a portion of our investment portfolio in equity securities, merger arbitrage securities, investment funds, private equity, loans and real estate related assets. At December 31, 2017, our investment in these assets was approximately $3.9 billion, or 21.2%, of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents.. Merger and arbitrage trading securities were $618 million, or 3.4% of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2017. Merger arbitrage involves investing in the securities of publicly held companies that are the targets in announced tender offers and mergers. Merger arbitrage differs from other types of investments in its focus on transactions and events believed likely to bring about a change in value over a relatively short time period, usually four months or less. Our merger arbitrage positions are exposed to the risk associated with the completion of announced deals, which are subject to regulatory as well as political and other risks.. Real estate related investments, including directly owned, investment funds and loans receivable, were $2.2 billion, or 11.7% of our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, at December 31, 2017. We also invest in aviation and rail equipment funds, credit-related funds and energy and other investment funds. The values of these investments are subject to fluctuations based on changes in the economy and interest rates in general and the related asset valuations in particular. In addition, our investments in real estate related assets and other alternative investments are less liquid than our other investments.. These investments are subject to significant volatility as a result of the conditions in the financial and commodity markets and the global economy.. Risks Relating to Purchasing Our Securities. We are an insurance holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends in needed amounts.. As an insurance holding company, our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our insurance company subsidiaries. We have to rely on dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, paying dividends to stockholders and repurchasing our shares and paying corporate expenses. The payment of dividends by our insurance company subsidiaries is subject to regulatory restrictions and will depend on the surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries. During 2018, the maximum amount of dividends that can be paid without regulatory approval is approximately $699 million. As a result, in the future we may not be able to receive dividends from these subsidiaries at times and in amounts necessary to meet our obligations, pay dividends or repurchase shares.. Laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business could delay, deter or prevent an attempt to acquire control of us that stockholders might consider to be desirable, and may restrict a stockholder's ability to purchase our common stock.. Generally, United States insurance holding company laws require that, before a person can acquire control of an insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance regulatory authorities in the state in which that insurance company is domiciled. Pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, \"control\" over an insurer is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10% or more of the voting securities of that insurer or any parent company of such insurer. Indirect ownership includes ownership of the shares of our common stock. Thus, the insurance regulatory authorities of the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled are likely to apply these restrictions on acquisition of control to any proposed acquisition of our common stock. Some states require a person seeking to acquire control of an insurer licensed but not domiciled in that state to make a filing prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and its affiliates, on the one hand, and the target insurer and its affiliates, on the other hand, have specified market shares in the same lines of insurance in that state. Additionally, many foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business impose similar restrictions and requirements.. These provisions can also lead to the imposition of conditions on an acquisition that could delay or prevent its consummation. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable.. 25. Certain provisions in our organizational documents may have the effect of hindering, delaying or preventing third party takeovers and thus may prevent our stockholders from receiving premium prices for their shares in an unsolicited takeover or make it more difficult for third parties to replace our current management.. Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws, as well as state insurance statutes, may hinder, delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions or changes of our control. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of our current management without the concurrence of our board of directors.. These provisions include:. • our classified board of directors and the ability of our board to increase its size and to appoint directors to fill newly created directorships;. • the requirement that 80% of our stockholders must approve mergers and other transactions between us and the holder of 5% or more of our shares, unless the transaction was approved by our board of directors prior to such holder's acquisition of 5% of our shares; and. • the need for advance notice in order to raise business or make nominations at stockholders' meetings.. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable."
