[1] "Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS. This Report, including the Financial Supplement, contains, and our other public communications may contain, forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding: expected financial positions; results of operations; cash flows; financing plans; business strategy; operating plans; capital and other expenditures; competitive positions; growth opportunities for existing products; benefits from new technology and cost reduction initiatives, plans and objectives; and markets for securities, are forward looking. Such statements generally include the words \"believes,\" \"plans,\" \"intends,\" \"targets,\" \"will,\" \"expects,\" \"suggests,\" \"anticipates,\" \"outlook,\" \"continues\" or similar expressions. For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. We are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our projections or that could cause other forward-looking statements to prove incorrect. Factors that could cause actual events to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our reported results should not be considered as an indication of our future performance. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our projections and forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date those projections and statements are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the projections and forward-looking statements contained in this document, or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document. In addition to general economic, business and market conditions, we are subject to other risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, the following:. Risks Related to the Business. The global scope of our operations subjects us to the risks of doing business in foreign countries, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate our business on a global scale with approximately 75% of our 2017 sales outside the United States. We operate and/or sell to customers in over 60 countries and in over 30 currencies. We currently have many production facilities, research and development facilities and administrative and sales offices located outside North America, including facilities and offices located in EMEA (Europe Middle East Africa), Asia Pacific and Latin America. We expect non-U.S. sales to continue to represent a substantial majority of our revenue. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent in non-U.S. operations include the following:. • commercial agreements may be more difficult to enforce and receivables more difficult to collect;. • intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce;. • increased shipping costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation;. • we may have difficulty transferring our profits or capital from foreign operations to other countries where such funds could be more profitably deployed;. • we may experience unexpected adverse changes in export duties, quotas and tariffs and difficulties in obtaining export licenses;. • some foreign countries have adopted, and others may impose, additional withholding and other taxes or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including import, currency exchange and capital controls, charges and limitations;. • foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises;. • our business and profitability in a particular country could be affected by political or economic repercussions on a domestic, country-specific or global level from terrorist activities and the response to such activities;. • we may be affected by unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements;. • we may have to pay increased cash taxes in the event of a change in tax laws, regulations or interpretations in one or more foreign jurisdictions, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, or liquidity could be adversely affected; and. 12. Table of Contents. • we are exposed to geopolitical risk, where unexpected changes in global, regional, or local political or social conditions could adversely affect our foreign operations.. Our success as a global business will depend, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions by developing, implementing and maintaining policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business.. We are exposed to currency exchange rate changes that impact our profitability.. We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk through our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may materially affect our operating results. For example, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the relative prices at which we and our competitors sell products in the same region and the cost of materials used in our operations. A substantial portion of our net sales and assets are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the euro. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, at a constant level of business, our reported sales, earnings, assets and liabilities are reduced because the non-U.S. currencies translate into fewer U.S. dollars.. We incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary's functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction risks effectively, or volatility in currency exchange rates may expose our financial condition or results of operations to a significant additional risk.. Prices for certain raw materials and energy are volatile and can have a significant effect on our manufacturing and supply chain strategies as we seek to maximize our profitability. If we are unable to successfully adjust our strategies in response to volatile raw materials and energy prices, such volatility could have a negative effect on our earnings in future periods.. We use petroleum-based materials, metals, natural gas and other materials in the manufacture of our products. We consume substantial amounts of energy in our manufacturing processes. Prices for these materials and energy are volatile and can have a significant effect on our pricing, sales, manufacturing and supply chain strategies as we seek to maximize our profitability. Our ability to successfully adjust strategies in response to volatile raw material and energy prices is a significant factor in maintaining or improving our profitability. If we are unable to successfully adjust our strategies in response to volatile prices, such volatility could have a negative effect on our sales and earnings in future periods.. A substantial portion of our raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply and demand fundamentals change.. We attempt to manage exposure to price volatility of major commodities through:. • long-term supply contracts;. • contracts with customers that permit adjustments for changes in prices of commodity-based materials and energy;. • forward buying programs that layer in our expected requirements systematically over time; and. • limited use of financial instruments.. Although we regularly assess our exposure to raw material price volatility, we cannot always predict the prospects of volatility and we cannot always cover the risk in a cost effective manner.. We have a policy of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for raw materials. However, certain of our raw materials may be provided by single sources of supply. We may not be able to obtain sufficient raw materials due to unforeseen developments that would cause an interruption in supply. Even if we have multiple sources of supply for raw materials, these sources may not make up for the loss of a major supplier.. If we are not able to continue our technological innovation and successful introduction of new products, our customers may turn to other suppliers to meet their requirements.. The specialty chemicals industry and the end-use markets into which we sell our products experience ongoing technological change and product improvements. A key element of our business strategy is to invest in research and development activities with the goal of introducing new high-performance, technically differentiated. 13. Table of Contents. products. We may not be successful in developing new technology and products that effectively compete with products introduced by our competitors, and our customers may not accept, or may have lower demand for, our new products. If we fail to keep pace with evolving technological innovations or fail to improve our products in response to our customers' needs, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of reduced sales of our products.. We spend large amounts of money for environmental compliance in connection with our current and former operations.. As a manufacturer of specialty chemicals and specialty materials, we are subject to stringent regulations under numerous U.S. federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, discharge, disposition and stewardship of chemicals and other materials. We have expended substantial funds to comply with such laws and regulations and have established a policy to minimize our emissions to the environment. Nevertheless, legislative, regulatory and economic uncertainties (including existing and potential laws and regulations pertaining to climate change) make it difficult for us to project future spending for these purposes, and if there is an acceleration in new regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend substantial additional funds to remain in compliance.. We are subject to environmental clean-up costs, fines, penalties and damage claims that have been and continue to be costly.. In the U.S., we are subject to lawsuits and regulatory actions, in connection with current and former operations (including some divested businesses and off-site disposal facilities), that seek clean-up or other remedies. We are also subject to similar risks outside of the U.S.. We operated a vermiculite mine in Libby, Montana, until 1990. Some of the vermiculite ore that was mined at the Libby mine contained naturally occurring asbestos. We are cooperating with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and other federal, state and local governmental agencies in a remedial investigation and feasibility study (\"RI/FS\") of the Libby mine and the surrounding area to determine the location, scope and extent of required remediation. The EPA is also investigating or remediating formerly owned or operated sites that processed Libby vermiculite into finished products. We are cooperating with the EPA on these investigation and remediation activities, and have recorded a liability to the extent that our review has indicated that a probable liability has been incurred and the cost is estimable.. We have recorded liabilities for all environmental matters for which a loss is considered to be probable and sufficient information is available to reasonably estimate the loss. These liabilities do not include the cost to remediate the Libby vermiculite mine and surrounding area or costs related to any additional EPA claims, whether resulting from the EPA's investigation of vermiculite facilities or otherwise, which may be material but are not currently estimable. Due to these vermiculite-related matters, it is probable that our ultimate liability for environmental matters will exceed our current estimates by material amounts.. Our indebtedness may materially affect our business, including our ability to fulfill our obligations, react to changes in our business and incur additional debt to fund future needs.. We have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1,033.1 million of unsecured indebtedness outstanding and $510.8 million of secured indebtedness outstanding. Our indebtedness may have material effects on our business, including to:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt payments, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development, distributions to stockholders, stock repurchase programs and other purposes;. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or taking advantage of favorable business opportunities;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;. • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, credit and industry conditions, including recessions;. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt service and other obligations;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less debt; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to dispose of assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other purposes.. 14. Table of Contents. If we incur additional debt, the risks related to our indebtedness may intensify. We expect to incur additional debt in connection with the announced polyolefin catalysts acquisition.. Restrictions imposed by agreements governing our indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business, finance our future operations or capital needs, or engage in other business activities. If we fail to comply with certain restrictions under these agreements, our debt could be accelerated and we may not have sufficient cash to pay our accelerated debt.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit, among other things, our ability, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, to:. • incur certain liens;. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and. • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our guarantors.. As a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our flexibility to operate our business. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in these agreements, including maintaining the financial ratios required by our credit facilities, could lead to an event of default which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our future operating results will be sufficient to enable us to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness or to remedy any such default. In addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments.. Our indebtedness exposes us to interest expense increases if interest rates increase.. As of December 31, 2017, $301.3 million, or approximately 20%, of our borrowings were at variable interest rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed would remain the same, and our net income would decrease. An increase of 100 basis points in the interest rates payable on our variable rate indebtedness would increase our annual estimated debt-service requirements by $3.0 million, assuming our consolidated variable interest rate indebtedness outstanding as of December 31, 2017, remains the same.. We have unfunded and underfunded pension plan liabilities. We will require future operating cash flow to fund these liabilities. We have no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash to satisfy these obligations.. We maintain U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans covering current and former employees who meet or met age and service requirements. Our net pension liability and cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the longevity and actuarial profile of our workforce, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the actual and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change in the expected rate of return on plan assets. Assets available to fund the pension benefit obligation of the U.S. advance-funded pension plans at December 31, 2017, were approximately $1,110 million, or approximately $107 million less than the measured pension benefit obligation on a U.S. GAAP basis. In addition, any changes in the discount rate could result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost in the following years.. Our obligation to make payments to the PD Trust in respect of asbestos PD Claims (other than ZAI PD Claims) is not capped and we may be obligated to make additional payments.. Under the Joint Plan of reorganization that concluded Grace's status as a debtor under Chapter 11, as discussed above (the \"Joint Plan\"), an asbestos property damage trust has been established and funded under Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code. The order of the Bankruptcy Court confirming the Joint Plan contains a channeling injunction which provides that all pending and future asbestos-related property damage claims and demands, PD Claims, can only be brought against the PD Trust. The PD Trust contains two accounts. One of these accounts, the PD Account, is funded solely in respect of PD Claims other than those PD Claims related to. 15. Table of Contents. our former ZAI attic insulation product. Unresolved and future non-ZAI PD Claims are to be litigated pursuant to procedures approved by the Bankruptcy Court and, to the extent such PD claims are determined to be allowed claims, are to be paid in cash by the PD Trust. We are obligated to make a payment to the PD Trust every six months in the amount of any non-ZAI PD Claims allowed during the preceding six months plus interest (if any) and the amount of PD Trust expenses for the preceding six months (the \"PD Obligation\"). The aggregate amount we are required to pay under the PD Obligation is not capped so we may have to make additional payments to the PD Account in respect of the PD Obligation. We are also obligated to make up to 10 contingent deferred payments to the PD Trust of $8 million each during the 20-year period beginning February 3, 2019, in respect of ZAI PD Claims in the event the ZAI PD Account's assets fall below $10 million in the preceding year. We have accrued liabilities for probable PD Claims but have not accrued any liability for the contingent ZAI PD payments as we do not currently believe they are probable.. Our ability to use net operating losses and tax credits to reduce future tax payments may be limited if there is a change in ownership of Grace or if Grace does not generate sufficient U.S. taxable income or foreign source income. Our ability to use these attributes is also subject to time limitations. Changes in tax laws and regulations may reduce their value and availability.. Our ability to use future tax deductions and tax credits, including net operating losses (\"NOLs\"), is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. and sufficient foreign source income. Under U.S. federal income tax law, a corporation is generally permitted to carry forward NOLs for a 20-year period (indefinitely in the case of NOLs occurring in taxable years after December 31, 2017) for deduction against future taxable income. Federal tax credits may be carried forward for 10 years. Also, our ability to use NOLs and tax credits and their value may be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and regulations.. In addition, our ability to utilize federal and state NOLs and U.S. federal tax credits may be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code resulting from future changes in the ownership of outstanding Company common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that under certain circumstances, our Board of Directors would have the authority to impose restrictions on the transfer of Company common stock with respect to certain 5% stockholders in order to preserve these future tax benefits.. We intend to pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions that complement or expand our businesses. We may not be able to complete proposed transactions and even if completed, the transactions may involve a number of risks that may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We intend to continue to pursue opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current businesses or product lines or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may have difficulty identifying appropriate opportunities or, if we do identify opportunities, we may not be successful in completing transactions for a number of reasons. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including:. • the diversion of management's attention from our existing businesses to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture;. • possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process;. • failure of the acquired business to achieve expected operational objectives; and. • our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction.. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or their employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, which may lead to operational inefficiencies.. We work with dangerous materials that can injure our employees, damage our facilities, disrupt our operations, and contaminate the environment.. Some of our operations involve the handling of hazardous materials that may pose the risk of fire, explosion, or the release of hazardous substances. Such events could result from natural disasters, operational failures or terrorist attacks, and might cause injury or loss of life to our employees and others, environmental contamination, and property damage. These events might cause a temporary shutdown of an affected plant, or portion thereof, and we could be subject to penalties or claims as a result. A disruption of our operations caused by these or other events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Some of our employees are unionized, represented by works councils or employed subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws in the United States.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 3,700 global employees. Approximately 640 of our approximately 1,900 U.S. employees are unionized. In addition, a large number of our employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other rights to employees than the laws in the United States. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor arrangements. For example, most of our employees in Europe are represented by works councils that have co-determination rights on any changes in conditions of employment, including certain salaries and benefits and staff changes, and may impede efforts to restructure our workforce. A strike, work stoppage or slowdown by our employees or significant dispute with our employees, whether or not related to these negotiations, could result in a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs.. We may be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, which could hurt our business.. From time to time, we face infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of the claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving the claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business. If we are found to be infringing on the proprietary technology of others, we may be liable for damages, and we may be required to change our processes, redesign our products, pay others to use the technology or stop using the technology or producing the infringing product. Even if we ultimately prevail, the existence of the lawsuit could prompt our customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits.. We are subject to business continuity risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to significant risks from both natural disasters and accidents such as fires, storms and floods, and other disruptive events, such as war, insurrection and terrorist actions. These types of occurrences can negatively affect our manufacturing, supply chain, logistics, transportation, and communications functions. Similarly, they can strike major suppliers and customers, thus restricting or delaying our supply of raw materials or energy as well as reducing or deferring demand for our products and services. Also, we have centralized certain administrative functions, primarily in North America, Europe and Asia, to improve efficiency and reduce costs. To the extent that these central locations are disrupted or disabled, key business processes, such as invoicing, payments and general management operations, could be interrupted.. As we operate worldwide in a competitive environment, global economic and financial market conditions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We compete by selling value-added products, technologies and services. Increased levels and numbers of competitors, globally or regionally, could negatively impact our results of operations. Economic conditions around the world can have a direct impact on our revenues. A global or regional economic downturn or market uncertainty could reduce the demand for our products, technologies and services, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Since many of our customers are refiners, our fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) catalyst business is highly dependent on the economics of the petroleum refining industry. Demand for our FCC products is affected by refinery throughput, the type and quality of refinery feedstocks, and the demand for transportation fuels and other refinery products, such as propylene. Also, disruptions in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our ability to finance our operations and growth plans, and could negatively impact our suppliers and customers in similar manners.. Our ability to operate our businesses and our financial condition could be significantly undermined by cybersecurity breaches.. Despite our implementation of security measures, our information technology (\"IT\") systems are subject to cyberattack and other similar disruptions. Breaches by hackers, the introduction of computer viruses and other cybersecurity incidents affecting our IT systems could result in disruptions to our operations. Also, such incidents could include theft of our trade secrets and other intellectual property, as well as confidential customer and. 17. Table of Contents. business information, which could be used by unauthorized parties and publicly disclosed. This could negatively affect our relationships with customers and our ability to compete effectively, and could ultimately harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by cybersecurity breaches in the future.. A failure of our information technology infrastructure could adversely impact our business and operations.. We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our IT infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to the changing needs of our business. If we experience a problem with the functioning of an important IT system, the resulting disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business. Our IT systems affect virtually every aspect of our business, including supply chain, manufacturing, logistics, finance and communications. We and certain of our third-party vendors receive and store personal information in connection with our human resources operations and other aspects of our business. Any IT system failure, natural disaster, accident, or intentional breach could result in disruptions to our operations.. Risks Related to the Separation. In connection with the Separation, GCP will indemnify us and we will indemnify GCP for certain liabilities. There can be no assurance that the indemnities from GCP will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that GCP's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future.. Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement and other agreements we entered into in connection with the Separation, GCP agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify GCP for certain liabilities. However, third parties might seek to hold us responsible for liabilities that GCP agreed to assume or retain under these agreements, and there can be no assurance that GCP will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations under these agreements.. A court could deem the Distribution in the Separation to be a fraudulent conveyance and void the transaction or impose substantial liabilities upon us.. If the transaction is challenged by a third party, notwithstanding the fact that we received an opinion from a nationally recognized financial firm that we were solvent and had adequate surplus to make the Distribution, a court could deem the distribution of GCP common stock or certain internal restructuring transactions undertaken by us in connection with the Separation to be a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. Fraudulent conveyances or transfers are defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. In such circumstances, a court could void the transactions or impose substantial liabilities upon us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. Among other things, the court could require our stockholders to return to us some or all of the shares of GCP common stock issued in the Distribution or require us to fund liabilities of other companies involved in the Separation for the benefit of creditors. Whether a transaction is a fraudulent conveyance or transfer will vary depending upon the laws of the applicable jurisdiction."
