[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Ownership of the Company's common stock involves risk. Investors should carefully consider, in addition to the other information set forth herein, the following risk factors:. Current economic conditions pose challenges and could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.. The Company is operating in an uncertain economic environment, including lackluster national and global conditions, accompanied by relatively low interest rates. Financial institutions can be affected by changing conditions in the real estate and financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market in past years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. While conditions have improved, a return to a recessionary economy could result in financial stress on the Bank's borrowers that could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Deteriorating conditions in the regional economy served by the Company could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in its allowance for loan losses. The Company could also face the following risks in connection with the following events:. <U+25AA> Ineffective monetary policy or other market conditions could cause rapid changes in interest rates and asset values that would have a materially adverse impact on the Company's profitability and overall financial condition.. • Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, resulting in increased delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities.. • The processes the Company uses to estimate the allowance for loan losses and other reserves may prove to be unreliable. Such estimates rely upon complex modeling inputs and judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may be rendered inaccurate and/or no longer subject to accurate forecasting.. • The Company's ability to assess the creditworthiness of its borrowers may be impaired if the models and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite loans become less predictive of future charge-offs.. • Regulatory scrutiny of the industry could increase, leading to harsh regulation of the industry that could lead to a higher cost of compliance, limit the Company's ability to pursue business opportunities and increase its exposure to the judicial system and the plaintiff's bar.. • Further erosion in the fiscal condition of the U.S. Treasury could lead to new taxes that would limit the ability of the Company to pursue growth and return profits to shareholders.. If these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, the Company could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its financial condition.. The effects of the economic recession were severe in the Company's primary market areas.. Substantially all of the Bank's loans are to individuals, businesses and real estate developers in the Pacific Northwest, Arizona, Utah, Texas, New Mexico and Nevada, and the Bank's business depends significantly on general economic conditions in these market areas. Unemployment rates have improved but continue to be high in some of the Company's market areas. Severe declines in housing prices and property values were acute in the Company's primary market areas.  Most areas are improving in real estate values.  However, a further deterioration in economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in these market areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business:. • Loan delinquencies may increase.. • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase.. • Demand for the Bank's products and services may decline.. • Collateral for loans made by the Bank, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer's borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with the loans.. A downturn in the real estate market would hurt the Company's business.. The Company's business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in real estate lending. The market for real estate is cyclical and the outlook for this sector is uncertain.  A downturn in the real estate market, accompanied by falling values and increased foreclosures would hurt the Company's business because a large majority of its loans are secured by real estate.. Actions by other lenders or bank regulators could depress the value of the Company's real estate holdings, if lenders aggressively dispose of properties because of demand by their regulators or the prevailing business conditions.  If a significant decline in market values occurs, the collateral for the Company's loans will provide decreasing levels of security.  As a result, the Company's ability. 26. to recover the principal amount due on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and the Company will be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans.. The Company owns real estate as a result of foreclosures resulting from non-performing loans.  If other lenders or borrowers liquidate significant amounts of real estate in a rapid or disorderly fashion, or if the FDIC elects to dispose of significant amounts of real estate from failed financial institutions in a similar fashion, it could have an adverse effect on the values of the properties owned by the Company. In such a case, the Company may incur further write-downs and charge-offs, which could, in turn, adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition.. The Company may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting and loan collection practices.. The Company seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting and loan collection practices. Underwriting practices often include analysis of a borrower's prior credit history; financial statements; tax returns; cash flow projections; valuation of collateral; personal guarantees of loans to businesses; and verification of liquid assets. If the underwriting process fails to capture accurate information or proves to be inadequate, the Company may incur losses on loans that appeared to meet its underwriting criteria, and those losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in the allowance for loan losses.  Loan collection resources may be expanded to meet increases in nonperforming loans resulting from economic downturns or to service any loans acquired, resulting in higher loan administration costs.  The Company is also exposed to the risk of improper documentation of foreclosure proceedings that would also increase the cost of collection.  There is also the risk that loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC may not be fulfilled.. The Company recently upgraded its core technology infrastructure, which may expose it to significant risks.. The Company recently completed the transition from a stable, cost-efficient but aging legacy operating system to a more modern, efficient, scalable system.  The Company believes the new system will allow it to better provide its products and services to its customers but is dependent on the third party vendor to provide the necessary services and support.  Any disruption of such services, or the termination of a third-party license or service agreement related thereto, could adversely affect the Company's ability to provide and service customer products.. In addition, when the Company acquires other institutions or branches, the success and value of the transaction can depend in part on the Company's ability to seamlessly integrate the acquired customers' services and products with the technology platform. Failure to do so can lead to, among other things, dissatisfaction among acquired customers and the loss of the business of such customers.. The Company has risk of systems failures and security risk, including \"hacking\" and \"identity theft.\". The Company relies extensively on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of its information technology and telecommunications systems.  Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in its customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems and could damage its reputation, result in loss of customer business, subject it to regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and possible financial liability.  This applies to internally developed systems and the systems of third-party service providers.. While the Company believes it has robust information systems and security procedures, controls and policies designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur, or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed.  Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate protective measures.. To date, the Company has not experienced any material losses related to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, but there can be no assurance that it will not suffer such attacks and losses in the future.  The Company's risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, its plans to continue to implement internet banking and mobile banking channels, expand operations and use third-party information systems.. Cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of the Company's controls, processes and practices designed to protect customer information, its systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for the Company.  As cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, the Company may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or refine our protective measures against these threats.. 27. The Company's business is subject to interest rate risk and changes in market interest rates may negatively affect its results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by interest-earning assets and the interest expense generated by interest-bearing liabilities. The level of net interest income is a function of the average balances of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the spread between the amounts of the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (the \"FOMC\") and market interest rates.  Management is unable to predict these external factors, including the fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many drivers, including inflation, recession, unemployment, monetary policy, domestic and international disorder, instability in domestic and foreign financial markets and investor and consumer demand.. Furthermore, movements in interest rates, the pace at which such movements occur and the volume and mix of the Company's interest-bearing assets and liabilities influence the level of net interest income. The cost of the Company's deposits is largely based on short-term interest rates, the level of which is driven by the FOMC. However, the yields generated by its long-term loans, such as single-family residential and multifamily mortgage loans, and securities are typically driven by longer-term (10 year) interest rates, which are set by the market and vary from day to day.  During the last few years, the Federal Reserve's unprecedented involvement in the purchase of assets, commonly known as \"quantitative easing,\" has caused interest rates to be lower than they would have been without such involvement.  The withdrawal of this quantitative easing began in October 2017, but the completion time frame and ultimate impact remains unknown.. If the interest rates on the Company's interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on its interest-earning assets, the result could be a reduction in net interest income and with it, a reduction in earnings. Net interest income and earnings would be similarly impacted were the interest rates on interest-earning assets to decline more quickly than the interest rates on interest-bearing liabilities.  In addition, changes in interest rates could affect the Bank's ability to originate loans and attract and retain deposits; the fair values of its securities and other financial assets; the fair values of its liabilities; and the average lives of its loan and securities portfolios. Additionally, decreases in interest rates could lead to increased loan refinancing activity, which, in turn, would alter the balance of the Company's interest-earning assets and impact net interest income. Increases in interest rates could reduce loan refinancing activity, which could result in compression of the spread between loan yields and more quickly rising funding rates.. The Company may be exposed to movements in market rates to a degree not experienced by other financial institutions.  The Company must carefully manage interest rate risk as a result of its significant portfolio of fixed-rate single-family home loans, which are longer-term in nature than the customer accounts and borrowed money that constitute its liabilities. The Company manages its interest rate risk in part by growing the fixed-rate loan portfolio when yields are higher and focusing on loans or investments with shorter-term characteristics, such as construction or commercial loans, when loan rates are lower.  This balance sheet strategy, in conjunction with a strong capital position, has allowed the Company to manage interest rate risk through all interest rate cycles. Low operating costs have contributed further to the strong capital position. Although the Company has implemented asset and liability management policies and procedures that seek to minimize or contain this interest rate risk, these policies may not be successful in the future.. The Company relies, in part, on external financing to fund its operations and the unavailability of such funding in the future could adversely impact its growth and prospects.. The Company relies on customer deposits, advances from the FHLB of Des Moines and other borrowings to fund its operations. Management has historically been able to replace maturing deposits, if desired; however the Company may not be able to replace such funds at any given point in time if its financial condition or market conditions change or if the cost of doing so might adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations.. Although the Company considers its sources of funds adequate for its liquidity needs, it may seek additional debt in the future to achieve its long-term business objectives. Such borrowings, if sought, may not be available to the Company or, if available, may not be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, the Company's financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be adversely affected.. The Company's ability to pay dividends is subject to limitations that may affect its ability to pay dividends to its Shareholders.. The Company is a separate legal entity from its bank subsidiary and does not have significant operations of its own. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by the Bank's earnings and capital, as well as various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the Bank may not pay dividends to the. 28. Company.  If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. The market price for the Company's common stock may be volatile.. The market price of the Company's common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including those discussed below. The market price of the Company's common stock has in the past fluctuated significantly and is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly. Some factors that may cause the price of its common stock to fluctuate include:. • variations in the operating results of the Company and its competitors. • changes in securities analysts' estimates of the Company's future performance and the future performance of its competitors. • announcements by the Company or its competitors of mergers, acquisitions and strategic partnerships. • additions or departure of key personnel. • events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to the Company. • general conditions in the financial markets and real estate markets. • general conditions in the United States. • the presence or absence of short selling of the Company's common stock. • future sales of the Company's common stock or debt securities. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial price and trading fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of the Company's common stock.. A person holding the Company's common stock could have the voting power of their shares of common stock on all matters significantly reduced under Washington's anti-takeover statutes, if the person acquires 10% or more of the voting stock of the Company.. The Company is incorporated in the state of Washington and subject to Washington state law. Some provisions of Washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. For example, Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act, with limited exceptions, prohibits a \"target corporation\" from engaging in specified \"significant business transactions\" for a period of five years after the share acquisition by an acquiring person, unless:. <U+25AA> the prohibited transaction or the acquiring person's purchase of shares was approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation's board of directors prior to the acquiring person's share acquisition; or. <U+25AA> the prohibited transaction was both approved by the majority of the members of the target corporation's board and authorized at a shareholder meeting by at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting shares (excluding the acquiring person's shares) at or subsequent to the acquiring person's share acquisition.  An acquiring person is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially own 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation. Such prohibited transactions include, among other things:. * certain mergers, or consolidations with, disposition of assets to, or issuances of stock to or redemption of stock from, the acquiring person;. * termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation as a result of the acquiring person's acquisition of 10% or more of the shares;. * allowing the acquiring person to receive any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder; and. * liquidating or dissolving the target corporation.. After the five-year period, certain \"significant business transactions\" are permitted, if they comply with certain \"fair price\" provisions of the statute or are approved by a majority of the outstanding shares other than those of which the acquiring person has beneficial ownership. As a Washington corporation, the Company is not permitted to \"opt out\" of this statute.. The Company's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely impacted by issues arising from certain industry deficiencies in foreclosure practices, including delays and challenges in the foreclosure process.. Foreclosure process issues and the potential legal and regulatory responses to them could negatively impact the process and timing to completion of foreclosures for residential mortgage lenders, including the Bank. Foreclosure timelines have increased in recent years due to, among other reasons, delays associated with the significant increase in the number of foreclosure cases as a result of economic downturns, additional consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process and voluntary or, in some cases, mandatory programs intended to permit or require lenders to consider loan modifications or other alternatives to. 29. foreclosure.  Increases in the foreclosure timeline may have an adverse effect on collateral values and the Company's ability to minimize its losses.. The Company's ability to originate mortgage loans has been adversely affected by the increased competition resulting from the involvement of the U.S. Government, the Federal Reserve and Government-Sponsored Enterprises (\"GSEs\") in the residential mortgage market.. Over the past few years, the Company has faced increased competition for mortgage loans due to the increased involvement of the GSEs in the mortgage market as a result of the recent economic crisis, which has caused interest rates for thirty year fixed-rate mortgage loans that conform to GSE guidelines to remain artificially low.  Additionally, the Federal Reserve has participated in the mortgage market in an unusual manner, through its purchases of GSE mortgage-backed securities as part of its \"quantitative easing\" program.  The Company's one-to-four family mortgage loan repayments have been elevated, and it is possible that its one-to-four family mortgage loan repayments will outpace its loan production as a result of these factors, making it difficult for it to grow its mortgage loan portfolio and balance sheet.. The Company may need to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses (\"ALLL\") in material amounts. The Company may experience elevated amounts of net charge-offs.. The Company's customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. While the Company maintains an ALLL to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, losses may exceed the value of the collateral securing the loans and the allowance may not fully cover any excess loss.. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. The Company's ALLL is based on these judgments, as well as historical loss experience and an evaluation of the other risks associated with its loan portfolio, including but not limited to, the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio.  Federal regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, review the Company's loans and ALLL. If the Company's assumptions and judgments used to determine the ALLL prove to be incorrect, if the value of the collateral securing the loans decreases substantially or if the Company's regulators disagree with its judgments, it may need to increase the ALLL in amounts that exceed its expectations. Material additions to the ALLL would adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company may be required to increase its ALLL as a result of a recent change to an accounting standard.. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses. The amendments in this ASU were issued to provide financial statement users with more decision-useful information about the expected credit losses on financial instruments that are not accounted for at fair value through net income, including loans held for investment, held-to-maturity debt securities, trade and other receivables, net investments in leases and other commitments to extend credit held by a reporting entity at each reporting date. The amendments require that financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis. The ASU eliminates the current framework of recognizing probable incurred losses and instead requires an entity to use its current estimate of all expected credit losses over the contractual life. The measurement of expected credit losses is based upon historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the financial assets.. For purchased financial assets with a more-than-insignificant amount of credit deterioration since origination (\"PCD assets\") that are measured at amortized cost, an allowance for expected credit losses is recorded as an adjustment to the cost basis of the asset. Subsequent changes in estimated cash flows would be recorded as an adjustment to the allowance and through the statement of income.. Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities will be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a direct write-down to the security's cost basis.. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. For most debt securities, the transition approach requires a cumulative-effect adjustment to the statement of financial position as of the beginning of the first reporting period the guidance is effective. For other-than-temporarily impaired debt securities and PCD assets, the guidance will be applied prospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the provisions of this ASU to determine the impact the new standard will have on the Company's consolidated financial statements.. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of its business activities.. 30. The Company is subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC, CFPB and the FDIC. In addition, the Federal Reserve is responsible for regulating the Company. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit the Company's Shareholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. As part of this regulatory structure, the Company and the Bank are subject to policies and other guidance developed by the regulatory agencies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Under this structure the OCC, the FDIC, the CFPB and the Federal Reserve have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the Company's operations if they determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of the Company's operations.. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could result in a range of sanctions and enforcement actions, including the imposition of civil money penalties, formal agreements and cease and desist orders. In addition, the OCC has specific authority to take \"prompt corrective action,\" depending on the Bank's capital level. Currently, the Bank is considered \"well-capitalized\" for prompt corrective action purposes. If the Bank were designated by the OCC as \"adequately capitalized,\" its ability to take brokered deposits would become limited. If the Bank were to be designated by the OCC in one of the lower capital levels \"undercapitalized,\" \"significantly undercapitalized\" or \"critically undercapitalized,\" it would be required to raise additional capital and would be subject to progressively more severe restrictions on its operations, management and capital distributions, and replacement of senior executive officers and directors.  If the Bank became \"critically undercapitalized,\" it would also be subject to the appointment of a conservator or receiver.. Recent national and state legislation and regulatory initiatives to support the financial services industry have been coupled with numerous restrictions and requirements that could detrimentally affect the Company's business.. The Dodd-Frank Act is having a substantial impact on the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a framework through which regulatory reform is being written.  Many of the rules required by the Dodd-Frank Act have been implemented and others are still being drafted.  As a result, the impact of the future regulatory requirements continues to be uncertain. We expect the way we conduct business to continue to be affected by these regulatory requirements.. Recent legislative initiatives to support housing finance, both state and federal, could detrimentally affect the Company's business.. Legislative initiatives could detrimentally impact the Company in the future.  The extent of the impact of any such legislation will be dependent on the specific details of the final legislation passed, if any.. The Company faces strong competition from other financial institutions and new market participants, offering services similar to those offered by the Bank.. Many competitors offer the types of loans and deposit services that the Company offers. These competitors include other national banks, savings associations, community banks, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. In particular, the Company's competitors include national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, recent technological breakthroughs have made it possible for other non-traditional competitors to enter the marketplace and compete for traditional banking services.  Increased competition within the Company's market area may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete with full success against current and future competitors.. The Company's deposit insurance premiums could increase further in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on future earnings and financial condition.. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (\"DIF\") at a specific level. The Bank's FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially beginning in 2009, and it expects to pay significant premiums in the future. Unfavorable economic conditions, increased bank failures and additional failures decreased the DIF. In order to restore the DIF to its statutorily mandated minimum of 1.35% of total deposits by September 30, 2020, the FDIC may need to increase deposit insurance premium rates.  Insured institutions with assets of $10 billion or more are responsible for funding this increase. The FDIC has issued regulations to implement these provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  It has, in addition, established a higher reserve ratio of 2% as a long-term. 31. goal which goes beyond what is required by statute.  There is no implementation deadline for the 2% ratio.  The FDIC may increase the assessment rates or impose additional special assessments in the future to keep the DIF at the statutory target level. Any increase in the Bank's FDIC premiums could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. Non-Compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Truth-in-Lending Act, Community Reinvestment Act, Fair Lending Laws, Flood Insurance Reform Act or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions, and curtail expansion opportunities.. Financial institutions are required under the USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money-laundering and terrorist activities. Financial institutions are also obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network if such activities are detected. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure or the inability to comply with the USA PATRIOT Act and BSA statutes and regulations could result in fines or penalties, curtailment of expansion opportunities, enforcement actions, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. During the last few years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. In addition, the U.S. Government imposed and will continue to expand laws and regulations relating to residential and consumer lending activities that create significant new compliance burdens and financial risks.. The Company developed policies and it continues to augment procedures and systems designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations. As previously disclosed, the Company announced on September 27, 2017 that the Bank is taking steps to remediate certain issues with respect to its procedures, systems and processes relating to its BSA program and that the likely impact of those measures on regulatory approvals of its proposed acquisition of Anchor had led it to withdraw regulatory applications related to the Merger. The Bank's remediation measures will result in increased expense to the Bank. Such expenses have not been material to results of operations thus far but could be substantial over time, and the issues giving rise to those measures could result in other consequences that could adversely affect the Bank such as those outlined in the preceding paragraph.. The Company is subject to a variety of operational risks, including legal and compliance risk, fraud and theft risk and the risk of operational errors, which may adversely affect its business and results of operations.. The Company is, from time to time, subject to claims and proceedings related to its operations.  These claims and legal actions, which could include supervisory or enforcement actions by its regulators, or criminal proceedings by prosecutorial authorities, could involve large monetary claims, including civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities, and significant defense costs.  To mitigate the cost of some of these claims, the Company maintains insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that it believes is appropriate for its operations.. Both internal and external fraud and theft are risks.  If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers were to be mishandled or misused, the Company could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss.  Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of its systems, employees, or counterparties, or if such information were to be intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.. Operational errors include clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems.  Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified.  Because of the Company's large transaction volume and its necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process these transactions there is a risk that technical flaws or tampering or manipulation of those automated systems arising from events wholly or partially beyond its control may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability.  The Company is exposed to the risk that its business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate.. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability for the Company to operate its business, additional costs to correct defects, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially.. There may be future sales or other dilution of the Company's equity, which may adversely affect the market price of its common stock.. The Company is not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common or of preferred stock or convertible securities or the exercise of such securities could be substantially dilutive to Shareholders of the Company's common stock. For instance, exercise of the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with its participation. 32. in the Capital Purchase Program diluted the value of the Company's common stock. Holders of the Company's shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to its Shareholders."
