[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The following risk factors, among others, could materially affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows.  These risk factors may describe situations beyond our control and you should carefully consider them.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be material could also affect our actual results.  We may update these risk factors in our future periodic reports, other filings, and public announcements.. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations. We might not be able to renew leases or relet space at existing properties, or lease newly developed properties.. When leases for our existing properties expire, the premises might not be relet or the terms of reletting, including the cost of tenant allowances and concessions and the size of the space, might be less favorable than the current lease terms, due to strong competition or otherwise.  Also, we might not be able to lease new properties to an appropriate mix of tenants or for rents that are consistent with our projections.  To the extent that our leasing plans are not achieved, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and our operational and strategic objectives may not be achieved readily or at all.. Our lease agreements with our tenants typically provide a fixed rate for certain cost reimbursement charges; if our operating expenses increase or we are otherwise unable to collect sufficient cost reimbursement payments from our tenants, our business, results of operations and financial condition might be materially adversely affected.. Energy costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas of our properties, janitorial services, administrative, property and liability insurance costs and security costs are typically allocable to our properties' tenants.  Our lease agreements typically provide that the tenant is liable for a portion of such common area maintenance charges (which we refer to as \"CAM\") and other operating expenses.  The majority of our current leases require the tenant to pay a fixed periodic amount to reimburse a portion of our CAM and other operating expenses.  In these cases, a tenant will pay either (a) a specified rent amount that includes the fixed CAM and operating expense reimbursement amount, or (b) a fixed expense reimbursement amount separate from the rent payment.  Generally, both types of CAM and operating expense reimbursement payments are subject to annual increases regardless of the actual amount of CAM and other operating expenses.  As a result, any adjustments in tenant payments do not depend on whether operating expenses increase or decrease, causing us to be responsible for any excess amounts.  In the event that our operating expenses increase, CAM and tenant reimbursements that we receive might not allow us to recover a substantial portion of these operating costs.. Additionally, the computation of cost reimbursements from tenants for CAM, insurance and real estate taxes is complex and involves numerous judgments, including interpretation of lease terms and other tenant lease provisions, including those in leases that we assume in connection with property acquisitions.  Unforeseen or underestimated expenses might cause us to collect less than our actual expenses.  The amounts we calculate and bill could also be disputed by tenants or become the subject of a tenant audit or even litigation.  There can be no assurance that we will collect all or substantially all of this amount.. Some of our properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be materially adversely affected by the loss of, or a store closure by, one or more of these anchor stores or major tenants.. Our open air properties and enclosed retail properties are typically anchored by department stores and other large nationally or regionally recognized tenants.  The value of some of our properties could be materially adversely affected if these department stores or major tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations, or cease their operations.. For example, among department stores and other large stores, corporate merger or consolidation activity typically results in the closure of duplicate or geographically overlapping store locations.  Resulting adverse pressure on the businesses of our department stores and major tenants could have an adverse impact upon our own results.  Certain department stores and other national retailers have experienced, and might continue to experience, depending on consumer confidence levels or overall economic conditions, considerable decreases in customer traffic in their retail stores, increased competition from alternative retail options, such as those accessible via the Internet and other mediums, and other forms of pressure on their business models.  Pressure on these department stores and national retailers could impact their ability to maintain their stores, meet their obligations both to us and to their external lenders and suppliers, withstand takeover attempts by investors or rivals or avoid bankruptcy and/or liquidation, all of which could result in impairment or closures of their stores.  Other of our tenants might be entitled to modify the economic or other terms of their existing leases in the event of such closures (through co-tenancy clauses), which could decrease rents and/or operating expense reimbursements.  The leases of some anchors might permit the anchor to transfer its lease, including any attendant approval rights, to another retailer.  The transfer to a new anchor could cause customer traffic in the property to decrease or to be composed of different types of customers, which could reduce the income generated by that property and adversely impact development or re-development prospects for such property.  A transfer of a lease to a new anchor also could allow other tenants to make reduced rental payments or to terminate their leases at the property, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. 8. Additionally, department store or major tenant closures might result in decreased customer traffic, which could lead to decreased sales at our properties and adversely impact our ability to successfully execute our leasing strategy and objectives.  If the sales of stores operating in our properties decline significantly due to the closing of anchor stores or other national retailers, adverse economic conditions, or other reasons, tenants might be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges, which would likely negatively impact our financial results.  In the event of any default by a tenant, whether a department store, national or regional retailer or otherwise, we might not be able to fully recover, and/or experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover, amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with such parties.. We face risks associated with the acquisition, development, re-development and expansion of properties, including risks of higher than projected costs, inability to obtain financing, inability to obtain required consents or approvals and inability to attract tenants at anticipated rates.. In the event we seek to acquire and develop new properties and expand and redevelop existing properties, we might not be successful in identifying or pursuing acquisition, development or re-development/expansion opportunities.  Additionally, newly acquired properties, developed, re-developed or expanded properties might not perform as well as expected.  Other related risks we face include, without limitation, the following:. • Construction and other development costs of a project could be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable;. • We might not be able to obtain financing or to refinance loans on favorable terms, if at all;. • We might be unable to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals, or the approvals obtained may not be adequate;. • Occupancy rates and rents might not meet our projections and as a result the project could be unprofitable; and. • In some cases, we might need the consent of third parties, such as anchor tenants, mortgage lenders and joint venture partners to conduct acquisition, development, re-development or expansion activities, and those consents may be withheld, take an unexpected amount of time to be obtained, or be subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.. If a project is unsuccessful, either because it is not meeting our expectations when operational or was not completed according to the project planning, we could lose our investment in the project or have to incur an impairment charge relating to the asset or development which could then adversely impact our financial results.  Furthermore, if we guarantee the property's financing, our loss could exceed our investment in the project.. Our assets may be subject to impairment charges that may materially affect our financial results.. We evaluate our real estate assets and other assets for impairment indicators whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that recoverability of our investment in the asset is not reasonably assured.  Furthermore, this evaluation is conducted no less frequently than quarterly, irrespective of changes in circumstances.  Our determination of whether a particular held-for-use asset is impaired is based upon the undiscounted projected cash flows used for the impairment analysis and our determination of the asset's estimated fair value, that in turn are based upon our plans for the respective asset and our views of market and economic conditions.  With respect to assets held-for-sale, our determination of whether such an asset is impaired is based upon market and economic conditions.  If we determine that an impairment has occurred, then we would be required under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (\"GAAP\") to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the accounting period in which the adjustment is made.  Furthermore, changes in estimated future cash flows due to a change in our plans, policies, or views of market and economic conditions could result in the recognition of additional impairment losses for already impaired assets, which, under the applicable accounting guidance, could be substantial.  See the \"Impairment\" section within Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of recent impairments.. Our ability to change the composition of our real estate portfolio is limited because real estate investments are relatively illiquid.. Our properties represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets, and these investments are relatively illiquid.  As a result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties or investments in real estate in response to any changes in economic or other conditions is limited.  If we want to sell a property, we cannot be certain that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sale price of a property will exceed the cost of our investment in that property, which may then have an adverse impact on our financial results.. 9. Clauses in leases with certain tenants of our development or redevelopment properties frequently include inducements, such as reduced rent and tenant allowance payments, which can reduce our rents and Funds From Operations (\"FFO\").  As a result, these development or redevelopment properties are more likely to achieve lower returns during their stabilization periods than our previous development or redevelopment properties.. The leases for a number of the tenants that have opened stores at properties we have developed or redeveloped have reduced rent from co-tenancy clauses that allow those tenants to pay reduced rent until occupancy at the respective property reaches certain thresholds and/or certain named co-tenants open stores at the respective property.  Additionally, some tenants may have rent abatement clauses that delay rent commencement for a prolonged period of time after initial occupancy.  The effect of these clauses reduces our rents and FFO while they are applicable.  We expect to continue to offer co-tenancy and rent abatement clauses in the future to attract tenants to our development and redevelopment properties.  As a result, our current and future development and redevelopment properties are more likely to achieve lower returns during their stabilization periods than other projects of this nature historically have, which may adversely impact our investment in such developments, as well as our financial condition and results of operations.. We face a wide range of competition that could affect our ability to operate profitably.. Our properties compete with other retail properties and other forms of retail, such as catalogs and e-commerce websites. Competition could also come from open air properties, outlet centers, lifestyle centers, and enclosed retail properties, and both existing and future development projects.  The presence of competitive alternatives might adversely impact the success of our existing properties, our ability to lease space and the rental rates we can obtain.  We also compete with other retail property developers to acquire prime development sites.  Additionally, we compete with other retail property companies for tenants and qualified management.  If we are unable to successfully compete, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. The increase in and prevalence of digital and mobile technology usage has increased the speed of the transition of a percentage of market share from shopping at physical locations to web-based purchases.  If we are unsuccessful in adapting our business to changing consumer spending habits, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. If we lose our key management personnel, we might not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives.. Our management team has substantial experience in owning, operating, acquiring, and developing enclosed shopping centers and other open-air properties.  A large part of our success depends on the leadership and performance of our executive management team and we cannot guarantee that they will remain with us.  If we unexpectedly lose the services of these individuals, we might not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives.  Additionally, we continue to actively recruit management and other professional talent within the real estate and retail industries necessary to manage our properties to optimal performance.  If we are not able to successfully recruit such personnel or cannot do so readily, this may adversely impact our ability to manage our business, achieve our financial goals, or meet our strategic and operational objectives.. We have limited control with respect to some properties that are partially owned or managed by third parties, which could adversely affect our ability to sell or refinance or otherwise take actions concerning these properties that would be in the best interests of WPG Inc.'s shareholders.. We may continue to co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities, including without limitation by acquiring controlling or non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for, managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity.  At December 31, 2017, we do not have sole decision-making authority regarding 13 unconsolidated properties that we currently hold through joint ventures with third parties.. Additionally, we might not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding any future properties that we hold in a partnership or joint venture.  Investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities could, under certain circumstances, involve risks that would not be present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt, suffer a deterioration in their financial condition, or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions.  Partners or co-venturers could have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our own business interests or goals, and could be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives.. Such investments also have the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, such as a sale or financing, because neither we nor our partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture.  Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers might result in litigation or arbitration that could increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and efforts on our business.  Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. Additionally, we risk the possibility of being liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers.. 10. Our revenues are dependent on the level of revenues realized by our tenants, and a decline in their revenues could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to various risks that affect the retail environment generally, including levels of consumer spending, seasonality, changes in economic conditions, unemployment rates, an increase in the use of the Internet by retailers and consumers, and natural disasters.  Additionally, levels of consumer spending could be adversely affected by, for example, increases in consumer savings rates, increases in tax rates, reduced levels of income growth, interest rate increases, and other declines in consumer net worth and a strengthening of the U.S. dollar as compared to non-U.S. currencies.. As a result of these and other economic and market-based factors, our tenants might be unable to pay their existing minimum rents or expense recovery charges due.  Because substantially all of our income is derived from rentals of commercial real property, our income and cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of tenants are unable to meet their obligations or their revenues decline, especially if they were tenants with a significant number of locations within our portfolio.  Additionally, a decrease in retail demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates.. Store closures and/or bankruptcy filings by tenants could occur during the course of our operations.  We continually seek to re-lease vacant spaces resulting from tenant terminations.  Large scale store closings or the bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, might make it more difficult to lease the remainder of a particular property or properties.  Furthermore, certain of our tenants, including anchor tenants, hold the right under their lease(s) to terminate their lease(s) or reduce their rental rate if certain occupancy conditions are not met, if certain anchor tenants close, if certain sales levels (sales kick-out provisions) or profit margins are not achieved, or if an exclusive use provision is violated, which all could be triggered in the event of one or more tenant bankruptcies.  Future tenant bankruptcies, especially by anchor tenants, could adversely affect our properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy as well as adversely impact our ability to achieve our operational and strategic objectives.. Economic and market conditions could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The market in which we operate is affected by a number of factors that are largely beyond our control but could nevertheless have a significant negative impact on us.  These factors include, but are not limited to:. • Fluctuations or frequent variances in interest rates and credit spreads;. • The availability of credit, including the price, terms and conditions under which it can be obtained;. • A decrease in consumer spending or sentiment, including as a result of increases in savings rates and tax increases, and any effect that this might have on retail activity;. • The actual and perceived state of the real estate market, market for dividend-paying stocks and public capital markets in general; and. • Unemployment rates, both nationwide and within the primary markets in which we operate.. In addition, increased inflation might have a pronounced negative impact on the interest expense we pay in connection with our outstanding indebtedness and our general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents.  Inflation might adversely affect tenant leases with stated rent increases, which could be lower than the increase in inflation at any given time.  Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants' sales and, in turn, our own results of operations.. Conversely, deflation might result in a decline in general price levels, often caused by a decrease in the supply of money or credit.  The predominant effects of deflation are high unemployment, credit contraction and weakened consumer demand.  Restricted lending practices might impact our ability to obtain financing for our properties and might also negatively impact our tenants' ability to obtain credit.  Decreases in consumer demand can have a direct impact on our tenants and the rents we receive.. A slow-growing economy hinders consumer spending, which could decrease the level of discretionary income available for shopping at our properties.  Weak income growth could weigh down consumer spending, which could be further affected if the overall economy suffers a setback.. An increase in market interest rates could increase our interest costs on existing and future debt and could adversely affect WPG Inc.'s common share price.. An environment of rising interest rates could lead holders of our common shares to seek higher yields through other investments, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares.  One of the factors that may influence the price of our common shares in public markets is the annual distribution rate we pay as compared with the yields on alternative investments.  Additionally, increases in market interest rates could result in increased borrowing costs for us, which may adversely affect our cash flow and the amounts available for distributions to our shareholders.. 11. We have significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, including decreasing our business flexibility and increasing our interest expense.. The consolidated indebtedness of our business as of December 31, 2017 was approximately $2.9 billion. We have and will continue to incur various costs and expenses associated with our transactions and executing our operational and fiscal strategy.  Any future increased levels of indebtedness could also reduce access to capital and increase borrowing costs generally, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, tenant improvements, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels.  If we do not achieve our operational and growth goals or if the financial performance of the Company does not meet current expectations, then our ability to service our indebtedness may be adversely impacted.  Lastly, if interest rates increase, the cost of capital and expenses of debt service requirements relating to our variable rate debt, which constitutes 10.4% of our consolidated indebtedness as of December 31, 2017, would increase which could adversely affect our cash flows.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service and repay all of our debt and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our debt, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our debt will depend on our financial condition, liquidity and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.  We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us both to fund our business purposes and to pay the principal of, or premium, if any, and interest on our debt.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service and repay our debt and fund other cash requirements, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt.  We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet all of our debt obligations.  Our unsecured revolving credit facility (the \"Revolver\") and senior unsecured term loan (the \"Term Loan\" and collectively with the Revolver, the \"Facility\") were amended and restated on January 22, 2018 and restrict (i) our ability to dispose of assets and (ii) our ability to incur debt.  We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt obligations then due.. In addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries.  Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make cash available to us to enable us to make payments in respect of our debt.  Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual prohibitions or other restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries.  In the event that our subsidiaries do not make sufficient cash available to us, we may be unable to make required principal, premium, if any, and interest payments on our debt.. Our inability to obtain sufficient cash flows from our subsidiaries, whether as a result of their performance or otherwise, to satisfy our debt, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position, condition, liquidity and results of operations.. If we fail to make required payments in respect of our debt, (i) we will be in default thereunder and, as a result, the related debt holders and lenders, and potentially other debt holders and lenders, could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, (ii) the lenders under the Revolver could terminate their commitments to loan money to us, (iii) our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing the related debt, (iv) could result in cross defaults on other financing obligations or defaults in other transactional arrangements we have; and (v) we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Despite current and anticipated debt levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt.. We may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future.  Although the Facility and the WPG L.P. notes restrict the incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the additional debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.  If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase.. We depend on external financings for our growth and ongoing debt service requirements.. We depend on external financings, principally debt financings, to fund our acquisitions, development and other capital expenditures and to ensure that we can meet our debt service requirements.  Our long-term ability to grow through acquisitions or development, which is an important component of our strategy, will be limited if we cannot obtain additional debt financing.  Our access to financings depends on our credit ratings, the willingness of banks to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. Market conditions might make it difficult to obtain debt financing, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional debt financing or that we will be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms.. 12. The agreements that govern our indebtedness contain various covenants that impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries that might affect our or their ability to operate.. We have a variety of debt, including the unsecured Facility, the unsecured WPG L.P. notes, and secured property-level debt.  The agreements that govern such indebtedness contain various affirmative and negative covenants that could, subject to certain significant exceptions, restrict our ability and certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things, have liens on property, incur additional indebtedness, make loans, advances or other investments, make non-ordinary course asset sales, and/or merge or consolidate with any other entity or sell or convey certain assets to any one person or entity.  Additionally, some of the agreements that govern the debt financing contain financial covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios.  Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to comply with these provisions might be affected by events beyond our control.  Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate our repayment obligations.. If we cannot obtain additional capital, our growth might be limited.. In order to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT each year, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to our shareholders.  As a result, our retained earnings available to fund acquisitions, development, or other capital expenditures are nominal, and we rely upon the availability of additional debt or equity capital to fund these activities.  Our long-term ability to grow through acquisitions, development, or strategic partnerships which is an important component of our strategy, will be limited if we cannot obtain additional debt financing or equity capital.  Market conditions might make it difficult to obtain debt financing or raise equity capital, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing or that we will be able to obtain such capital on favorable terms.. Adverse changes in any credit rating might affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms.. Our outstanding debt is periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies.  Our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital.  Our ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet debt obligations. We currently have investment grade credit ratings.  Although we currently hold this rating, we have in the past been subject to downgrades.  There can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future.  Furthermore, the interest rate under the Facility is variable and could increase in the event our credit rating is downgraded, resulting in higher borrowing costs.  An increase in our cost of capital could adversely impact our ability to fund key activities related to achieving our business objectives.. We may enter into hedging interest rate protection arrangements that might not effectively limit our interest rate risk.. We may seek to selectively manage any exposure that we might have to interest rate risk through interest rate protection agreements geared toward effectively fixing or capping a portion of our variable-rate debt.  Additionally, we may refinance fixed-rate debt at times when we believe rates and terms are appropriate.  Any such efforts to manage these exposures might not be successful.. Our potential use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility might expose us to additional risks, including the risk that a counterparty to a hedging arrangement fails to honor its obligations.  Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.  There can be no assurance that hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition.  Termination of these hedging agreements typically involves costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs.. As owners of real estate, we might face liabilities or other significant costs related to environmental issues.. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment might require us, as a current or previous owner or operator of real property, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property or at impacted neighboring properties.  These laws and regulations might require us to abate or remove asbestos containing materials in the event of damage, demolition or renovation, reconstruction or expansion of a property and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air.  These laws and regulations also govern the installation, maintenance and removal of underground storage tanks used to store waste oils or other petroleum products.  Many of our properties contain, or at one time contained, asbestos containing materials or underground storage tanks (primarily related to auto service center establishments or emergency electrical generation equipment).  The costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances could be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  The presence of contamination, or the failure to remediate contamination, might also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or redevelop a property or to borrow using a property as collateral.. 13. In addition, under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate might be held liable to third parties for bodily injury or property damage incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination.  These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or otherwise caused, the release of the hazardous or toxic substances.  The presence of contamination at any of our properties, or the failure to remediate contamination discovered at such properties, could result in significant costs to us and/or materially adversely affect our ability to sell or lease such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral.. For example, federal, state and local laws require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which might be substantial for certain re-developments.  These regulations also govern emissions of, and exposure to, asbestos fibers in the air, which might necessitate implementation of site-specific maintenance practices.  Certain laws also impose liability for the release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties might seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury or property damage associated with asbestos-containing materials.  Asbestos-containing building materials are present at some of our properties and might be present at others.  To minimize the risk of on-site asbestos being improperly disturbed, we have developed and implemented asbestos operations and maintenance programs to manage asbestos-containing materials and suspected asbestos-containing materials in accordance with applicable legal requirements, however we cannot be certain that our programs eliminate all risk of asbestos being improperly disturbed.  Any liability, and the associated costs thereof, we might face for environmental matters could adversely impact our ability to operate our business and our financial condition.. Lastly, in connection with certain mortgages on our properties, our affiliate, Washington Prime Property, L.P., singly, or together with WPG L.P. and certain other affiliates, have executed environmental indemnification agreements to indemnify the respective lenders for those loans against losses or costs to remediate damage to the mortgaged property caused by the presence or release of hazardous materials.. We are subject to various regulatory requirements, and any changes in such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The laws, regulations and policies governing our business, or the regulatory or enforcement environment at the national level or in any of the states in which we operate, might change at any time and could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as it is phased-in over time, might significantly impact our cost of providing employees with health care insurance.  Similarly, its repeal could result in unanticipated administrative costs, disruptions and business inefficiencies that could adversely impact our business and fiscal results.  We are unable to predict how this, or any other future legislative or regulatory proposals or programs, will be administered or implemented, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future.  Additionally, changes in tax laws might have a significant impact on our operating results.  For more information regarding the impact of changing tax laws on our operating results, please refer to the risk factors section titled \"Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT.\". Also, we may be required to expend significant sums of money to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (\"ADA\"), and other federal, state, and local laws in order for our properties and facilities to meet requirements related to access and use by physically challenged persons. Additionally, unanticipated costs and expenses may be incurred in connection with defending lawsuits relating to ADA compliance not covered by our liability insurance.. Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations and on our reputation generally.  We are unable to give any assurances that applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently, or that new laws and regulations will not be adopted, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Some of our potential losses might not be covered by insurance.. We maintain insurance coverage with financially-sound insurers for property, third-party liability, terrorism, workers compensation, and rental loss insurance on all of our properties.  However, certain catastrophic perils are subject to large deductibles that may cause an adverse impact on our operating results.  Additionally, there are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, that generally are not insured.  If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, or a loss for which there is a large deductible occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue it could generate.. We currently maintain insurance coverage for acts of terrorism by foreign or domestic agents.  The United States government provides reinsurance coverage to insurance companies following a declared terrorism event under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act, which extended the effectiveness of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act (which we refer to as the \"TRIA\") of 2005.  The TRIA is designed to reinsure the insurance industry from declared terrorism events that cause or create in excess of $100 million in damages or losses.  The U.S. government could terminate its reinsurance of terrorism, thus increasing the risk of uninsured losses for such acts.  Our tenants are likely subject to similar risks.. 14. We face possible risks associated with climate change.. We cannot determine with certainty whether global warming or cooling is occurring and, if so, at what rate. To the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our properties in certain markets and regions could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea-levels. Over time, these conditions could result in volatile or decreased demand for retail space at certain of our properties or, in extreme cases, our inability to operate the properties at all. Climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) insurance on favorable terms and increasing the cost of energy and snow removal at our properties. Moreover, compliance with new laws or regulations related to climate change, including compliance with \"green\" building codes, may require us to make improvements to our existing properties or increase taxes and fees assessed on us or our properties. At this time, there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on us.. Some of our properties are subject to potential natural or other disasters.. A number of our properties are located in Florida, California, Texas, and Hawaii or in other areas with a higher risk of natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, or tsunamis. The occurrence of natural disasters can adversely impact operations, redevelopment, or development at our centers and projects, increase investment costs to repair or replace damaged properties, increase future property insurance costs, and negatively impact the tenant demand for lease space. Additionally, some of our properties are located in coastal regions, and would therefore be affected by any future increases in sea levels. If insurance is unavailable to us or is unavailable on acceptable terms, or our insurance is not adequate to cover losses from these events, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our due diligence review of acquisition opportunities or other transactions might not identify all pertinent risks, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Although we intend to conduct due diligence with respect to each acquisition opportunity or other transaction that we pursue, it is possible that our due diligence processes will not or did not uncover all relevant facts, particularly with respect to any assets we acquire from unaffiliated third parties.  In some cases, we might be given limited access to information about the investment and will rely on information provided by the target of the investment.  Additionally, if opportunities are scarce, the process for selecting bidders is competitive, or the time frame in which we are required to complete diligence is short, our ability to conduct a due diligence investigation might be limited, and we would be required to make investment decisions based upon a less thorough diligence process than would otherwise be the case.  Accordingly, investments and other transactions that initially appear to be viable may prove to not be so over time, due to the limitations of the due diligence process or other factors.. Management and administrative services provided by unaffiliated persons or entities to one or more of the WPG Legacy Properties between May 28, 2014 and March 31, 2016 (the \"Service Period\") may have been provided in such a manner that requires personnel of WPG (or any affiliate) to address issues, problems, or disputes that arose during the Service Period and were not addressed resulting in our expenditure of time, capital and resources to address such matters to a degree that could materially affect our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We depended on unaffiliated persons or entities to provide certain services in connection with their operation and management of the WPG Legacy Properties during the Service Period.  These services included, but were not limited to, promoting the respective property through advertisements, leasing the WPG Legacy Properties, billing tenants for rent and all other charges, paying the salaries of persons responsible for management of the WPG Legacy Properties, making such infrastructure repairs as approved in the fiscal budget for the WPG Legacy Properties, maintenance and payment of any taxes or fees.. In the event there were isolated or perhaps even systemic instances of the aforementioned services being provided in a manner inconsistent with WPG's current business practices, philosophy or standards due to the inattention, underperformance, mismanagement, or deficit service, WPG personnel would, upon assuming management and operational control of the WPG Legacy Properties, which we did by March 31, 2016, have to address one or more issues, problems, or disputes that arose during the Service Period and were not addressed resulting in our expenditure of time, capital and resources to resolve such matters to a degree that could materially affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations as well as the optimal operation of one or more of the WPG Legacy Properties.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue paying distributions at the current rate.. We have maintained a policy to pay a quarterly cash distribution at an annualized rate of $1.00 per common share/unit and intend to pay the same distribution going forward.  However, holders of our common shares/units may not receive the same quarterly distributions for various reasons, including the following:. • We may not have enough cash to pay such distributions due to changes in our cash requirements, indebtedness, capital spending plans, cash flows or financial position;. 15. • Decisions on whether, when and in what amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of WPG Inc.'s Board of Directors, which reserves the right to change dividend practices at any time and for any reason;. • We may desire to retain cash to maintain or improve our credit ratings or to address costs related to implementing our growth strategy or executing on our operational strategy; and. • The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be subject to restrictions imposed by law, regulation or the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur.. Our shareholders/unitholders have no contractual or other legal right to distributions that have not been declared.. Risks associated with the implementation of new information systems or upgrades to existing systems may interfere with our operations or ability to maintain adequate records.. We are continuing to implement new information systems and upgrades to existing systems as part of our growing business and problems with the design as well as the security or implementation of these new or upgraded systems could interfere with our operations or ability to maintain adequate and secure records.. The occurrence of cyber incidents, a deficiency in our cyber security, or a data breach could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our financial results.. A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources. More specifically, a cyber-incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupting data, or stealing confidential information. We rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information, some of which may be confidential and/or proprietary, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. Primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber-incident include, but are not limited to, operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our tenants and other business partners, and private data exposure (including personally identifiable information, or proprietary and confidential information, of ours and our employees, as well as third parties). Any such incidents could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, and reduce the benefits of our advanced technologies. We carry cyber liability insurance; however a loss could exceed the limits of the policy. We have implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks, but these measures, our increased awareness of a risk of a cyber-incident, and our insurance coverage, do not guarantee that our financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and WPG Inc.'s share price.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act and are required to prepare our financial statements according to the rules and regulations required by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\"). Additionally, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports.  Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner or to otherwise comply with applicable law could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing.. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we, among other things, establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and disclosure purposes.  Internal control over financial reporting is complex and may be revised over time to adapt to changes in our business, or changes in applicable accounting rules.  We cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future or that a material weakness will not be discovered with respect to a prior period for which we had previously believed that internal controls were effective.  If we are not able to maintain or document effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future reports, when such certifications will be required.. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, or may cause our company to restate previously issued financial information, and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules.  There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in our company and the reliability of our financial statements.  Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm report a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting or if the firm resigns in light of such a weakness.  This could materially adversely affect our company by, for example, leading to a decline in WPG Inc.'s share price and impairing our ability to raise additional capital.. 16. Risks Related to the Separation from SPG. Potential indemnification liabilities to SPG pursuant to the Separation Agreement could materially adversely affect our operations.. The Separation Agreement with SPG provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect the separation, certain conditions to the separation and distribution and provisions governing our relationship with SPG with respect to and following the separation and distribution.  Among other things, the Separation Agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the separation and distribution, as well as those obligations of SPG that we will assume pursuant to the Separation Agreement.  If we are required to indemnify SPG under the circumstances set forth in this agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities.. In connection with our separation from SPG, SPG will indemnify us for certain pre-distribution liabilities and liabilities related to SPG assets. However, there can be no assurance that these indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that SPG's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future.. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, SPG has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities.  However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that SPG agrees to retain, and there can be no assurance that SPG will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations.  Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from SPG any amounts for which we are held liable, such indemnification may be insufficient to fully offset the financial impact of such liabilities and/or we may be temporarily required to bear these losses while seeking recovery from SPG.. We have a limited history operating as an independent company, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.. The historical information about us in this Form 10-K prior to May 28, 2014 is derived from the historical accounting records of SPG and refers to our business as operated by and integrated with SPG.  Some of our historical financial information included in this annual report is derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of SPG.  Accordingly, the historical and financial information does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future.  Factors which could cause our results to differ from those reflected in such historical financial information and which may adversely impact our ability to receive similar results in the future include, but are not limited to, the following:. • Prior to the separation, a portion of our current business had been operated by SPG as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent, stand-alone company. SPG or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, such as accounting, property management, information technology, legal, and finance.  Following the separation, SPG provided some of these functions to us.  Our historical financial results for periods prior to the separation from SPG reflect allocations of corporate expenses from SPG for such functions and are likely to be less than the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate, publicly traded company.  We have and will continue to make significant investments to replicate or outsource from other providers certain facilities, systems, infrastructure, and personnel to which we no longer have access after our separation from SPG.  Developing our ability to operate without access to SPG's current operational and administrative infrastructure has been challenging;. • During the time our business was integrated with the other businesses of SPG, we were able to use SPG's size and purchasing power in procuring various goods and services and shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships.  For example, we were historically able to take advantage of SPG's purchasing power in technology and services, including information technology, marketing, insurance, treasury services, property support and the procurement of goods.  We entered into certain transition and other separation-related agreements with SPG, however these agreements have either expired or been terminated and we may not continue to fully capture the benefits we enjoyed as a result of being integrated with SPG and might result in us paying higher charges than in the past for these services.  As a separate, independent company, we may be unable to on a consistent, sustainable and long-term basis obtain goods and services at the prices and terms obtained prior to the separation, which could decrease our overall profitability.  As a separate, independent company, we may also not be as successful on a consistent, sustainable and long-term basis in negotiating favorable tax treatments and credits with governmental entities.  Likewise, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain desired tenants on a consistent, sustainable and long-term basis.  This could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition following the completion of the separation;. 17. • Before the separation, generally our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, research and development, and capital expenditures, were historically satisfied as part of SPG's cash management policies.  Since the separation, we have been and may continue to be required to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements, which might not be on terms as favorable to those obtained by SPG, and the cost of capital for our business may be higher than SPG's cost of capital prior to the separation; and. • As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act and are required to prepare our financial statements according to the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC.  Complying with these requirements could result in significant costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities.. Other significant changes have occurred and may continue to occur in our cost structure, management, strategic transactions, financing and business operations as a result of operating as an independent company.  For additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of presentation of the historical combined financial statements of our business, please refer to \"Selected Financial Data,\" \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the historical financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.. Risks Related to WPG Inc.'s Status as a REIT. If WPG Inc. fails to remain qualified as a REIT, it will be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face substantial tax liability, which would substantially reduce funds available for distribution to its shareholders and result in other negative consequences.. If WPG Inc. were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to its shareholders would not be deductible by WPG Inc. in computing its taxable income.  Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to WPG Inc.'s shareholders, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the value of, and trading prices for, WPG Inc.'s common shares.  Unless WPG Inc. is deemed to be entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Code, it would also be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which it initially ceased to qualify as a REIT.. Furthermore, the NYSE requires, as a condition to the listing of WPG Inc.'s common shares, that WPG Inc. maintain its REIT status.  Consequently, if WPG Inc. fails to maintain its REIT status, its common shares could promptly be delisted from the NYSE, which would decrease the trading activity of such common shares, making the sale of such common shares difficult.. Dividends paid by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. Dividends paid by certain non-REIT corporations to their shareholders that are individuals, trusts and estates are generally taxed at reduced tax rates.  Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates.  The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the shares of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including WPG Inc.'s common shares.. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code.. Qualifying as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist.  Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize WPG Inc.'s REIT qualification. WPG Inc.'s qualification as a REIT will depend on WPG Inc.'s satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis.  Compliance with these requirements must be carefully monitored on a continuing basis, and there can be no assurance that WPG Inc.'s personnel responsible for doing so will be able to successfully monitor WPG Inc.'s compliance, despite clauses in the property management agreements requiring such monitoring.  Additionally, WPG Inc.'s ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify to be taxed as a REIT might depend, in part, on the actions of third parties over which we have either no control or only limited influence.. Monitoring REIT qualification for both WPG Inc. as well as the separate individual REITs within joint venture arrangements adds compliance complexity.. REIT compliance is required to be tested for WPG Inc. as well as any subsidiary REIT within our structure. Each REIT's compliance is tested and determined separately. Therefore the subsidiary REITs have a lower materiality threshold. If one of the subsidiary REITs failed to be REIT compliant it may impact the REIT status of WPG Inc.. 18. Legislative, administrative, regulatory or other actions affecting REITs, including positions taken by the IRS, could have a negative effect on WPG Inc.. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the \"Treasury\").  On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law by the U.S. President.  Although we are not aware of any provision in the final tax reform legislation or any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our ability to operate as a REIT, changes to the tax laws or interpretations thereof by the IRS and the Treasury, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect WPG Inc.'s investors or WPG Inc.  WPG Inc. cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect its investors or WPG Inc. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect WPG Inc.'s ability to qualify to be taxed as a REIT and/or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to WPG Inc.'s investors and WPG Inc. of such qualification.. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect stockholders.. Future changes to tax laws may adversely affect the taxation of the REIT, its subsidiaries or its stockholders. These changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets.  These potential changes could generally result in REITs having fewer tax advantages, and may lead REITs to determine that it would be more advantageous to elect to be taxed, for federal income tax purposes, as a corporation.. Not all states automatically conform to changes in the Internal Revenue Code. Some states use the legislative process to decide whether it is in their best interests to conform or not to various provisions of the Code. This could increase the complexity of our compliance efforts, increase compliance costs, and may subject us to additional taxes and audit risk.. WPG Inc.'s REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to execute our business plan.. In order for WPG Inc. to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, and assuming that certain other requirements are also satisfied, it generally must distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, to its shareholders each year, so that U.S. federal corporate income tax does not apply to earnings that it distributes.  To the extent that WPG Inc. satisfies this distribution requirement and qualifies for taxation as a REIT, but distributes less than 100% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and including any net capital gains, it will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on its undistributed net taxable income.  Additionally, WPG Inc. will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that it distributes to its shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws.  WPG Inc. intends to make distributions to its shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code.. From time to time, WPG Inc. might generate taxable income greater than its cash flow as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves, or required debt or amortization payments.  If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices, distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, or make taxable distributions of WPG Inc.'s capital stock or debt securities to make distributions sufficient to enable WPG Inc. to pay out enough of its taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year.  These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity.  Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities.  Thus, compliance with WPG Inc.'s REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of WPG Inc.'s shares.  Any restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make certain distributions could preclude WPG Inc. from meeting the 90% distribution requirement.  Decreases in funds from operations due to unfinanced expenditures for acquisitions of properties or increases in the number of shares outstanding without commensurate increases in funds from operations each would adversely affect WPG Inc.'s ability to maintain distributions to its shareholders.  Consequently, there can be no assurance that WPG Inc. will be able to make distributions at the anticipated distribution rate or any other rate.. Even if WPG Inc. remains qualified as a REIT, it could face other tax liabilities that reduce its cash flows.. Even if WPG Inc. remains qualified for taxation as a REIT, it could be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on its income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income and state or local income, property and transfer taxes.  For example, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, WPG Inc. may hold some of its assets or conduct certain of its activities through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (\"TRSs\") or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to federal, state and local corporate-level income taxes as regular C corporations.  Additionally, WPG Inc. might incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with a TRS if they are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.  Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to WPG Inc.'s shareholders.. 19. Complying with WPG Inc.'s REIT requirements might cause us to forego otherwise attractive acquisition opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. To qualify to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, WPG Inc. must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of its assets consist of cash, cash items, government securities and \"real estate assets\" (as defined in the Code), including certain mortgage loans and securities.  The remainder of WPG Inc.'s investments (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer.. Additionally, in general, no more than 5% of the value of WPG Inc.'s total assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% (20% as of January 1, 2018) of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs.  If WPG Inc. fails to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, it must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing its REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences.  As a result, we might be required to liquidate or forego otherwise attractive investments.  These actions could have the effect of reducing WPG Inc.'s income and amounts available for distribution to its shareholders.. In addition to the asset tests set forth above, to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, WPG Inc. must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of its income, the amounts it distributes to its shareholders and the ownership of its shares. We might be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements of WPG Inc. for qualifying as a REIT.  Thus, compliance with WPG Inc.'s REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments.. Complying with WPG Inc.'s REIT requirements might limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause WPG Inc. to incur tax liabilities.. The REIT provisions of the Code to which WPG Inc. must adhere substantially limit our ability to hedge our assets and liabilities.  Income from certain potential hedging transactions that we may enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets or from transactions to manage risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that satisfy WPG Inc.'s REIT gross income tests (including gain from the termination of such a transaction) does not constitute \"gross income\" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests that apply to REITs, provided that certain identification requirements are met.  To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions or fail to properly identify such transaction as a hedge, the income is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of WPG Inc.'s gross income tests.. As a result of these rules, we might be required to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a total return swap.  This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because the total return swap may be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. Additionally, losses in the total return swap will generally not provide any tax benefit, except that such losses could theoretically be carried back or forward against WPG Inc.'s past or future taxable income in the total return swap.. The share ownership limit imposed by the Code for REITs, and WPG Inc.'s amended and restated articles of incorporation, may inhibit market activity in WPG Inc.'s shares and restrict our business combination opportunities.. In order for WPG Inc. to maintain its qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of its outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year after its first taxable year.  WPG Inc.'s amended and restated articles of incorporation, with certain exceptions, authorize its Board of Directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve its qualification as a REIT.  Unless exempted by WPG Inc.'s Board of Directors, no person may own more than 8%, or 18% in the case of certain family members and other related persons of Mr. David Simon, the current Chairman and CEO of SPG and former member of our Board of Directors, of any class of WPG Inc.'s capital stock or any combination thereof, determined by the number of shares outstanding, voting power or value (as determined by WPG Inc.'s Board of Directors), whichever produces the smallest holding of capital stock under the three methods, computed with regard to all outstanding shares of capital stock and, to the extent provided by the Code, all shares of WPG Inc.'s capital stock issuable under outstanding options and exchange rights that have not been exercised.  WPG Inc.'s Board of Directors may grant an exemption in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine in its sole discretion.  These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for WPG Inc.'s common shares or otherwise be in the best interest of WPG Inc.'s shareholders.. 20. Risks Related to Our Common and Preferred Shares/Units. We cannot guarantee the timing, amount, or payment of distributions on our common shares/units.. Although we expect to pay regular cash distributions, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future distributions to shareholders will fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors.  Our Board of Directors' decisions regarding the payment of distributions will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, limitations under our financing arrangements, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other factors that it deems relevant.  Our ability to pay distributions will depend on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and access capital markets.  We cannot guarantee that we will pay a distribution in the future or continue to pay any distribution at a particular rate.. The market value or trading price of our preferred and Common Shares could decrease based upon uncertainty in the marketplace and market perception.. The market price of our common and preferred shares may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control or influence. Additionally, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common and preferred shares. Among the factors that could adversely affect the market price of our common and preferred shares are:. • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;. • changes in our FFO, revenue, or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REITs;. • negative speculation or information in the media or investment community;. • any changes in our distribution or dividend policy;. • any sale or disposal of properties within our portfolio;. • any future issuances of equity securities;. • increases in leverage, mortgage debt financing, or outstanding borrowings;. • strategic actions by our Company or our competitors, such as acquisitions, joint ventures, or restructurings;. • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the real estate industry;. • proposed or adopted regulatory or legislative changes or developments; or. • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involves or affect us.. WPG Inc.'s cash available for distribution to shareholders might be insufficient to pay distributions at any particular levels or in amounts sufficient in order for WPG Inc. to maintain its REIT qualification, which could require us to borrow funds in order to make such distributions.. As a REIT, WPG Inc. is required to distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders.  WPG Inc. intends to make regular quarterly distributions whereby it expects to distribute at least 100% of its REIT taxable income to its shareholders out of assets legally available thereof.  Based on the amount of its REIT taxable income for the year ended December 31, 2017, WPG Inc.'s annual dividend of $1.00 per share satisfied this requirement.  However, WPG Inc.'s ability to make distributions could be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are not within its control.  For example, in the event of downturns in its financial condition or operating results, economic conditions or otherwise, WPG Inc. might be unable to declare or pay distributions to its shareholders to the extent required to maintain its REIT qualification.  WPG Inc. might be required either to fund distributions from borrowings under the Revolver or to reduce its distributions.  If we borrow to fund WPG Inc.'s distributions, our interest costs could increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been.. In addition, some of WPG Inc.'s distributions may include a return of capital.  To the extent that WPG Inc. makes distributions in excess of its current and accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes), such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent of the holder's adjusted tax basis in its shares.  A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing the holder's adjusted tax basis in its investment. To the extent that distributions exceed the adjusted tax basis of a holder's shares, the distributions will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such shares.. 21. Your percentage of ownership in WPG Inc. may be diluted in the future.. In the future, your percentage ownership in us may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise.  WPG Inc. also regularly grants compensatory equity awards to directors, officers, employees, advisors, and consultants who are eligible to receive such awards.  Such awards will have a dilutive effect on WPG Inc.'s earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of WPG Inc.'s common shares.. In addition, WPG Inc.'s amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize WPG Inc. to issue, without the approval of its shareholders, one or more additional classes or series of preferred shares having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common shares respecting dividends and distributions, as WPG Inc.'s Board of Directors generally may determine.. The terms of one or more such classes or series of preferred shares could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of WPG Inc.'s common shares.  For example, WPG Inc. could grant the holders of preferred shares the right to elect some number of WPG Inc. directors in all events or on the occurrence of specified events, or the right to veto specified transactions.  Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred shares could affect the residual value of the common shares.. Certain provisions in WPG Inc.'s amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws, and provisions of Indiana law, might prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of WPG Inc.'s common shares.. WPG Inc.'s amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws contain, and Indiana law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with WPG Inc.'s Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover.  These provisions include, among others:. • The inability of WPG Inc.'s shareholders to call a special meeting;. • Restrictions on the ability of WPG Inc.'s shareholders to act by written consent without a meeting;. • Advance notice requirements and other limitations on the ability of shareholders to present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings;. • The right of WPG Inc.'s Board of Directors to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval;. • Limitations on the ability of WPG Inc.'s shareholders to remove directors;. • The ability of WPG Inc.'s directors, and not shareholders, to fill vacancies on WPG Inc.'s Board of Directors;. • Restrictions on the number of shares of capital stock that individual shareholders may own;. • Supermajority vote requirements for shareholders to amend certain provisions of WPG Inc.'s amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws;. • Limitations on the exercise of voting rights in respect of any \"control shares\" acquired in a control share acquisition, which WPG Inc. has currently opted out of in WPG Inc.'s amended and restated bylaws but which could apply to WPG Inc. in the future; and. • Restrictions on an \"interested shareholder\" to engage in certain business combinations with WPG Inc. for a five-year period following the date the interested shareholder became such.. We believe these provisions will protect WPG Inc.'s shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with WPG Inc.'s Board of Directors and by providing WPG Inc.'s Board of Directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal.  These provisions are not intended to make the company immune from takeovers.  However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that WPG Inc.'s Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of WPG Inc. and its shareholders.  These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.. Several of the agreements that we entered into with SPG in connection with the separation require SPG's consent to any assignment by us of our rights and obligations under the agreements, but these agreements generally expired within two years of May 28, 2014, except for certain agreements that continue for longer terms.  These agreements include the Separation Agreement and the Tax Matters Agreement.  The consent and termination rights set forth in these agreements might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable.. In addition, an acquisition or further issuance of WPG Inc.'s common shares could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Code.  Under the tax related agreement(s) we had with SPG following the separation, we would be required to indemnify SPG for any resulting taxes and related amounts, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable.. 22. Certain provisions in WPG L.P.'s amended and restated limited partnership agreement may limit our ability to execute transactions that you may consider favorable.. WPG L.P.'s amended and restated limited partnership agreement, as amended (the \"Partnership Agreement\") provides that we must obtain the approval of a majority of the units of limited partnership interest held by limited partners in order to merge or consolidate WPG L.P. or voluntarily sell or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of the assets of WPG L.P. In addition, during all periods in which Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon and David Simon and members of their immediate families (and including their lineal descendants, trusts established for their benefit and entities controlled by them), collectively, hold at least 10% of the partnership units in WPG L.P., the Partnership Agreement requires that WPG L.P. obtain the consent of the Simons holding more than 50% of the partnership units then held by the Simons prior to, among other things, selling, exchanging, transferring or otherwise disposing of all or substantially all of the assets of WPG L.P.  David Simon (or such other person as may be designated by the holders of more than 50% of the partnership units held by the Simons) has been granted authority by those limited partners who are Simons to grant and withhold consent on behalf of the Simons whenever such consent of the Simons is required.  Because WPG L.P.'s assets comprise substantially all of our assets, these restrictions could limit our ability to sell or transfer all or substantially all of our assets, or impact the manner in which we do so, even if some of our shareholders believe that doing so would be in our and their best interests.. WPG Inc.'s substantial shareholders may exert influence over our company that may be adverse to our best interests and those of WPG Inc.'s other shareholders.. A substantial portion of WPG Inc.'s outstanding common shares are held by a relatively small group of shareholders.  This concentration of ownership may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of some or all of these shareholders.  For example, the concentration of ownership held by the substantial shareholders, even if they are not acting in a coordinated manner, could allow them to influence our policies and strategy and could delay, defer or prevent a change of control or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that may otherwise be favorable to us and our other shareholders. Additionally, the interests of any of WPG Inc.'s substantial shareholders, or any of their respective affiliates, could conflict with or differ from the interests of WPG Inc.'s other shareholders or the other substantial shareholders.  A substantial shareholder or affiliate thereof may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us."
