[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Business Risk Factors. Supplier Concentration. The Company's top ten suppliers accounted for 84% of our purchases during 2017, including 62% from Carrier, and 10% from Rheem. Given the significant concentration of our supply chain, particularly with Carrier and Rheem, any significant interruption by any of the key manufacturers or a termination of a relationship could temporarily disrupt the operations of certain of our subsidiaries. Additionally, our operations are materially dependent upon the continued market acceptance and quality of these manufacturers' products and their ability to continue to manufacture products that are competitive and that comply with laws relating to environmental and efficiency standards. Our inability to obtain products from one or more of these manufacturers or a decline in market acceptance of these manufacturers' products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity.. 10. Many HVAC equipment and component manufacturers, including Carrier and Rheem, source component parts and/or assemble a significant amount of products for residential and light-commercial applications from Mexico. If any restrictions or significant increases in tariffs are imposed related to such products sourced or assembled from Mexico, whether as a result of amendments to existing trade agreements or the elimination of NAFTA, and our product costs consequently increase, we would be required to raise our prices, which may result in cost inflation, the loss of customers, and harm to our business.. We maintain trade name and distribution agreements with Carrier and Rheem that provide us distribution rights on an exclusive basis in specified territories. Such agreements are not subject to a stated term or expiration date.. We also maintain other distribution agreements with various other suppliers, either on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis, for various terms ranging from one to ten years. Certain of the distribution agreements contain provisions that restrict or limit the sale of competitive products in the locations that sell such branded products. Other than where such location-level restrictions apply, we may distribute other manufacturers' lines of air conditioning or heating equipment in other locations in the same territories.. Risks Inherent in Acquisitions. As part of our strategy, we intend to pursue additional acquisitions of complementary businesses, including through joint ventures and investments in unconsolidated entities. If we complete future acquisitions, including investments in unconsolidated entities, or enter into new joint ventures, we may be required to incur or assume additional debt and/or issue additional shares of our common stock as consideration, which will dilute our existing shareholders' ownership interest and may affect our results of operations. Growth through acquisitions involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the following:. <U+0095>   the ability to identify and consummate transactions with complementary acquisition candidates;. <U+0095>   the successful operation and/or integration of acquired companies;. <U+0095>   diversion of management's attention from other daily functions;. <U+0095>   issuance by us of equity securities that would dilute ownership of our existing shareholders;. <U+0095>   incurrence and/or assumption of significant debt and contingent liabilities; and. <U+0095>   possible loss of key employees and/or customer relationships of the acquired companies.. In addition, acquired companies and investments made in unconsolidated entities may have liabilities that we failed or were unable to discover while performing due diligence investigations. We cannot assure you that the indemnification, if any, granted to us by sellers of acquired companies or by joint venture partners will be sufficient in amount, scope, or duration to offset the possible liabilities associated with businesses or properties that we assume upon consummation of an acquisition or joint venture. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Failure to successfully manage the operational challenges and risks associated with, or resulting from, acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity.. Competition. We operate in highly competitive environments. We compete with other distributors and several air conditioning and heating equipment manufacturers that distribute a significant portion of their products through their own distribution organizations in certain markets. Competition within any given geographic market is based upon product availability, customer service, price, and quality. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause our products or services to lose market acceptance or result in significant price erosion, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity.. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations. The functional currency of our operations in Canada is the Canadian dollar, and the functional currency of our operations in Mexico is the U.S. dollar because the majority of our Mexican transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars. Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on transactions denominated in Canadian dollars and Mexican Pesos, and, therefore, could adversely affect our financial performance. Although we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate movements, we do not currently hold any derivative contracts that hedge our foreign currency translational exposure.. 11. Seasonality. Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal, resulting in fluctuations in our revenue from quarter to quarter. Furthermore, profitability can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on the severity or mildness of weather patterns during Summer or Winter selling seasons. Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter. Demand related to the new construction sectors throughout most of the markets is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year except for dependence on housing completions, and related weather and economic conditions.. Dependence on Key Personnel. Much of our success has depended on the skills and experience of senior management personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. We must continuously recruit, retain, and motivate management and other employees to both maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. Our success has also depended on the contributions and abilities of our store employees upon whom we rely to give customers a superior in-store experience. Accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores. If we are unable to adequately recruit, retain, and motivate employees our projected growth and expansion, and our business and financial performance may be adversely affected.. Decline in Economic Conditions. We rely predominantly on the credit markets and, to a lesser extent, on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. Access to funds under our line of credit is dependent on the ability of the syndicate banks to meet their respective funding commitments. Disruptions in the credit and capital markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our line of credit and may also affect the determination of certain interest rates, particularly rates based on LIBOR, which is one of the base rates under our line of credit. Any disruptions in these markets could result in increased borrowing costs and/or reduced borrowing capacity under our line of credit. Any long-term disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize, or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include reducing or eliminating dividend payments, deferring capital expenditures, and reducing or eliminating other discretionary uses of cash.. A decline in economic conditions and lack of availability of business and consumer credit could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any capital and credit market disruption could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to reduced demand for our products and increased incidence of customers' inability to pay their accounts. Further, bankruptcies or similar events by customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Also, our suppliers may be negatively impacted by deteriorating economic conditions, causing disruption or delay of product availability. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. Additionally, if the conditions of the capital and credit markets adversely affect the financial institutions that have committed to extend us credit, they may be unable to fund borrowings under such commitments, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, liquidity, and our ability to borrow funds for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and other corporate purposes.. International Political Risk. Our international sales and operations, as well as sourcing of products from suppliers with international operations, are subject to various risks associated with changes in local laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, trade restrictions and trade agreements, investments, taxation, capital controls, employment regulations, different liability standards and limitations on the repatriation of funds due to foreign currency controls. Our international sales and operations, as well as sourcing of products from suppliers with international operations are also sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities, including government budgets, as well as political and economic instability. Unfavorable changes in any of the foregoing could adversely affect our results of operations or could cause a disruption in our supply chain for products sourced internationally. Additionally, failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 12. General Risk Factors. Goodwill, Intangibles and Long-Lived Assets. At December 31, 2017, goodwill, intangibles, and long-lived assets represented approximately 30% of our total assets. The recoverability of goodwill, indefinite lived intangibles, and long-lived assets is evaluated at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The identification and measurement of goodwill impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of our reporting unit and contains uncertainty because management must use judgment in determining appropriate assumptions to be used in the measurement of fair value. The estimates of fair value of our reporting unit, indefinite lived intangibles, and long-lived assets are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment and incorporates management's assumptions about expected future cash flows and contemplates other valuation techniques. Future cash flows can be affected by changes in the industry, a declining economic environment, or market conditions. We cannot assure you that we will not suffer material impairments to goodwill, intangibles, or long-lived assets in the future.. Risks Related to Insurance Coverage. We carry general liability, comprehensive property damage, workers' compensation, health benefits, and other insurance coverage that management considers adequate for the protection of its assets and operations. There can be no assurance that the coverage limits of such policies will be adequate to cover losses and expenses for lawsuits which have been, or may be, brought against us. A loss in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and/or profitability. Certain self-insurance risks for casualty insurance programs and health benefits are retained and reserves are established based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Assurance cannot be provided that actual claims will not exceed present estimates. Exposure to catastrophic losses has been limited by maintaining excess and aggregate liability coverage and implementing stop-loss control programs.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Class B Common Stock and Insider Ownership. As of December 31, 2017, our directors and executive officers and entities affiliated with them owned (i) Common stock representing 1% of the outstanding shares of Common stock and (ii) Class B common stock representing 90% of the outstanding shares of Class B common stock. These interests represent 56% of the aggregate combined voting power (including 52% beneficially owned by Albert H. Nahmad, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, through shares owned by him and shares held by affiliated limited partnerships and various family trusts). Accordingly, our directors and executive officers collectively have the voting power to elect six members of our nine-person Board of Directors.. Our Class B common stock is substantially identical to our Common stock except: (i) Common stock is entitled to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, and each share of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes; (ii) shareholders of Common stock are entitled to elect 25% of our Board of Directors (rounded up to the nearest whole number), and Class B shareholders are entitled to elect the balance of the Board of Directors; (iii) cash dividends may be paid on Common stock without paying a cash dividend on Class B common stock, and no cash dividend may be paid on Class B common stock unless at least an equal cash dividend is paid on Common stock; and (iv) Class B common stock is convertible at any time into Common stock on a one-for-one basis at the option of the shareholder.. Future Sales. In 2017, we issued and sold an aggregate of approximately $250.0 million of our Common stock under our previously reported \"at the market\" offering program. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our Common stock or Class B common stock (which we refer to together as common stock), including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, our common stock or any substantially similar securities in the future. We may issue shares of our common stock or other securities in one or more registered or unregistered offerings, and we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The number of shares of our common stock issued in connection with any of the foregoing may result in dilution to holders of our common stock.. Volatility. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of shares of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. The trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected due to a number of factors, most of which we cannot predict or control, such as the following:. <U+0095>   fluctuations in our operating results;. <U+0095>   a decision by the Board of Directors to reduce or eliminate cash dividends on our common stock;. <U+0095>   changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts;. <U+0095>   general market conditions in our industry or in the economy as a whole; and. <U+0095>   political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism.. Trading Liquidity. The trading market for our common stock is limited, and there can be no assurance that a more liquid trading market for our common stock will develop. There can be no assurance as to the liquidity of any market for our common stock, the ability of the holders of our common stock to sell any of their securities and the price at which the holders of our common stock will be able to sell such securities.. Payment of Dividends. The amount of any future dividends that we will pay, if any, will depend upon a number of factors. Future dividends will be declared and paid at the sole discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon such factors as cash flow generated by operations, profitability, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. The right of our Board of Directors to declare dividends, however, is subject to the availability of sufficient funds under Florida law to pay dividends. In addition, our ability to pay dividends depends on certain restrictions in our credit agreement.. Securities Analyst Research and Reports. The trading markets for our common stock rely in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business or industry. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, or publish negative or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. 13"
