[1] "Item 1A.   RISK FACTORS.. Economic cycles, particularly those involving reduced levels of commercial and residential starts and remodeling, may have adverse effects on our revenues and operating results.. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to economic and business cycles. The businesses of most of our customers, particularly plumbing and heating wholesalers and OEM manufacturers, are cyclical. Therefore, the level of our business activity has been cyclical, fluctuating with economic cycles. An economic downturn may also affect the financial stability of our customers, which could affect their ability to pay amounts owed to their vendors, including us. We also believe our level of business activity is influenced by commercial and residential starts and renovation and remodeling, which are, in turn, heavily influenced by interest rates, consumer debt levels, changes in disposable income, employment growth and consumer confidence. Credit market conditions may prevent commercial and residential builders or developers from obtaining the necessary capital to continue existing projects or to start new projects. This may result in the delay or cancellation of orders from our customers or potential customers and may adversely affect our revenues and our ability to manage inventory levels, collect customer receivables and maintain profitability. If economic conditions worsen in the future or if economic recovery were to dissipate, our revenues and profits could decrease or trigger additional goodwill, indefinite - lived intangible assets, or long - lived asset impairments and could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We face intense competition and, if we are not able to respond to competition in our markets, our revenues and profits may decrease.. Competitive pressures in our markets could adversely affect our competitive position, leading to a possible loss of market share or a decrease in prices, either of which could result in decreased revenues and profits. We encounter intense competition in all areas of our business. Additionally, we believe our customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventories and their transaction costs. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continually in manufacturing, product development, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments and we may be unable to maintain our competitive position. In addition, we may have to reduce the prices of some of our products to stay competitive, potentially resulting in a reduction in the profit margin for, and inventory valuation of, these products. Some of our competitors are based in foreign countries and have cost structures and prices in foreign currencies. Accordingly, currency fluctuations could cause our U.S. dollar costed products to be less competitive than our competitors' products costed in other currencies.. Changes in the costs of raw materials could reduce our profit margins. Reductions or interruptions in the supply of components or finished goods from international sources could adversely affect our ability to meet our customer delivery commitments.. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, including bronze, brass, cast iron, stainless steel and plastic, and substantially all of the raw materials we require are purchased from outside sources. The costs of raw materials may be subject to change due to, among other things, interruptions in production by suppliers and changes in exchange rates and worldwide price and demand levels. We typically do not enter into long - term supply agreements. Our inability to obtain supplies of raw materials for our products at favorable costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations by decreasing our profit margins. The commodity markets have experienced tremendous volatility over the past several years, particularly copper. Should commodity costs increase substantially, we may not be able to recover such costs, through selling price increases to our customers or other product cost reductions, which would have a negative effect on our financial results. If commodity costs decline, we may experience pressure from customers to reduce our selling prices. Additionally, we continue to purchase increased levels of components and finished goods from international sources. In limited cases, these components or finished goods are single - sourced. The availability of components and finished goods from international sources could be adversely impacted by, among other things, interruptions in production by suppliers, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers and new laws, tariffs, or regulations.. 12. Table of Contents. We are subject to risks associated with changing technology, manufacturing techniques, distribution channels and business continuity, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage.. The successful implementation of our business strategy requires us to continually evolve our existing products and introduce new products to meet customers' needs in the industries we serve. Our products are characterized by stringent performance and specification requirements that mandate a high degree of manufacturing and engineering expertise. If we fail to meet these requirements, our business could be at risk. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate their suppliers on the basis of a number of factors, including product quality, price competitiveness, technical and manufacturing expertise, development and product design capability, new product innovation, reliability and timeliness of delivery, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to meet customers' changing specifications with respect to these criteria. We cannot ensure that we will be able to address technological advances or introduce new products that may be necessary to remain competitive within our business. We cannot ensure that we can adequately protect any of our technological developments to produce a sustainable competitive advantage. Furthermore, we may be subject to business continuity risk in the event of an unexpected loss of a material facility or operation. We cannot ensure that we adequately protect against such loss.. Changes in regulations or standards could adversely affect our business.. Our products and business are subject to a wide variety of statutory, regulatory and industry standards and requirements. A significant change to regulatory requirements, whether federal, foreign, state or local, or to industry standards, could substantially increase manufacturing costs, impact the size and timing of demand for our products, or put us at a competitive disadvantage, any of which could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Implementation of our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which could affect our ability to increase our revenues or our profitability.. One of our strategies is to increase our revenues and profitability and expand our business through acquisitions that will provide us with complementary products and increase market share for our existing product lines. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional companies or successfully integrate such additional companies without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Also, companies acquired recently and in the future may not achieve anticipated revenues, cost synergies, profitability or cash flows that justify our investment in them. We have faced increasing competition for acquisition candidates, which has resulted in significant increases in the purchase prices of many acquisition candidates. This competition, and the resulting purchase price increases, may limit the number of acquisition opportunities available to us, possibly leading to a decrease in the rate of growth of our revenues and profitability. In addition, acquisitions may involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinadequate internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to bring such controls into compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse short - term effects on our reported operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiversion of management's attention;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestigations of, or challenges to, acquisitions by competition authorities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloss of key personnel at acquired companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated management or operational problems or legal liabilities; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential goodwill, indefinite - lived intangible assets, or long -  lived asset impairment charges.. 13. Table of Contents. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations.. We cannot be certain that our quality controls and procedures, including the testing of raw materials and safety testing of selected finished products, will reveal latent defects in our products or the materials from which they are made, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. We also cannot be certain that our suppliers will always eliminate latent defects in products we purchase from them. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product's warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. In addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers and we may lose market share with our customers. Our insurance policies may not cover the costs of a product recall.. Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. We may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face risks from product liability and other lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business.. We have been and expect to continue to be subject to various product liability claims or other lawsuits, including, among others, that our products include inadequate or improper instructions for use or installation, inadequate warnings concerning the effects of the failure of our products, alleged manufacturing or design defects, or allegations that our products contained asbestos. If we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, damages from these claims would have to be paid from our assets and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Like other manufacturers and distributors of products designed to control and regulate fluids and gases, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims and other lawsuits in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury, property damage or business interruption to our customers. We cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defect. In addition, in certain cases, we rely on third - party manufacturers for our products or components of our products. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or, if available, will be adequate to cover any such liabilities. For more information, see \"Item 1. Business - Product Liability, Environmental and Other Litigation Matters.\". Economic and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business and future operating results.. Since we sell and manufacture our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our business and future operating results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunexpected geo - political events in foreign countries in which we operate, which could adversely affect manufacturing and our ability to fulfill customer orders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour failure to comply with anti - corruption laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom's Bribery Act of 2010;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttrade protection measures and import or export duties or licensing requirements, which could increase our costs of doing business internationally;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws, including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which could have an adverse impact on our profits;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, which could reduce our productivity;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcosts of compliance with differing labor regulations, especially in connection with restructuring our overseas operations;. 14. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlaws of some foreign countries, which may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunexpected changes in regulatory requirements, which may be costly and require time to implement; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tforeign exchange rate fluctuations, which could also materially affect our reported results. A portion of our sales and certain portions of our costs, assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Approximately 39% of our sales during the year ended December 31, 2017 were from sales outside of the U.S. compared to 40% and 38% for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We cannot predict whether currencies such as the euro, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan, or other currencies in which we transact will appreciate or depreciate against the U.S. dollar in future periods or whether future foreign exchange rate fluctuations will have a positive or negative impact on our reported results.. Our ability to achieve savings through our restructuring and business transformation activities may be adversely affected by management's ability to fully execute the plans as a result of local regulations, geo - political risk or other factors within or beyond the control of management.. We have implemented a number of restructuring and business transformation activities, which include steps that we believe are necessary to enhance the value and performance of the Company, including reducing operating costs and increasing efficiencies throughout our manufacturing, sales and distribution footprint. Factors within or beyond the control of management may change the total estimated costs or the timing of when the savings will be achieved under the plans. Further, if we are not successful in completing the restructuring or business transformation activities timely or if additional or unanticipated issues such as labor disruptions, inability to retain key personnel during and after the transformation or higher exit costs arise, our expected cost savings may not be met and our operating results could be negatively affected. In addition, our restructuring and transformation activities may place substantial demands on our management, which could lead to diversion of management's attention from other business priorities and result in a reduced customer focus.. Our operating results could be negatively affected by changes in tax rates, the adoption of new tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities.. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions.  As a result, our effective rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places that we operate.  Our future taxes could be affected by numerous factors including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country, the results of examinations and audits of our tax filings, adjustments to our uncertain tax positions, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws.. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities, and in evaluating our tax positions.  Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, our tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.. The U.S. federal government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"2017 Tax Act\") on December 22, 2017.  The 2017 Tax Act has resulted in significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system.  These changes include lowering the corporate tax rate, implementing a territorial tax system, and imposing a one-time deemed repatriation toll tax on cumulative undistributed foreign earnings.. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved applying the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of December 31, 2017. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified, as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and as we refine estimates in calculating the effect, our final analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate in the period or periods in which the adjustments are made.. 15. Table of Contents. We are currently a decentralized company, which presents certain risks.. We are currently a decentralized company, which sometimes places significant control and decision - making powers in the hands of local management. This presents various risks such as the risk of being slower to identify or react to problems affecting a key business. Additionally, we are implementing in a phased approach a company - wide initiative to standardize and upgrade our enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems. This initiative could be more challenging and costly to implement because divergent legacy systems currently exist. Further, if the ERP updates are not successful, we could incur substantial business interruption, including our ability to perform routine business transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by information technology and other business disruptions.. Our business may be impacted by disruptions, including information technology attacks or failures, threats to physical security, as well as damaging weather or other acts of nature, pandemics or other public health crises. Cyber security attacks, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Cyber security may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, including vulnerabilities of our vendors, suppliers, and their products. We have experienced cyber security attacks and may continue to experience them going forward, potentially with more frequency. Given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, misappropriation, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. The requirements to evaluate goodwill, indefinite - lived intangible assets and long - lived assets for impairment may result in a write - off of all or a portion of our recorded amounts, which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, our balance sheet included goodwill, indefinite - lived intangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of $550.5 million, $37.3 million, $147.9 million and $198.5 million, respectively. In lieu of amortization, we are required to perform an annual impairment review of both goodwill and indefinite - lived intangible assets. In 2017 and 2016, none of our goodwill reporting units were impaired. In 2015, we recognized a pre - tax non - cash goodwill impairment charge of $129.7 million. The $129.7 million charge in 2015 related to an impairment within the Europe reporting unit and represented approximately 74% of the reporting unit's goodwill balance. In 2017, none of our indefinite-lived tradenames were impaired. In performing our annual reviews in 2016 and 2015, we recognized pre - tax non - cash indefinite - lived intangible asset impairment charges of approximately $0.4 million and $0.6 million, respectively. We are also required to perform an impairment review of our long - lived assets if indicators of impairment exist. In 2017, 2016, and 2015, we recognized pre - tax non - cash charges of $1.0 million, $0.1 million, and $0.3 million, respectively.. There can be no assurances that future goodwill, indefinite - lived intangible assets or other long - lived asset impairments will not occur. We perform our annual test for indications of goodwill and indefinite - lived intangible assets impairment in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or sooner if indicators of impairment exist.. The loss or financial instability of major customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. In 2017, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 21% of our total net sales with no one customer accounting for more than 10% of our total net sales. Our customers generally are not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and are able to terminate their relationships with us at any time. In addition, increases in the prices of our products could result in a reduction in orders from our customers. A significant reduction in orders from, or change in terms of contracts with, any significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Certain indebtedness may limit our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt and make acquisitions and other investments.. Our revolving credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain operational and financial covenants that restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders, incur additional debt and make acquisitions and other investments unless we satisfy certain financial tests and comply with various financial ratios. If we do not maintain compliance with these covenants, our creditors could declare a default under our revolving credit facility or senior notes and our indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. Our ability to comply with the provisions of our indebtedness may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions beyond our control. Further, one of our strategies is to increase our revenues and profitability and expand our business through acquisitions. We may require capital in excess of our available cash and the unused portion of our revolving credit facility to make large acquisitions, which we would generally obtain from access to the credit markets. There can be no assurance that if a large acquisition is identified that we would have access to sufficient capital to complete such acquisition. Should we require additional debt financing above our existing credit limit, we cannot be assured such financing would be available to us or available to us on reasonable economic terms.. One of our stockholders can exercise substantial influence over our Company.. As of January 28, 2018, Timothy P. Horne beneficially owned 6,329,290 shares of Class B common stock. Our Class B common stock entitles its holders to ten votes for each share and our Class A common stock entitles its holders to one vote per share. As of January 28, 2018, Timothy P. Horne beneficially owned approximately 18.6% of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock (assuming conversion of all shares of Class B common stock beneficially owned by Mr. Horne into Class A common stock) and approximately 99.2% of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, which represents approximately 69.2% of the total outstanding voting power. As long as Mr. Horne controls shares representing at least a majority of the total voting power of our outstanding stock, Mr. Horne will be able to unilaterally determine the outcome of most stockholder votes, and other stockholders will not be able to affect the outcome of any such votes.. Conversion and sale of a significant number of shares of our Class B common stock could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. As of January 28, 2018, there were outstanding 27,690,781 shares of our Class A common stock and 6,379,290 shares of our Class B common stock. Shares of our Class B common stock may be converted into Class A common stock at any time on a one for one basis. Under the terms of a registration rights agreement with respect to outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, the holders of our Class B common stock have rights with respect to the registration of the underlying Class A common stock. Under these registration rights, the holders of Class B common stock may require, on up to two occasions that we register their shares for public resale. If we are eligible to use Form S - 3 or a similar short - form registration statement, the holders of Class B common stock may require that we register their shares for public resale up to two times per year. If we elect to register any shares of Class A common stock for any public offering, the holders of Class B common stock are entitled to include shares of Class A common stock into which such shares of Class B common stock may be converted in such registration. However, we may reduce the number of shares proposed to be registered in view of market conditions. We will pay all expenses in connection with any registration, other than underwriting discounts and commissions. If all of the available registered shares are sold into the public market the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline."                                                                                                                                                                                
