[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should consider carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Competition from other weight management and wellness industry participants or the development of more effective or more favorably perceived weight management methods could result in decreased demand for our services and products.. The weight management and wellness marketplace is highly competitive. We compete against a wide range of providers of weight management services and products. Our competitors include: commercial weight management programs; hardware and software-based mobile app and web-based weight management programs and approaches; surgical procedures; the pharmaceutical industry; self-help weight management regimens and other self-help weight management products, services and publications, such as books, magazines, websites and social media groups; dietary supplements and meal replacement products; healthy living services, products and publications; weight management services administered by doctors, nutritionists and dieticians; government agencies and non-profit groups that offer weight management services; fitness centers and national drug store chains. Additional competitors may emerge as new or different weight management services, products or methods are developed and marketed. Furthermore, existing competitors may enter new markets or expand their offerings. More effective or more favorably perceived diet and weight management methods, including pharmaceutical treatments, fat and sugar substitutes or other technological and scientific advancements in weight management methods, also may be developed. This competition may reduce demand for our services and products.. The purchasing decisions of weight management and healthy living consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as brand image, marketing programs, cost, consumer trends and perception of the efficacy of the service and product offerings. Moreover, consumers can, and frequently do, change approaches easily and at little cost. For example, fad diets and weight loss trends, such as low-carbohydrate diets, have adversely affected our revenues from time to time. More recently, our revenue was adversely affected by the popularity of mobile technology, which has led to increased trial of free mobile and other weight management apps and activity monitors. Any decrease in demand for our services and products may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 11. If we do not continue to develop new, innovative services and products or if our services, products or brands do not continue to appeal to the market, or if we are unable to successfully expand into new channels of distribution or respond to consumer trends, our business may suffer.. The weight management and wellness marketplace is subject to changing consumer demands based, in large part, on the efficacy and popular appeal of weight management and healthy living programs. The popularity of weight management and healthy living programs is dependent, in part, on their ease of use, cost and channels of distribution as well as consumer trends. For example, consumers are increasingly focusing on more integrated lifestyle and fitness approaches and may associate our program with just food, nutrition and diet, which could adversely impact its popularity. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to develop and market new, innovative services and products and to enhance our existing services and products, each on a timely basis, to respond to new and evolving consumer demands, achieve market acceptance and keep pace with new nutritional, weight management, healthy living, technological and other developments. We may not be successful in developing, introducing on a timely basis or marketing any new or enhanced services and products. Additionally, new or enhanced services or products may not appeal to the market or the market's perception of us.  As we announce new articulations of our brands and we adopt new trademarks, the marketplace may not embrace or accept them and it may take time to build their reputation and goodwill, both with consumers and with our partners. Our future success also will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully distribute our services and products through appealing channels of distribution, such as mobile or social media. Our failure to develop new, innovative services and products and to enhance our existing services and products, the failure of our services, products or brands to continue to appeal to the market or the failure to expand into appealing new channels of distribution could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain members and subscribers and thus adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not be able to successfully implement new strategic initiatives, which could adversely impact our business.. We are continuously evaluating changing consumer preferences and the competitive environment of the weight management and healthy living marketplace and seeking out opportunities to improve our performance through the implementation of selected strategic initiatives, such as our healthcare initiative. The goal of these efforts is to develop and implement a comprehensive and competitive business strategy which addresses the continuing changes in the weight management and healthy living marketplace and our position within that marketplace. For example, as the healthcare industry continues to evolve its response to the obesity epidemic so do the requirements, both regulatory and business, for providers. If we do not successfully meet these requirements, we may not be perceived as an appropriate partner for certain purposes. We may not be able to successfully implement our strategic initiatives and realize the intended business opportunities, growth prospects, including new business channels, and competitive advantages. Our efforts to capitalize on business opportunities may not bring the intended results. Assumptions underlying expected financial results or consumer demand may not be met or economic conditions may deteriorate. We also may be unable to attract and retain highly qualified and skilled personnel to implement our strategic initiatives. If these or other factors limit our ability to successfully execute our strategic initiatives, our business activities, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our business depends on the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing programs, including the strength of our social media presence, to attract and retain members and subscribers.. Our business success depends on our ability to attract and retain members to our meetings and subscribers to our Online products. Our ability to attract and retain members and subscribers depends significantly on the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing practices. From time-to-time, we use the success stories of our members and subscribers, and utilize brand ambassadors, spokespersons and social media influencers, including in some cases celebrities, in our advertising and marketing programs to communicate on a personal level with consumers. Actions taken by these individuals that harm their personal reputation or image, or include the cessation of using our services and products, could have an adverse impact on the advertising and marketing campaigns in which they are featured. We, and from time-to-time our brand ambassadors, spokespersons and social media influencers, also use social media channels as a means of communicating with consumers. Unauthorized or inappropriate use of these channels could result in harmful publicity or negative consumer experiences, which could have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of our marketing in these channels. In addition, substantial negative commentary by others on social media platforms could have an adverse impact on our reputation and ability to attract and retain members and subscribers. If our advertising and marketing campaigns do not generate a sufficient number of members and subscribers, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.. 12. The Weight Watchers reputation could be impaired due to actions taken by our franchisees, licensees, suppliers and other partners.. We believe that the Weight Watchers brands, including their widespread recognition and strong reputation and goodwill in the market, are one of our most valuable assets and they provide us with a competitive advantage. Our franchisees operate their businesses under our brands. In addition, we license the Weight Watchers trademarks to third parties for the manufacture and sale in retail stores by such parties of a variety of goods, including food products, and also endorse third-party branded consumer products and services. We also sell through a variety of channels, including in our meeting rooms, food and non-food products manufactured by third-party suppliers. Our franchisees, licensees, suppliers and other partners are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, third-party relationships and brand associations. Actions taken by them, including violations of generally accepted ethical business practices or breaches of law or contractual obligations, such as not following our program or not maintaining our quality and safety standards, could harm our reputation. Also, Weight Watchers products may be subject to product recalls, brand confusion, litigation or other deficiencies, which could harm our brands. Any negative publicity associated with these actions or these third parties would adversely affect our reputation and may result in decreased recruitment, meeting attendance, Online product subscriptions and product sales and, as a result, lower revenues and profits.. Our substantial amount of debt and our debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, and the restrictions of our debt covenants could impede our operations and flexibility.. As of December 30, 2017, our total debt was $1,865.0 million. In addition, at December 30, 2017, we had $123.7 million available under our revolving credit facility. $1,565.0 million of our debt consists of variable-rate instruments so we are subject to the risk of higher interest rates. We seek to manage our exposure to interest rates through interest rate swaps. At the end of fiscal 2017, we had in effect an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $1.25 billion.. Our high degree of debt leverage could have significant consequences, including the following:. •  requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. •  exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including the borrowings under our credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest;. •  making it more difficult for us to make payments and otherwise satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default;. •  restricting our ability and flexibility to make strategic acquisitions and to take advantage of other strategic opportunities to grow our business funded by significant additional indebtedness or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. •  limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be less leveraged or may have greater financial resources than us;. •  increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and. •  limiting, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. Our credit facilities and the indenture governing our notes permit us to incur additional indebtedness in the future.  If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks we face as a result of our leverage could intensify.. 13. While there is no net debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) leverage ratio maintenance requirement on the debt outstanding under our credit facilities, our credit facilities and the indenture governing our notes contain customary covenants for a non-investment grade company, including covenants that in certain circumstances restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and liens, pay dividends on and redeem capital stock, make investments, sell our assets and enter into acquisitions, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets, prepay subordinated debt and enter into transactions with affiliates, in each case subject to baskets, thresholds and other exceptions. Under the terms of our credit facilities, depending on our leverage ratio, we are obligated to offer to prepay our term loan facilities in an aggregate amount determined by our excess cash flow. In addition, our revolving credit facility includes a maintenance covenant that requires compliance with certain first lien secured net leverage ratios when the aggregate principal amount of all revolving loans plus available, undrawn letters of credit and unreimbursed letters of credit (subject to customary exceptions and thresholds) exceeds 33 1/3% of the amount of the lenders' revolving commitments.. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of our debt, cause cross-defaults under our other debt, lead to the foreclosure on assets collateralizing secured debt (and the lenders of that secured debt would rank ahead of the holders of unsecured debt, including our notes, in the proceeds of those assets) and result in our lenders terminating all commitments to extend further credit. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness, and we may not be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Any such prepayment or refinancing could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, if we incur additional debt in the future, we may be subject to additional covenants, which may be more restrictive than those to which we are currently subject.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt and satisfy our other liquidity requirements.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations and to fund our planned capital expenditures and other ongoing liquidity needs depends on our future performance, which may be affected by financial, business, economic, demographic and other factors, such as attitudes toward weight management and pressure from our competitors. We have a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1,540.0 million due in November 2024, a revolving credit facility of $150.0 million due in November 2022 and $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding 8.625% senior notes due in December 2025. We expect to pay the principal and interest due on the term loan facility and our notes from a combination of our cash flows provided by operating activities and by opportunistically using other means to repay or refinance our obligations as we determine appropriate. There can be no assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flows provided by operating activities in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on all of our outstanding debt.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability, if any, to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt, if available on acceptable terms or at all, could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any deterioration in our performance may result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness or the ability to refinance our debt obligations on favorable terms or at all.. 14. Any failure of our technology or systems to perform satisfactorily could result in an adverse impact on our business.. We rely on software, hardware, network systems and similar technology, including cloud-based technology, that is either developed by us or licensed from or maintained by third parties to operate our websites, Online subscription product offerings and other services and products such as the recurring billing system associated with certain of our commitment plans, and to support our business operations. As much of this technology is complex, there may be future errors, defects or performance problems, including when we update our technology or integrate new technology to expand and enhance our capabilities. Our technology may malfunction or suffer from defects that become apparent only after extended use. The integrity of our technology may also be compromised as a result of third-party cyber-attacks, such as hacking, spear phishing campaigns and denial of service (DOS) attacks, which are increasingly negatively impacting companies. In addition, our operations depend on our ability to protect our information technology systems against damage from third-party cyber-attacks, fire, power loss, water, earthquakes, telecommunications failures and similar unexpected adverse events. Interruptions in our websites, services and products or network systems could result from unknown technical defects, insufficient capacity or the failure of our third party providers to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. While we maintain disaster recovery capabilities to return to normal operation in a timely manner, we do not have a fully redundant system that includes an instantaneous recovery capability.. As a result of such possible defects, failures, interruptions or other problems, our services and products could be rendered unreliable or be perceived as unreliable by customers, which could result in harm to our reputation and brands. Any failure of our technology or systems could result in an adverse impact on our business.. Our reputation and the appeal of our services and products may be harmed by security breaches or privacy concerns.. Breaches of security, vandalism and other malicious acts, which are increasingly negatively impacting companies, could result in unauthorized access to proprietary or customer information or data, including credit card transaction data, or cause interruptions to our services and products. Such unauthorized access or interruptions could harm our reputation, expose us to liability claims and may result in the loss of existing or potential customers. We rely upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and utilize confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal customer information and data), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information as well as comply with applicable regulatory requirements and contractual obligations.. We also have outsourced significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. The size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract, make such systems potentially vulnerable to security breaches. While we have invested and developed systems and processes designed to protect such proprietary or customer information or data, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches.. Many jurisdictions require that customers be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of their personal financial account or other information, and additional jurisdictions and governmental entities are considering such laws. In addition, other public disclosure laws may require that material security breaches be reported. If we experience a security breach and such notice or public disclosure is required in the future, our reputation and our business may be harmed. Prospective and existing customers and clients may have concerns regarding our use of private information or data collected on our websites or through our services and products, such as weight management information, financial data, email addresses and home addresses. These privacy concerns could keep customers and clients from using our websites or purchasing our services or products, and third parties from partnering with us.. In addition, the transmission of computer viruses, or similar malware, could adversely affect our information technology systems and harm our business operations. As a result, it may become necessary to expend significant additional amounts of capital and other resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by security breaches. These expenditures, however, may not prove to be a sufficient remedy.. 15. We may be required to recognize asset impairment charges for indefinite- and definite-lived assets.. In accordance with GAAP (as defined hereafter), we perform impairment reviews of our indefinite-lived assets, which include franchise rights acquired and goodwill, on at least an annual basis or more often if events so require. We also continually evaluate whether current factors or indicators, such as the deterioration in relevant, country macroeconomic conditions, an increased competitive environment, a decline in our financial performance, and/or other prevailing conditions in the capital markets, require the performance of an interim impairment assessment of those assets. The process of testing franchise rights acquired, goodwill and other indefinite-lived assets for impairment involves numerous judgments, assumptions and estimates made by management which inherently reflect a high degree of uncertainty. Certain factors, including the future profitability of our businesses, the price of our stock and macroeconomic conditions (both at the global and local levels), might have a negative impact on the fair value of these assets. In fiscal 2017, we recorded a $13.3 million impairment charge for goodwill related to our Brazil reporting unit. We may incur additional impairment charges in the future, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies\" in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.. Additionally, we evaluate definite-lived assets, both tangible, which includes our physical plant and equipment, and intangible, which includes both internally developed and purchased software, for impairment by comparing the net realizable value of the asset to the carrying value of the capitalized cost. If the value of those assets is not deemed to be recoverable, an assessment of the fair value of those assets is performed and to the extent the carrying value exceeds the fair value an impairment charge is recognized. Should our investment in capitalized definite-lived assets become impaired, there would also be an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Loss of key personnel, strategic partners or consultants or failure to effectively manage and motivate our workforce could negatively impact our sales of services and products, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on senior management and other key personnel and consultants, and the loss of certain personnel or consultants could result in the loss of management continuity and institutional knowledge and negatively affect our brand image and goodwill. In October 2015, Ms. Winfrey and the Company entered into a long-term, strategic partnership, which included her making a substantial equity investment in the Company, joining our Board of Directors, providing certain consulting services and granting us the right to use her name and marks. Our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with Ms. Winfrey's name may be damaged if we were to lose her services or if the nature of our partnership changes. The loss of Ms. Winfrey's services or partnership with us for any reason (including as a result of her death or disability), any negative market or industry perception with respect to her or her participation in the Company's programs, or the failure by Ms. Winfrey to provide services in her discretion to promote the Company, our programs, services and products or to consult with us and participate in developing, planning, executing and enhancing our programs and related initiatives, all in accordance with our strategic partnership arrangements with her, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We also depend heavily upon our service providers to support our customers in their weight management efforts. If we fail to appropriately manage and motivate our service providers, we may not be able to adequately service our customers which could negatively impact our sales of services and products. Changes in factors such as overall unemployment levels, local competition for qualified personnel, prevailing wage rates and employment law, as well as rising employee benefits costs, including insurance in the areas in which we operate, could increase our labor costs and interfere with our ability to adequately retain qualified individuals to provide support to customers. Additionally, our inability to attract and retain qualified service providers could delay or hinder our successfully executing our strategic initiatives.. 16. The inability to renew certain of our licenses, or the inability to do so on terms that are favorable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We have entered into licensing and endorsement relationships with numerous partners for the distribution and sale of certain products and services that are relevant and helpful to weight- and health-conscious consumers. These arrangements are typically for fixed terms, following which the parties decide whether to extend the term of the arrangement. There is no guarantee that we will reach mutually agreeable terms with our partners for extending an arrangement. Similarly, in those instances where a licensee enjoys the option to extend the term of a license as a result of having achieved certain conditions, there is no guarantee that the licensee will avail itself of such option. Our financial results could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to extend a licensing or endorsement arrangement, if we are unable to do so on terms favorable to us, or if we cannot locate a suitable alternative to an incumbent licensee who has decided not to renew its arrangement.. Expiration or early termination by us of leases could have an adverse impact on our financial results.. Our operations, including corporate headquarters and back-office and customer service operations, are located in leased office space and many of our meetings are held in leased space in retail centers. As leases expire, we may not be able to renew them on acceptable terms or secure suitable replacement locations. If we decide to relocate or close meeting locations before the expiration of the applicable lease term, we may incur payments to landlords to terminate or \"buy out\" the remaining term of the lease. Any of the above events could adversely impact our financial results.. Our international operations expose us to regulatory, economic, political and social risks in the countries in which we operate.. The international nature of our operations involves a number of risks, including changes in U.S. and foreign regulations, tariffs, taxes and exchange controls, economic downturns, inflation and political and social instability in the countries in which we operate and our dependence on foreign personnel. Foreign regulations may also restrict our ability to operate in some countries, acquire new businesses, recur bill our customers or repatriate cash from foreign subsidiaries back to the United States. If we expand our operations into additional foreign countries, we may be subject to additional risks, including the ability to successfully adapt to local culture and navigate regulatory, economic, political and social risks. We cannot be certain that we will be able to enter and successfully compete in additional foreign markets or that we will be able to continue to compete in the foreign markets in which we currently operate.. We are exposed to foreign currency risks from our international operations that could adversely affect our financial results.. A significant portion of our revenues and operating costs are denominated in foreign currencies. We are therefore exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our foreign operations receive revenues and pay expenses. We do not currently hedge, and have not historically hedged, our operational exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. Our consolidated financial results are presented in U.S. dollars and therefore, during times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international revenues and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. In addition, the assets and liabilities of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate for the period. Translation adjustments arising from the use of differing exchange rates from period to period are recorded in shareholders' equity as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Translation adjustments arising from intercompany receivables and payables with our foreign subsidiaries are generally recorded as a component of other expense (income). Accordingly, changes in currency exchange rates will cause our revenues, operating costs, net income and shareholders' equity to fluctuate. For example, these changes had a negative impact on our fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2016 financial results.. 17. Our business may decline as a result of a downturn in general economic conditions or consumer confidence.. Our business is highly dependent on meeting fees, Online product subscriptions and product sales. A downturn in general economic conditions or consumer confidence in any of our markets could result in people curtailing or reallocating their discretionary spending which, in turn, could reduce attendance at our meetings, Online product subscriptions and product sales. Any reduction in consumer spending may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not successfully make acquisitions or enter into joint ventures and we may not successfully integrate, operate or realize the anticipated benefits of such businesses.. As part of our strategic initiatives, we may pursue selected acquisitions or joint ventures. We may not be able to effect these transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any future acquisitions or joint ventures may require access to additional capital, and we may not have access to such capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we enter into these transactions, we may not realize the benefits we anticipate or we may experience difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, technologies and products into our existing business or in providing our services and products in newly acquired markets; attrition of key personnel from acquired businesses; significant charges or expenses; higher costs of integration than we anticipated; or unforeseen operating difficulties that require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations.. Our ability to influence the control of, or distributions from, our joint ventures may be limited by contract or otherwise. If any of the other investors in one of our joint ventures fails to observe its commitments, or its interests are different than ours, the joint venture may not be able to operate according to its business plan, we may be required to increase our level of commitment, or such entities may take actions which are not in our best interest. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our joint venture partners, we could lose our ability to operate in the geographies and/or markets in which they operate, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Consummating these transactions could also result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, as well as unforeseen contingent liabilities, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may also issue additional equity in connection with these transactions, which would dilute our existing shareholders.. The seasonal nature of our business could cause our operating results to fluctuate.. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations due to the seasonal nature of our business. Typically, the first quarter of the fiscal year, known as our winter season, is the most important quarter for recruitments. Given the subscription nature of our products, failure to realize recruitments during the winter season could negatively impact our performance for the remainder of the year. This seasonality could cause our share price to fluctuate as the results of an interim financial period may not be indicative of our full year results. Seasonality also impacts relative revenue and profitability of each quarter of the year, both on a quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year basis.. Any event that discourages or impedes people from gathering with others or accessing resources could adversely affect our business.. Our business is subject to conditions beyond our control, including extreme weather, terrorism, health epidemics, loss of resources such as electricity and internet connections, national disasters and other extraordinary events, that may prevent or impede meeting attendance or accessing our Online products. The occurrence of any event that discourages people from gathering with others or impedes their ability to access our services and products could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 18. Third parties may infringe on our brands and other intellectual property rights, which may have an adverse impact on our business.. We currently rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade dress, trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws and domain name dispute resolution systems to establish and protect our proprietary rights, including our brands. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, the value of our brands, services and products could be diminished and our business may suffer. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Any legal action that we may bring to protect our brands and other intellectual property could be unsuccessful and expensive and could divert management's attention from other business concerns. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property, especially in Internet-related businesses, are uncertain and evolving. These evolving legal standards may not sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights in the future.. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims.. Third parties may make claims against us alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could significantly divert management's attention from other business concerns. In addition, if we were unable to successfully defend against such claims, we may have to pay damages, stop selling the service or product or stop using the software, technology or content found to be in violation of a third party's rights, seek a license for the infringing service, product, software, technology or content or develop alternative non-infringing services, products, software, technology or content. If we cannot license on reasonable terms, develop alternatives or stop using the service, product, software, technology or content for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our service and product offerings. Any of these results could reduce our revenues or our ability to compete effectively, increase our costs or harm our business.. Outcomes of litigation or regulatory actions could adversely impact our financial condition.. From time to time, we may be a party to lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business operations. For example, in the past, we have had disputes with our franchisees regarding operations and other contractual issues. Due to the inherent uncertainties of legal actions and regulatory proceedings, we cannot predict their outcomes with certainty. Therefore, it is possible that our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected by the unfavorable resolution of one or more legal or regulatory actions. As we expand our wellness offerings, consumers may misconstrue our program as providing medical advice. As we clearly state in our consumer communications, most of our service providers do not have extensive training or certification in nutrition, diet or health fields beyond the training they receive from us. Despite our disclaimers, as more customers come to us seeking a healthy lifestyle, they may misperceive that our service providers are providing medical advice regarding weight loss and related topics. We may also be subject to claims that our service providers have provided inappropriate advice or have inappropriately referred or failed to refer customers to health care providers when needed. Regardless of the outcome of any legal action or regulatory proceeding, such actions and proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that our management devote substantial time and resources to defend us. For example, the previously disclosed adverse UK tax ruling relating to the self-employment status of our UK leaders resulted in an aggregate adverse charge of approximately $37.0 million.. Our business is subject to legislative and regulatory restrictions.. A number of laws and regulations govern our advertising and marketing, services, products, operations and relations with consumers, licensees, franchisees, employees and other service providers, and government authorities in the countries in which we operate.. 19. Certain federal, state and foreign agencies, such as the FTC and FDA, regulate and enforce such laws and regulations relating to advertising and marketing, promotions, packaging, privacy, consumer pricing and billing arrangements, and other consumer protection matters. A determination by a federal, state or foreign agency, or a court in connection with a governmental enforcement action or private litigation, that any of our practices do not meet existing or new laws or regulations could result in liability, adverse publicity, and restrictions of our business operations. For example, during the mid-1990s, the FTC filed complaints against a number of commercial weight management providers alleging violations of federal law in connection with the use of advertisements that featured testimonials, claims for program success and program costs. In 1997, we entered into a consent order with the FTC settling all contested issues raised in the complaint filed against us. The consent order required us to comply with certain procedures and disclosures in connection with our advertisements of services and products and expired by its terms in 2017.. We are subject to many distinct employment, labor, commercial, benefits and tax laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including regulations affecting our employment and wage and hour practices and our relations with our employees and service providers. If we are required to comply with new laws or regulations or interpretations of existing laws and regulations that differ from our interpretations, are unable to comply with these laws, regulations or interpretations, or are subject to litigation with respect to these laws, regulations or interpretations, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Laws and regulations directly applicable to communications, operations or commerce over the Internet, such as those governing intellectual property, privacy and taxation, continue to evolve. For example, a new general data protection regulation is expected to take effect in the European Union in 2018. If we are required to comply with new laws or regulations or interpretations of existing laws or regulations that differ from our interpretations, or if we are unable to comply with these laws, regulations or interpretations, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Future laws or regulations, including laws or regulations affecting our advertising and marketing practices, consumer pricing and billing arrangements, relations with consumers, employees, service providers, licensees or franchisees, or our services and products, may have an adverse impact on us.. If we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we could fail to report our financial results accurately.. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. In the past we have discovered, and in the future we may discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. In the future, if we identify a control deficiency that rises to the level of a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, this material weakness may adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information timely and accurately and, as a result, our financial statements may contain material misstatements or omissions. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. Artal effectively controls us and may have conflicts of interest with other shareholders in the future.. Artal effectively controls us and is effectively able to control the election and removal of our directors and determine our corporate and management policies, including potential mergers or acquisitions, payment of dividends, asset sales, the amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of our ownership may delay or deter possible changes in control of our company, which may reduce the value of an investment in our common stock. So long as Artal owns 10% or more of our common stock, Artal will have the right pursuant to an agreement with us to nominate directors to our Board of Directors in proportion to its stock ownership. In addition, Artal Luxembourg entered into a Voting Agreement with Ms. Winfrey on October 18, 2015, pursuant to which Ms. Winfrey has agreed to vote all of her shares of our common stock so as to elect such individuals designated as directors by Artal. The interests of Artal may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock.. 20. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. A group comprised of Artal and Ms. Winfrey controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Under the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, rules, a listed company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a \"controlled company\" and such a company may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the Board of Directors should have a nominating and corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities, (3) the requirement that the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities, (4) that the compensation committee be required to consider certain independence factors when engaging compensation consultants, legal counsel and other committee advisors and (5) the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. We have elected to be treated as a \"controlled company.\" Accordingly, our shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Virginia corporate law contain provisions that may discourage a takeover attempt.. Provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the laws of Virginia, the state in which we are incorporated, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders. Thus, our Board of Directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. In addition, a change of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our having three classes of directors. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock."
