[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks, uncertainties and cautionary statements, together with the other disclosures in this Form 10-K. Any of the following risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We have substantial indebtedness, and the degree to which we are leveraged may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. As of December 31, 2017, our total consolidated indebtedness was $1,267.7 million. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including:. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to scheduled interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product innovation, and other general corporate purposes;. • restricting us from pursuing strategic acquisitions or requiring us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and thereby have greater financial flexibility;. • impairing our ability to withstand competitive pressures and changes in the foodservice industry; and. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the terms and restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our existing indebtedness as well as any future indebtedness that we may incur and to fund planned capital expenditures and other liquidity needs will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations or asset sales as well as our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, all of which are subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. We may not generate sufficient funds to service our debt and meet our business needs, such as funding working capital or the expansion of our operations. If we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, the lenders who hold our debt could accelerate amounts due which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of the maturity of our other debt.. Our business and financial results are dependent on our ability to execute our manufacturing strategies, including our ability to scale our manufacturing capacity and resources to the level of our customers' demand.. Our business and financial results depend upon our ability to timely and efficiently execute our manufacturing strategies without disruption to our business, including reducing excess manufacturing capacity, completing plant acquisitions or closures, consolidating existing facilities and operations and renovating existing plants and facilities as needed. We must make highly efficient use of manufacturing capacity to generate competitive profit margins and achieve our stated financial goals, while also managing the risk of insufficient capacity which. may expose us to liabilities related to contract commitments. Adapting or modifying our capacity is difficult, as modifications take substantial time to execute and, in some cases, may require regulatory approval. Additionally, delivering products during process or facility modifications requires special coordination. The cost and resources required to adapt our capacity, such as through facility acquisitions, facility closings, or process moves between facilities, as well as coordinating any related reductions or changes in our workforce, may negate any planned cost reductions or may result in costly delays, product quality issues or material shortages, all of which could adversely affect our financial results and our reputation with our customers.. If we are unable to successfully implement certain cost-reduction initiatives or such cost savings prove to be less than anticipated, we may not achieve our earnings targets.. In recent years, we have adopted several cost-saving initiatives and operating strategies intended to drive increased profit margins, including, for example, reducing the complexity of our product offerings, incorporating strategic sourcing and adopting our \"80/20\" portfolio rationalization whereby we intend to focus the majority of our resources and investments on those products that yield the greatest returns. However, the success of these initiatives and strategies is not guaranteed, and we may not achieve the full cost savings we expect or such. -. 19. -. benefits might be realized later than expected. The 80/20 initiative in particular involves significant cultural shifts, both internally and for our customers, that may inhibit, delay or impair its successful implementation. Additionally, if we devote a disproportionate amount of time, personnel and resources to initiatives that yield slower or less than anticipated results or that are ultimately unsuccessful, we may be distracted from other initiatives and priorities that might have yielded more rapid or better results, and our results of operations may suffer accordingly.. Price increases, disruption of supply or our inability to successfully manage our exposures to price fluctuations of our raw materials could affect our profitability and harm our business.. We use large amounts of steel, stainless steel, aluminum, copper, natural gas and electronic controls, among other items, in the manufacture of our products. Occasionally, market prices of some of our key raw materials increase significantly, which could adversely affect our margins. In addition, because we maintain limited raw material and component inventories, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers, including those due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired financial condition of suppliers, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other events outside our control, may harm our business, impair our ability to satisfy customer demand and adversely affect our business and financial performance.. To better manage our exposures to certain commodity price fluctuations, we regularly hedge our commodity exposures through derivative financial instruments. Through this hedging program, we fix the future price for a portion of these commodities used in the production of our products. To the extent that our hedging results in fixing commodity prices that are unfavorable in comparison to market prices at the time of purchase, we would experience a negative impact on our profit margins compared to the margins we would have realized if these price commitments were not in place, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Because we participate in an industry that is highly competitive, our net sales and profits could decline as a result.. We sell our products in a highly competitive industry. We compete based on product design, product quality, performance and reliability, quality and responsiveness of product support services, maintenance costs and price. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing and distribution resources than we do. This competition as well as competitors' pricing decisions could cause our sales to decrease or compel us to reduce our prices to remain competitive, either of which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Additionally, a substantial portion of our dealer revenue comes from a small number of buying groups, which gives those buying groups a large degree of leverage and purchasing power with us and our competitors. In recent years those buying groups have used their leverage to extract larger rebates, discounts and other price reductions. We must continually balance the added revenue from providing reduced prices to those buying groups against the reduced margins generated by them, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We rely on independent dealers and distribution partners to sell our products, and the loss of these dealers and distribution partners could adversely affect our business.. We rely significantly on a global network of independent, regional dealers and distributors to market and distribute our products. Our dealer and distributor arrangements are non-exclusive and allow such parties to represent and promote competing products without any obligation to buy our products. The dealers and distributors with which we do business may be unwilling or unable to dedicate the resources necessary to promote our portfolio of product offerings. In addition, our distributors could retain inventory levels that exceed their future anticipated sales, which could thereby affect our future sales to those distributors. The loss of a significant number of distributors or dealers, or an increase in our distributors' or dealers' sales of our competitors' products could materially reduce our sales and profits. Furthermore, failure of our distributors to adhere to our policies designed to promote compliance with global anti-corruption laws, export controls, and local laws, could subject us to criminal or civil penalties and harm our brand and reputation.. If we do not develop new and innovative products, adapt to rapid and significant technological change or respond to introductions of new products by competitors, our results could be negatively affected.. Our strategy of creating innovative products and solutions for our customers requires significant time and investment toward product innovation, design, development and testing, all of which are necessary to meet our customers' needs, compete with frequent new product introductions and enhancements and comply with evolving regulatory requirements in the numerous geographic markets we serve. To remain competitive, we therefore must develop new and innovative products on a rapid and on-going basis. If we do not successfully develop innovative products, it may be difficult to differentiate our products from our competitors' products and satisfy regulatory requirements, and our sales and results would suffer.. If we do not meet customers' product quality and reliability standards and expectations, we may experience increased or unexpected product warranty claims and other adverse consequences to our business.. Product quality and reliability are significant factors influencing customers' decisions to purchase our products. Inability to maintain the high quality of our products relative to the perceived or actual quality of similar products offered by competitors could result in the loss of market share, loss of revenue, reduced profitability, an increase in warranty costs, and/or damage to our reputation. Similarly, if we fail to provide the same level of quality through our KitchenCare aftermarket parts and service as we provide in original equipment manufacturing, it could likewise negatively affect our revenue and our reputation with our customers.. -. 20. -. Product quality and reliability are determined in part by factors that are not entirely within our control. We depend on our suppliers for parts and components that meet our standards. If our suppliers fail to meet those standards, we may not be able to deliver the quality products that our customers expect, which may impair revenue and our reputation and lead to higher warranty costs.. We provide our customers a warranty covering workmanship, and in some cases materials, on products we manufacture. Our warranty generally provides that products will be free from defects for periods typically ranging from 12 months to 60 months with certain equipment having longer term warranties. If a product fails to comply with the warranty, we may be obligated, at our expense, to correct any defect by repairing or replacing the defective product. Although we maintain warranty reserves in an amount based primarily on the number of units shipped and on historical and anticipated warranty claims, there can be no assurance that future warranty claims will follow historical patterns or that we can accurately anticipate the level of future warranty claims. An increase in the rate of warranty claims or the occurrence of unexpected warranty claims could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Changing consumer tastes and government regulations affecting the quick-service restaurant (\"QSR\") industry could affect sales to our largest customers.. A number of our largest customers operate in the QSR industry. The QSR industry is frequently affected by changes in consumer tastes and eating habits, often as a result of new information or attitudes regarding diet and health or as a result of government regulations requiring QSRs to disclose the nutritional content of their food. If consumers' eating habits change significantly, our customers may choose or be required to modify their menu offerings or cooking methods. Such modifications, or the failure to make the modifications to the extent consumers desire, could have an adverse effect on our customers' business, financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows, which in turn could adversely affect customers' demand for our products.. We have significant manufacturing and sales of our products outside of the United States (\"U.S.\"), which may present additional risks to our business.. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 34.6%, 35.1% and 32.1%, respectively, of our net sales were attributable to products sold outside of the U.S. We intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend resources in doing so. We are subject to various risks related to conducting business internationally, including:. • potential adverse changes or increased uncertainty relating to the political, social, religious and economic stability of the countries in which we do business or such countries' diplomatic relations with the U.S.;. • the imposition by governments, including the U.S., of additional taxes, tariffs, economic sanctions, embargoes or other restrictions on foreign trade;. • difficulties in establishing, staffing, and managing foreign operations, including but not limited to our ability to obtain or retain necessary licenses or recruit qualified personnel under local labor market conditions;. • our ability to comply with complex international laws and regulations that may change unexpectedly, differ, or conflict with laws in other countries in which we conduct business;. • adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, including risks related to any hedging transactions;. • difficulties in enforcing contractual rights;. • inadequate protection of intellectual property in foreign countries; and. • unanticipated delays or disruptions in the global supply chain.. Any of these risks or other risks relating to international operations and sales could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our international sales and operations are subject to a variety of domestic and international laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations.. We must comply with all applicable international trade, customs, export controls and economic sanctions laws and regulations of the U.S. and the other countries in which we do business. Changes in trade sanctions laws may restrict our business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries or with sanctioned entities, and may result in modifications to compliance programs. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and other anti-bribery laws that generally bar bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. regulations, such as the FCPA. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with all such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, distributors, dealers, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies or these regulations. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product or other activities of the Company, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. -. 21. -. We may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions of or investments in new businesses, products, or technologies, which could harm our business.. As part of our strategy, we intend to grow our company through the acquisition of businesses, products or technologies. Identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions or integrate newly acquired businesses. Risks associated with acquisitions include, among others:. • the inability to finance potential acquisitions on satisfactory terms;. • the significant amount of management time and attention needed to identify, execute and integrate any businesses to be acquired;. • the risk that the acquired businesses will fail to maintain the quality of workmanship that we have historically provided;. • the need to implement internal controls and integrate information systems and processes;. • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business;. • lack of success in assimilating or integrating the operations or technologies of acquired businesses within our operations and technologies;. • the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets involved in any acquisitions;. • the inability to fully realize some of the synergies expected or otherwise achieve anticipated revenues and profits; and. • the ability to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by product liability lawsuits.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale and use of our products. To date, we have not incurred material costs related to these product liability claims. While we believe our current general liability and product liability insurance is adequate to protect us from future product liability claims, there can be no assurance that our coverage will be adequate to cover all claims that may arise. Additionally, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Significant losses not covered by insurance or for which third-party indemnification is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights or maintain our rights to use licensed intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected.. Our patents, trademarks and licenses are important in the operation of our businesses. Although we protect our intellectual property rights vigorously, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in doing so. Third parties may assert or prosecute infringement or validity claims against us in connection with the services and products that we offer, and we may or may not be able to successfully defend these claims. Litigation, either to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, if a third-party would prevail in an infringement claim against us, then we would likely need to obtain a license from the third-party on commercial terms, which would likely increase our costs. Our failure to maintain or obtain necessary licenses or an adverse outcome in any litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Sales of our products are sensitive to volatile or variable factors. A downturn or weakness in overall economic activity or fluctuations in weather or other factors could adversely affect us.. Historically, sales of products that we manufacture and sell have been subject to variations caused by changes in general economic conditions and other factors. In particular, the strength of the economy generally may affect the rates of expansion, consolidation, renovation and equipment replacement within the restaurant, lodging, convenience store and healthcare industries, which may affect our sales. Furthermore, any future economic recession may impact leveraged companies like us more than competing companies with less leverage and may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Weather conditions can substantially affect our business, as relatively cool summer weather and cooler-than-normal weather in hot climates tend to decrease sales of ice and beverage dispensers. Our sales depend in part upon our customers' replacement or repair cycles. Adverse economic conditions may cause customers to forgo or postpone new purchases in favor of repairing existing machinery.. If we are unable to sufficiently adjust to market conditions, among other potential adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, we could fail to deliver on planned results, fall short of analyst and investor expectations, incur higher fixed costs, and/or fail to benefit from higher than expected customer demand resulting in loss of market share.. -. 22. -. Our operations and profitability could suffer if we experience labor relations problems.. As of December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 5,400 people worldwide and had seven employee unions in North America, one trade union in Europe and one trade union in China. Many of our European employees belong to the trade union or a European works council. Our union contracts and labor agreements are renegotiated periodically, and we cannot predict the outcome of these negotiations. If we are unable to reach new agreements or renew existing agreements on a timely basis, we may experience strikes, work stoppages, delays or other issues which could disrupt our business. Any significant labor relations issues, including issues related to the renewal of expiring union contracts, could adversely affect our operations, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are exposed to the risk of changes in interest rates or foreign currency fluctuations.. We have indebtedness that accrues interest at a variable rate. Increases in interest rates will reduce our operating cash flows and could hinder our ability to fund our operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions or dividends. In such cases we may seek to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, but hedging our exposure carries the risk that we may forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if interest rates were to change in our favor. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy is guaranteed to completely insulate us from the risks associated with such fluctuations.. Additionally, some of our operations are or may be conducted by subsidiaries in foreign countries. The results of operations and the financial position of these subsidiaries will be reported in the relevant foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, which are stated in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates between many of these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Such fluctuations may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial position and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. For example, the weakening of the British pound following the United Kingdom's vote to exit the European Union had a negative foreign currency translation impact on our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2016.. We also incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into a transaction using a different currency than its functional currency. We attempt to reduce currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into a material transaction using a different currency than its functional currency by:. • matching cash flows and payments in the same currency;. • direct foreign currency borrowing; and. • entering into foreign exchange contracts for hedging purposes.. However, we may not be able to hedge such a risk completely or at an acceptable cost, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods.. Recent changes to tax laws or exposure to additional tax liabilities may have a negative impact on our operating results.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to, reducing the U.S. federal corporate statutory rate from 35% to 21%; requiring companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings for foreign subsidiaries; generally eliminating U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; requiring a current inclusion in U.S. federal taxable income of certain earnings of foreign corporations; and creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense. Such changes are expected to have a material effect on our business and the industry in which we operate. This significant change to the U.S. tax system, including changes to the taxation of international income, could have a material effect upon our results of operations and cash flows.. We regularly undergo tax audits in various jurisdictions in which our products are sold. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that we prepare our tax filings in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audits, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could materially affect our operating results and/or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties, and/or interest assessments.. Our business and/or reputation could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders, and such activism could impact the trading value of our securities.. Certain of our stockholders may in the future publicly or privately express views with respect to the operation of our business, our business strategy, corporate governance considerations or other matters that may not be fully aligned with our own. Responding to actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees. Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, damage to our reputation, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified directors, personnel and business partners. These actions could also cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility.. -. 23. -. Activist shareholders may in the future make strategic proposals, suggestions, or requests for changes concerning the operation of our business, our business strategy, corporate governance considerations, or other matters. We cannot predict, and no assurances can be given, as to the outcome or timing of any consequences arising from these actions, and any such consequences may impact the value of our securities.. Environmental liabilities that may arise in the future could be material to us.. Our operations, facilities and properties are subject to extensive and evolving laws and regulations pertaining to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination, and otherwise relating to health, safety and the protection of the environment. As a result, we are involved from time to time in administrative or legal proceedings relating to environmental and health and safety matters, and we have in the past and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures relating to such matters. We also cannot be certain that identification of presently unidentified environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory authorities, or other unanticipated events will not arise in the future and give rise to additional environmental liabilities, compliance costs and/or penalties that could be material. Further, environmental laws and regulations are constantly evolving and it is impossible to predict accurately the effect any changes may have upon our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business. and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our internal and external data centers, cloud services, and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. The number and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions that companies have experienced from third parties has increased over the past few years. Despite our security measures, it is impossible for us to eliminate this risk. Our information technology and infrastructure, and that of our partners, may be vulnerable to malicious attacks or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, including as a result of roll-outs of new systems. In addition, because techniques used by computer programmers and hackers (many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded) to access or sabotage networks and computer systems change frequently and often are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques. Any data security attack, breach or operational failure could compromise our networks and/or that of our partners and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and/or cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business.. Our inability to recover from natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our business.. Our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural or man-made disasters, national emergencies, significant labor strikes, work stoppages, political unrest, war or terrorist activities that could curtail production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries and canceled orders. In addition, we purchase components and raw materials and information technology and other services from numerous suppliers, and, even if our facilities were not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions at such suppliers. Such suppliers may be less likely than our own facilities to be able to quickly recover from such events and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. We cannot assure you that we will have insurance to adequately compensate us for any of these events.. Compliance with regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and affect the manufacturing and sale of our products.. In recent years, governments in both the U.S. and Europe have implemented or proposed regulations governing the use of certain minerals, including tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold (\"conflict minerals\"). In the U.S., SEC rules require disclosures related to conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an SEC-reporting company, that are sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo and other countries in central Africa. In the European Union, proposed regulations would require similar disclosures, and may encompass other geographic regions outside of central Africa.. These disclosure requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the minerals used in the manufacture of our products. Our supply chain is complex, and if we are not able to conclusively verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products or that our products are \"conflict free,\" we may face reputational challenges with our customers or investors. Furthermore, we may also encounter challenges to satisfy customers who require that our products be certified as \"conflict free,\" which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. Additionally, as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering \"conflict free\" metals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary metals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Finally, because European regulations have not yet been finalized, it is difficult for us to determine whether and how we will establish a compliance program. For all of these reasons, we could incur significant costs related to the conflict minerals compliance process, and face equally significant costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements.. -. 24. -. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, including to fund acquisitions, or for general corporate purposes, which could affect our financial health and decrease our profitability.. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. In addition, our Board of Directors (\"Board\") may issue shares of preferred stock without further action by holders of our common stock. If our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. However, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on terms we find acceptable, if at all. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of our preferred stock, the terms of the debt or our preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition, and thus your investment in us, could be materially and adversely affected.. Our debt instruments have restrictive covenants that could limit our financial flexibility.. The terms of the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities, the agreements that govern the securitization facility and the indenture governing the high yield notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our ability to borrow under our senior secured credit facilities and to securitize accounts receivable under the securitization facility is subject to compliance with a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio covenant and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio covenant. Our senior secured credit facilities include other restrictions that, among other things, limit our ability to incur indebtedness; grant liens; engage in mergers, consolidations and liquidations; make asset dispositions, restricted payments including dividends and investments; enter into transactions with affiliates; and amend, modify or prepay certain indebtedness. The indenture governing the high yield notes contains limitations on our ability to effect mergers and change of control events as well as other limitations, including limitations on: the declaration and payment of dividends or other restricted payments; incurring additional indebtedness or issuing preferred stock; the creation or existence of certain liens; incurring restrictions on the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other payments; transactions with affiliates; and sale of assets.. We report the status of our compliance with these covenants quarterly. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our funded debt. We do not have sufficient working capital to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness.. There could be significant liability if the Spin-Off is determined to be a taxable transaction as a result of the Company's breach of related covenants and agreements with MTW, and we could have an indemnification obligation to MTW if the transactions we undertook in the Spin-Off do not qualify for non-recognition treatment as a result of actions by the Company, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition.. In connection with the Spin-Off, MTW received an opinion from its legal counsel, substantially to the effect that the Spin-Off and certain related transactions will qualify as tax-free to MTW and its shareholders under Sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), except to the extent of any cash received in lieu of fractional shares of MFS' common stock. Any such opinion is not binding on the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\"). Accordingly, the IRS may reach conclusions with respect to the Spin-Off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion. The opinion relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from MTW and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters, which, if incomplete, incorrect or not satisfied, could alter the conclusions of the party giving such opinion.. If the Spin-Off ultimately is determined to be a taxable event, the Spin-Off could be treated as a taxable dividend to MTW's shareholders at the time of the Spin-Off for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and MTW's shareholders could incur significant federal income tax liabilities. In addition, MTW would recognize a taxable gain to the extent that the fair market value of MFS' common stock exceeds MTW's tax basis in such stock on the date of the Spin-Off.. Generally, taxes resulting from the failure of the Spin-Off to qualify for non-recognition treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes would be imposed on MTW or MTW's shareholders and, under the tax matters agreement dated as of March 4, 2016, between MTW and MFS (the \"Tax Matters Agreement\"), MTW is generally obligated to indemnify us against such taxes. However, under the Tax Matters Agreement, we could be required, under certain circumstances, to indemnify MTW and its affiliates against all tax-related liabilities caused by those failures, to the extent those liabilities result from an action we or our affiliates take or from any breach of our or our affiliates' representations, covenants or obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement or any other agreement we entered into in connection with the Spin-Off. Events triggering an indemnification obligation under the agreement include events occurring after the Distribution that cause MTW to recognize a gain under Section 355(e) of the Code.. -. 25. -. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and the Securities Markets. There is not a long history of trading in our common stock, and our stock price may fluctuate significantly.. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including the factors listed in the following:. • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business awards;. • announcements of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures or dispositions by us or our competitors;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock;. • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts;. • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;. • investor perception of our company and the foodservice industry;. • overall market fluctuations;. • changes in capital gains taxes and taxes on dividends affecting stockholders; and. • general economic conditions and other external factors.. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations could also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends in the future on our common stock based on our indebtedness or any other limiting factors.. The timing, declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends to stockholders will fall within the discretion of our Board and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements and debt service obligations, as well as legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that our Board deems relevant. In addition, the terms of the agreements governing our existing debt or debt that we may incur in the future may limit or prohibit the payment of dividends. For more information, see \"Dividend Policy\" as part of \"Item 5. - Market of Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.\""
