[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We make and hold in our portfolio construction loans, including speculative construction loans, which are considered to have greater credit risk than other types of residential loans.. We originate construction loans for residential properties and commercial real estate properties, including properties built on speculative, undeveloped property by builders and developers who have not identified a buyer for the completed residential or commercial real estate property at the time of loan origination. At December 31, 2017, $120.0 million, or 17.3%, of our loan portfolio consisted of construction loans. Construction loans secured by speculative residential loan projects totaled $83.0 million, or 12.0% of our loan portfolio; loans secured by owner-occupied residential real estate, totaled $28.7 million, or 4.2% of our loan portfolio; and loans that were secured by speculative commercial loan projects totaled $8.3 or 1.2% of our loan portfolio.. Speculative construction lending involves additional risks when compared with construction financing of owner-occupied residential properties or permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon the progress of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. This type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential mortgage loan. These loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of a completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. While we believe we have established adequate allowances in our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our allowances, which could adversely impact our future earnings.. 16. Our ability to continue to originate a significant amount of construction loans is dependent on the continued strength of the housing market in our market area. Further, if we lost our relationship with several of our larger borrowers building in this area or there is a decline in the demand for new housing in this area, it could be expected that the demand for construction loans would decline and our net income would be adversely affected.. Our commercial lending exposes us to greater lending risks.. At December 31, 2017, $206.8 million, or 29.9%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and commercial business loans. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the business and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential mortgage loan. Further, unlike residential mortgage loans or commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans may be secured by collateral other than real estate, the value of which may be more difficult to appraise, and may be more susceptible to fluctuation in value.. Our level of nonperforming loans and classified assets expose us to increased risk of loss. Also, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. At December 31, 2017, loans that were internally classified as either special mention, substandard, doubtful or loss totaled $5.5 million, representing 0.8% of total loans. Included in the total of internally classified loans are nonperforming loans of $576 thousand, representing 0.1% of total loans. If these loans do not perform according to their terms and the value of the collateral is insufficient to pay the remaining loan balance or if the economy and/or the real estate market weakens, we could experience loan losses or be required to record additional provisions to our allowance for loan losses, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level representing management’s best estimate of inherent losses in the portfolio based upon management’s evaluation of the portfolio’s collectibility as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results.. At December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses totaled $6.2 million, which represented 0.9% of total loans and 1,068.2% of nonperforming loans. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to income, or to charge off loans, which, net of any recoveries, would decrease the allowance for loan losses. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the implementation of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326) in 2020, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the severe recession that occurred in 2008 and 2009, economic growth has been slow. A return to prolonged deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, and profitability. Declines in real estate values and sales volumes and elevated unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our non-performing and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our non-performing assets and troubled debt restructurings totaled $748 thousand, $770 thousand, and $1.6 million at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The resolution of problem assets has historically been exacerbated by the lengthy foreclosure process in Massachusetts and extended workout plans with certain borrowers. As we work through the resolution of these assets, economic problems may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition.. The geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy.. While there is not a single employer or industry in our market area on which a significant number of our customers are dependent, a substantial portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of loans secured by property located in the greater Boston metropolitan area. This makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy and real estate markets. Adverse conditions in the local economy such as unemployment, recession, a catastrophic event or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which could impact our net interest income. Decreases in local real estate values caused by economic conditions or other events could adversely affect the value of the property used as collateral for our loans, which could cause us to realize a loss in the event of a foreclosure.. 17. Our residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit expose us to certain lending risks.. At December 31, 2017, $329.0 million, or 47.5% of our loan portfolio, consisted of residential mortgage loans and $36.4 million, or 5.3% of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity lines of credit. We intend to continue to emphasize and grow these categories of loans, in particular residential mortgage loans. Real estate values are susceptible to price volatility during changing economic conditions. Declines in real estate values could cause some of our residential mortgage and home equity lines of credit to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral.. Changes in interest rates may hurt our profits and asset values and our strategies for managing interest rate risk may not be effective.. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted-average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted-average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) the ability to originate loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains or avoid losses from the sale of such assets; (3) the ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities, our profitability could be adversely affected as a result of changes in interest rates.. In order to decrease interest rate risk, we utilize a variety of asset and liability management strategies such as increasing the amount of adjustable-rate loans and short term investments, as well as using longer-term Federal Home Loan Bank advances to fund a portion of our lending activities. In addition, we price longer-term certificates of deposit at an attractive rate to extend the average term of our deposits. Due to market conditions and customer demand, these strategies may not be effective in decreasing our interest rate risk. In addition, our interest rate risk mitigation strategies may be influenced by regulatory guidance and directives. As a result, we may be required to take actions that, while mitigating our interest rate risk, may negatively impact our earnings.. Strong competition within our market area could reduce our profits and slow growth.. We face a high level of competition both in making loans and attracting deposits within our primary markets. This competition may make it difficult for us to make new loans and may force us to offer lower loan rates and higher deposit rates. Pricing competition for loans and deposits might result in our earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. At June 30, 2017, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the FDIC, we held 1.8% of the deposits in Norfolk County, which was the 14th largest market share among the 48 financial institutions with offices in Norfolk County. At June 30, 2017, we also held 13.7% of the deposits in the town of Wellesley, which was the third largest market share among the 16 financial institutions with offices in Wellesley. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area.. We may not be able to generate sufficient deposit growth to support our funding needs.. The largest contributor to our profitability is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest we earn on loans and investments over the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. The interest rates we pay on deposits is typically lower than that which we would pay on borrowings. To the extent that we are able to increase deposits to fund our asset growth, our profitability would be higher than it would if those funds come from borrowings. With strong competition for deposits in the Wellesley/Newton/Needham/Cambridge/Boston market areas, and numerous investment alternatives available to potential depositors, we may not be able to generate sufficient deposit growth at acceptable interest rates to support our funding needs. In that event, we may need to increase the interest rates we pay on deposits to generate additional deposit growth. In lieu of lower cost core deposit accounts, we may need to increase borrowings or increase our use of higher cost brokered deposits, both of which strategies we have used in recent years. Increasing rates we pay on deposit, increasing borrowings and/or using brokered deposits in lieu of lower cost core deposit accounts increases our interest expense would increase which adversely affects our results of operations.. 18. Our wealth management business is heavily regulated, and the regulators have the ability to limit or restrict our activities and impose fines or suspensions on the conduct of our business.. Our wealth management business is highly regulated, primarily at the federal level. The failure of our subsidiary that provides investment management and wealth advisory services to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of individual employees or other sanctions including revocation of such affiliate’s registration as an investment adviser. Changes in the laws or regulations governing our wealth management business could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and operations.. Our wealth management businesses may be negatively impacted by changes in economic and market conditions.. Our wealth management business may be negatively impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions because the performance of such business is directly affected by conditions in the financial and securities markets. The financial markets and businesses operating in the securities industry are highly volatile (meaning that performance results can vary greatly within short periods of time) and are directly affected by, among other factors, domestic and foreign economic conditions and general trends in business and finance, all of which are beyond our control. Declines in the financial markets or a lack of sustained growth may result in a corresponding decline in our performance and may adversely affect the assets that we manage.. We may not be able to attract and retain wealth management clients due to competition.. Due to intense competition, our wealth management subsidiary may not be able to attract and retain clients at a rate needed to continue to grow the business. Competition is especially strong in our geographic market areas because there are numerous well-established, well-resourced, well-capitalized, and successful investment management and wealth advisory firms in these areas.. Our ability to successfully attract and retain investment management and wealth advisory clients is dependent upon our ability to compete with competitors’ investment products, level of investment performance, client services and marketing and distribution capabilities. If we are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted.. Our business strategy includes moderate growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.. We have experienced significant growth since our initial public offering in January 2012, and we expect growth to continue at a more moderate rate in the future, at levels commensurate with maintaining adequate regulatory capital. Expected growth in our assets, our deposits and the scale of our operations, may come from organic growth or acquisitions. Organic growth will be driven by our growing presence in the Wellesley/Newton/Needham/Cambridge/Boston market areas. We opened our fifth full-service branch in Newton Centre in the second quarter of 2016. We opened our fourth full- service branch in Boston in the fourth quarter of 2013 and relocated our wealth management subsidiary to separate office space in Wellesley in the fourth quarter of 2014. Achieving our growth targets requires us to successfully execute our business strategies. As a full-service community banking institution, our business strategies include continuing to expand our loan portfolio with more residential mortgage lending and larger commercial lending relationships, and increased emphasis on competitive lower cost deposit products, in particular business deposit and checking products. Our ability to successfully grow and achieve our objectives will also depend on the continued availability of lending opportunities that meet our stringent underwriting standards.. The loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations.. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Thomas J. Fontaine. The loss of Mr. Fontaine could have an adverse effect on us because, as a small community bank, Mr. Fontaine has more responsibility than would be typical at a larger financial institution with more employees. Currently, we are party to a three-year employment contract with Mr. Fontaine. In addition, we have bank-owned life insurance on Mr. Fontaine.. 19. Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) enacted in 2010 created a significant shift in the way financial institutions operate. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. However, institutions with less than $10.0 billion in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with consumer protection and fair lending laws and regulations by, and be subject to the enforcement authority of, their prudential regulators. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal banking regulators have proposed new consolidated capital requirements that will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in Wellesley Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008 and 2009. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Any future legislative changes could have a material impact on our profitability, the value of assets held for investment or the value of collateral for loans. Future legislative changes could also require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and potentially expose us to additional costs, liabilities, enforcement action and reputational risk.. New capital rules generally require insured depository institutions and their holding companies to hold more capital. The impact of new rules on our financial condition and operations is uncertain but could be materially adverse.. In 2013, the FDIC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies issued a final rule that revised their risk-based capital requirements and the method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the revised capital standards, to be well-capitalized Wellesley Bank is required to have a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0%, a common equity to Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.0%, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5.0%. The final rule became effective for Wellesley Bank on January 1, 2015. In addition, the capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in beginning January 1, 2016 and ending January 1, 2019, when the full capital conservation buffer requirement will be effective.. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Wellesley Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy, and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. Specifically, Wellesley Bank’s ability to pay dividends is limited if Wellesley Bank does not have the capital conservation buffer required by the new capital rules, which may limit our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. As of December 31, 2017 the Bank met all capital adequacy requirements to which it is subject. In addition, the Bank meets the 1.25% required capital conservation buffer at December 31, 2017.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. Wellesley Bank is subject to extensive government regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC and the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks. Wellesley Bancorp is also subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation, supervision and examination govern the activities in which we may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance fund and our depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations.. A significant percentage of our common stock is held by our directors, executive officers and employee benefit plans which, if voted together, could prevent actions requiring a supermajority vote, such as the amendment of certain provisions of the articles of incorporation and bylaws.. As of December 31, 2017, our directors and executive officers, together with their associates, own 11.6% of Wellesley Bancorp’s outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, our employee stock ownership plan owns 7.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, approximately 18.8% of our outstanding shares are held by our directors, executive officers and our employee stock ownership plan. The articles of incorporation and bylaws of Wellesley Bancorp contain supermajority voting provisions that require that the holders of at least 75% of Wellesley Bancorp’s outstanding shares of voting stock approve certain actions including, but not limited to, the amendment of certain provisions of Wellesley Bancorp’s articles of incorporation and bylaws. If our directors and executive officers and benefit plans hold more than 25% of our outstanding common stock, the shares held by these individuals and benefit plans could be voted in a manner that would ensure that the 75% supermajority needed to approve such actions could not be attained.. 20. The articles of incorporation and bylaws of Wellesley Bancorp and certain regulations may prevent or make more difficult certain transactions, including a sale or merger of Wellesley Bancorp.. Provisions of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of Wellesley Bancorp, state corporate law and federal and state banking regulations may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Wellesley Bancorp. Consequently, our stockholders may not have the opportunity to participate in such a transaction and the trading price of our common stock may not rise to the level of other institutions that are more vulnerable to hostile takeovers. The following factors may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult:. <U+25CF>Articles of incorporation and bylaws. Provisions of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of Wellesley Bancorp that may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that the board of directors opposes include the following:. ·supermajority voting requirements for changes to certain provisions of the articles of incorporation and bylaws, which makes it more difficult for shareholders to change provisions of our governing documents;. ·a limitation on the right to vote shares, which prohibits any person who owns in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares of Wellesley Bancorp common stock from any vote with respect to the shares held in excess of the limit;. ·the election of directors to staggered terms of three years, which makes it more difficult and time consuming for a shareholder group to fully use its voting power to gain control of the board of directors at a single annual meeting of shareholders without the consent of the incumbent board of directors of Wellesley Bancorp;. ·the removal of directors only for cause, which makes it more difficult for shareholders to remove directors and replace them with their own nominees;. ·the absence of cumulative voting by stockholders in the election of directors, which may prevent a shareholder from electing nominees opposed by the board of directors of Wellesley Bancorp;. ·provisions restricting the calling of special meetings of stockholders, which delays consideration of shareholder proposal until the next annual meeting; and. ·provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations, which gives our board of director’s time to consider the qualifications of proposed nominees, the merits of the proposals and, to the extent deemed necessary or desirable by our board of directors, to inform shareholders and make recommendations about those matters.. <U+25CF>Massachusetts and federal banking regulations and Maryland corporate law. State corporate law and federal banking regulations place limitations on the acquisition of certain percentages of our common stock and impose restrictions on certain significant stockholders.. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations.. Changes in tax laws contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in December 2017, include a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for residential real estate. Included in this legislation was a reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 34% to 21%. In addition, other changes included: (1) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (2) the elimination of interest deductions for home equity loans, (3) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, and (4) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.. The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. In addition, these recent changes may also have a disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with high residential home prices and high state and local taxes, such as Massachusetts. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers; systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our business is dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to protect against the threat of such security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by such security breaches or viruses. To the extent that the activities of our third-party service providers or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners; and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. We, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such unauthorized access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties; disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers; damage our reputation; and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services— all of which could adversely affect our business, revenues and competitive position. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses.. To remain competitive, we must keep pace with technological change.. Financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations."
