[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results, business, financial condition and cash flows to materially differ from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements made herein because such statements speak only to the date they were made. Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, we undertake no obligation or duty to revise or update any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect subsequent events or circumstances or the occurrence of unanticipated events. Also refer to the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K.. Our business is subject to overall economic conditions that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact customer shipping volumes, industry freight demand and industry truck capacity. When shipping volumes decline or available truck capacity increases, freight pricing generally becomes more competitive as carriers compete for loads to maintain truck productivity. We may be negatively affected by future economic conditions including employment levels, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, interest rates and tax rates. Economic conditions may also impact the financial condition of our customers, resulting in a greater risk of bad debt losses, and that of our suppliers, which may affect negotiated pricing or availability of needed goods and services.. Difficulty in recruiting and retaining experienced drivers, recent driver training school graduates and independent contractors could impact our results of operations and limit growth opportunities.. At times, the trucking industry has experienced driver shortages. Driver availability may be affected by changing workforce demographics, alternative employment opportunities, national unemployment rates, freight market conditions, availability of financial aid for driver training schools and changing industry regulations. If such a shortage were to occur and additional driver pay rate increases were necessary to attract and retain drivers, our results of operations would be negatively impacted to the extent that we could not obtain corresponding freight rate increases. Additionally, a shortage of drivers could result in idled equipment, which could affect our profitability.. 6. Table of Contents. Independent contractor availability may also be affected by both inflationary cost increases that are the responsibility of independent contractors and the availability of equipment financing. If a shortage of independent contractors occurs, additional increases in per-mile settlement rates (for independent contractors) and driver pay rates (for company drivers) may become necessary to attract and retain a sufficient number of drivers. These increases could negatively affect our results of operations to the extent that we would be unable to obtain corresponding freight rate increases.. Increases in fuel prices and shortages of fuel can have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and profitability.. To lessen the effect of fluctuating fuel prices on our margins, we have fuel surcharge programs with our customers. These programs generally enable us to recover a majority, but not all, of the fuel price increases. The remaining portion is generally not recoverable because it results from empty and out-of-route miles (which are not billable to customers) and truck idle time. Fuel prices that change rapidly in short time periods also impact our recovery because the surcharge rate in most programs only changes once per week. Fuel shortages, increases in fuel prices and petroleum product rationing could have a material adverse impact on our operations and profitability. To the extent that we cannot recover the higher cost of fuel through customer fuel surcharges, our financial results would be negatively impacted. As of December 31, 2017, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel price fluctuations.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which may limit growth opportunities and reduce profitability.. The freight transportation industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of trucking and non-asset-based logistics companies. We compete primarily with other truckload carriers in our Truckload segment. Logistics companies, intermodal companies, railroads, less-than-truckload carriers and private carriers also provide a lesser degree of competition in our Truckload segment, but such providers are more direct competitors in our Werner Logistics segment. Competition for the freight we transport or manage is based primarily on service, efficiency, available capacity and, to some degree, on freight rates alone. This competition could have an adverse effect on either the number of shipments we transport or the freight rates we receive, which could limit our growth opportunities and reduce our profitability.. We operate in a highly regulated industry. Changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could adversely affect our operations and profitability.. We are regulated by the DOT in the United States and similar governmental transportation agencies in foreign countries in which we operate. We are also regulated by agencies in certain U.S. states. These regulatory agencies have the authority to govern transportation-related activities, such as safety, authorization to conduct motor carrier operations and other matters. The Regulations subsection in Item 1 of Part I of this Form 10-K describes several proposed and pending regulations that may have a significant effect on our operations including our productivity, driver recruitment and retention and capital expenditures. The subsidiaries of WGL hold a variety of licenses required to carry out its international services, and the loss of any of these licenses could adversely impact the operations of WGL.. The seasonal pattern generally experienced in the trucking industry may affect our periodic results during traditionally slower shipping periods and winter months.. In the trucking industry, revenues generally follow a seasonal pattern which may affect our results of operations. After the December holiday season and during the remaining winter months, our freight volumes are typically lower because some customers reduce shipment levels. Our operating expenses have historically been higher in the winter months because of cold temperatures and other adverse winter weather conditions which result in decreased fuel efficiency, increased cold weather-related maintenance costs of revenue equipment and increased insurance and claims costs. Revenue can also be affected by adverse weather conditions, holidays and the number of business days during a given period because revenue is directly related to the available working days of shippers.. We depend on key customers, the loss or financial failure of which may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability.. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from key customers. During 2017, our largest 5, 10 and 25 customers accounted for 29%, 43% and 61% of revenues, respectively. No single customer generated more than 8% of our revenues in 2017. We do not have long-term contractual relationships with many of our key One-Way Truckload customers. Our contractual relationships with our Dedicated customers are typically one to three years in length and may be terminated by either party upon 30 to 90 days' notice following the expiration of the contract's first year, and we generally review rates in these contracts annually. We cannot provide any assurance that key customer relationships will continue at the same levels. If a key customer substantially reduced or terminated our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We review our customers' financial conditions for granting credit, monitor changes in customers' financial conditions on an ongoing basis and review. 7. Table of Contents. individual past-due balances and collection concerns. However, a key customer's financial failure may negatively affect our results of operations.. We depend on the services of third-party capacity providers, the availability of which could affect our profitability and limit growth in our Werner Logistics segment.. Our Werner Logistics segment is highly dependent on the services of third-party capacity providers, such as other truckload carriers, less-than-truckload carriers, railroads, ocean carriers and airlines. Many of those providers face the same economic challenges as we do and therefore are actively and competitively soliciting business. These economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the availability and cost of third-party capacity. If we are unable to secure the services of these third-party capacity providers at reasonable rates, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. If we cannot effectively manage the challenges associated with doing business internationally, our revenues and profitability may suffer.. Our results are affected by the success of our operations in Mexico, China and other foreign countries in which we operate (see Note 8 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K). We are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in foreign currencies, changes in the economic strength of the countries in which we do business, difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights, burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and United States export and import laws, and social, political, and economic instability. Additional risks associated with our foreign operations, including restrictive trade policies and imposition of duties, taxes, or government royalties by foreign governments, are present but largely mitigated by the terms of NAFTA for Mexico and Canada. The agreement permitting cross border movements for both United States and Mexican based carriers into the United States and Mexico presents additional risks in the form of potential increased competition and the potential for increased congestion on the cross border lanes between countries. Recent political activity suggests that changes to NAFTA may be forthcoming. This and other measures that may impact the level of trade between the United States, Mexico and Canada could negatively impact our volume of cross border shipments and thus, our results of operations.. Our earnings could be reduced by increases in the number of insurance claims, cost per claim, costs of insurance premiums or availability of insurance coverage.. We are self-insured for a significant portion of liability resulting from bodily injury, property damage, cargo and associate workers' compensation and health benefit claims. This is supplemented by premium-based insurance with licensed insurance companies above our self-insurance level for each type of coverage. To the extent we experience a significant increase in the number of claims, cost per claim or insurance premium costs for coverage in excess of our retention amounts, our operating results would be negatively affected. Healthcare legislation and inflationary cost increases could also have a negative effect on our results.. Decreased demand for our used revenue equipment could result in lower unit sales, resale values and gains on sales of assets.. We are sensitive to changes in used equipment prices and demand, especially with respect to tractors. We have been in the business of selling our company-owned trucks since 1992, when we formed our wholly-owned subsidiary Werner Fleet Sales. Reduced demand for used equipment could result in a lower volume of sales or lower sales prices, either of which could negatively affect our gains on sales of assets.. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties.. In addition to direct regulation by DOT, EPA and other federal, state, and local agencies, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, aboveground and underground fuel storage tanks, discharge and retention of storm-water, and emissions from our vehicles. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage at several of our facilities. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. Tractors and trailers used in our daily operations have been affected by regulatory changes related to air emissions and fuel efficiency, and may be adversely affected in the future by new regulatory actions.. 8. Table of Contents. We rely on the services of key personnel, the loss of which could impact our future success.. We are highly dependent on the services of key personnel, including our executive officers. Although we believe we have an experienced and highly qualified management team, the loss of the services of these key personnel could have a significant adverse impact on us and our future profitability.. Difficulty in obtaining goods and services from our vendors and suppliers could adversely affect our business.. We are dependent on our vendors and suppliers. We believe we have good vendor relationships and that we are generally able to obtain favorable pricing and other terms from vendors and suppliers. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relationships with our vendors and suppliers, or if our vendors and suppliers experience significant financial problems, we could experience difficulty in obtaining needed goods and services because of production interruptions or other reasons. Consequently, our business could be adversely affected.. We use our information systems extensively for day-to-day operations, and service interruptions or a failure of our information technology infrastructure or a breach of our information security systems, networks or processes could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We depend on the stability, availability and security of our information systems to manage our business. Much of our software was developed internally or by adapting purchased software applications to suit our needs. Our information systems are used for planning loads, dispatching drivers and other capacity providers, billing customers, paying vendors and providing financial reports.  If any of our critical information systems fail or become unavailable, we would have to perform certain functions manually, which could temporarily affect our ability to efficiently manage our operations. We have redundant computer hardware systems to reduce this risk. We also maintain information security policies to protect our systems and data from cyber security events and threats.  The security risks associated with information technology systems have increased in recent years because of the increased sophistication, activities and evolving techniques of perpetrators of cyber attacks. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, may be difficult to detect for a long time and often are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A failure in or breach of our information technology security systems, or those of our third-party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or unauthorized network access could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase our costs and/or cause losses and reputational damage. In addition, recently, there has also been heightened regulatory and enforcement focus on data protection in the U.S., and failure to comply with applicable U.S. data protection regulations or other data protection standards may expose us to litigation, fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could harm our reputation and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition."
