[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons working on our behalf are expressly qualified by the following factors. This information should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K.. Operational Risk Factors. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruptions of financial markets could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows or financial position.. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our customers, which in turn is affected by global economic conditions and market factors impacting the industries and markets that they serve. Certain global economies and markets continue to experience significant uncertainty and volatility, particularly commodity-driven end markets such as oil and gas and metals and mining. Adverse economic conditions or lack of liquidity in these markets, particularly in North America, may adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Economic and financial market conditions may also affect the availability of financing for projects and for our customers' capital or other expenditures, which can result in project delays or cancellations and thus affect demand for our products. There can be no assurance that any governmental responses to economic conditions or disruptions in the financial markets ultimately will stabilize the markets or increase our customers' liquidity or the availability of credit to our customers. Should one or more of our larger customers declare bankruptcy, it could adversely affect the collectability of our accounts receivable, along with bad debt reserves and net income. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so. The economic, political and financial environment also may affect our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict, and there can be no assurance that economic, political and market conditions will not adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position in the future.. Certain events or conditions, including a failure or breach of our information security systems, could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations.. We operate a number of facilities and we coordinate company activities, including information technology systems and administrative services and the like, through our headquarters operations. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain existing systems and implement new technology, which includes allocating sufficient resources to periodically upgrade our information technology systems, and to protect our equipment and the information stored in our databases against both manmade and natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, unauthorized intrusions, cyber-attacks, and other events. Conversions to new information technology systems may result in cost overruns, delays or business interruptions. If our information technology systems are disrupted, become obsolete or do not adequately support our strategic, operational or compliance needs, it could result in a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our business operations and financial condition, including our ability to process orders, receive and ship products, maintain inventories, collect accounts receivable and pay expenses, therefore impacting our results of operations.. Because we rely heavily on information technology both in serving our customers and in our enterprise infrastructure in order to achieve our objectives, we may be vulnerable to damage or intrusion from a variety of cyber-attacks, including computer viruses, worms or other malicious software programs that access our systems. Despite the precautions we take to mitigate the risks of such events, an attack on our enterprise information technology system could result in theft or disclosure of our proprietary or confidential information or a breach of confidential customer, supplier or employee information. Such events could have an adverse impact on revenue and harm our reputation. Additionally, such an event could cause us to incur legal liabilities and costs, which could be significant, in order to address and remediate the effects of an attack and related security concerns.. We also depend on accessible office facilities, distribution centers and information technology data centers for our operations to function properly. An interruption of operations at any of our distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on the operations of branches served by the affected distribution center. Such disaster related risks and effects are not predictable with certainty and, although they typically can be mitigated, they cannot be eliminated. We seek to mitigate our exposures to disaster events in a number of ways. For example, where feasible, we design the configuration of our facilities to reduce the consequences of disasters. We also maintain insurance for our facilities against casualties, and we evaluate our risks and develop contingency plans for dealing with them. Although we have reviewed and analyzed a broad range of risks applicable to our business, the ones that actually affect us may not be those that we have concluded are most likely to occur. Furthermore, although our reviews have led to more systematic contingency planning, our plans are in varying stages of development and execution, such that they may not be adequate at the time of occurrence for the magnitude of any particular disaster event that we may encounter.. 9. Table of Contents. An increase in competition could decrease sales, profit margins, and earnings.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete directly with global, national, regional and local providers of like products and services. Some of our existing competitors have, and new market entrants may have, greater resources than us. Competition is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities and price. Other sources of competition are buying groups formed by smaller distributors to increase purchasing power and provide some cooperative marketing capability, as well as e-commerce companies. There may be new market entrants with non-traditional business and customer service models, resulting in increased competition and changing industry dynamics.. Existing or future competitors may seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, and we may be required to lower our prices or may lose business, which could adversely affect our financial results. Also, to the extent that we do not meet changing customer preferences or demands, or to the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful with private label products, on-line offerings or otherwise, our ability to attract and retain customers could be materially adversely affected. Existing or future competitors also may seek to compete with us for acquisitions, which could have the effect of increasing the price and reducing the number of suitable acquisitions. These factors, in addition to competitive pressures resulting from the fragmented nature of our industry, could affect our sales, profit margins and earnings.. Expansion into new business activities, industries, product lines or geographic areas could subject the company to increased costs and risks and may not achieve the intended results.. We have invested significantly in expanding our e-commerce capabilities and online customer experience. If our efforts to expand our capabilities in this area are not successful, we may not realize the return on our investments as anticipated, or our operating results could be adversely affected by slower than expected sales growth or additional costs. Furthermore, engaging in or significantly expanding business activities in product sourcing, sales and services could subject the company to unexpected costs and risks. Such activities could subject us to increased operating costs, product liability, regulatory requirements and reputational risks. Our expansion into new and existing markets, including manufacturing related or regulated businesses, may present competitive distribution and regulatory challenges that differ from current ones. We may be less familiar with the target customers and may face different or additional risks, as well as increased or unexpected costs, compared to existing operations. Growth into new markets may also bring us into direct competition with companies with whom we have little or no past experience as competitors. To the extent we are reliant upon expansion into new geographic, industry and product markets for growth and do not meet the new challenges posed by such expansion, our future sales growth could be negatively impacted, our operating costs could increase, and our business operations and financial results could be negatively affected.. Loss of key suppliers, product cost fluctuations, lack of product availability, or inefficient supply chain operations could decrease sales, profit margins, and earnings.. Most of our agreements with suppliers are terminable by either party on 60 days' notice or less. Our 10 largest suppliers in 2017 accounted for approximately 33% of our purchases for the period. Our largest supplier in 2017 was Eaton Corporation, accounting for approximately 11% of our purchases. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from any of these suppliers, a supplier's change in sales strategy to rely less on distribution channels, the loss of key preferred supplier agreements, or disruptions in a key supplier's operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Supply interruptions could arise from shortages of raw materials, effects of economic, political or financial market conditions on a supplier's operations, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting products or shipments, transportation disruptions, information system disruptions or other reasons beyond our control.. In addition, certain of our products, such as wire and conduit, are commodity price based products and may be subject to significant price fluctuations which are beyond our control. While increases in the cost of energy or products could have adverse effects, decreases in those costs, particularly if severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit margin to deteriorate. Fluctuations in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect our customers. Declines in oil and gas prices can negatively impact our customers operating in those industries and, consequently, our sales to those customers. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that particular products or product lines will be available to us, or available in quantities sufficient to meet customer demand. Such limited product access could cause us to be at a competitive disadvantage. The profitability of our business is also dependent upon the efficiency of our supply chain. An inefficient or ineffective supply chain strategy or operations could increase operational costs, decrease sales, profit margins and earnings, which could adversely affect our business.. We must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the failure to do so may adversely affect our business.. Our success depends on hiring, retaining and motivating key employees, including executive, managerial, sales, technical, marketing and support personnel. We may have difficulty locating and hiring qualified personnel. In addition, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against us. The loss of key personnel or. 10. Table of Contents. our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel could disrupt or adversely affect our business, its sales and operating results. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover, which may also result in loss of significant customer business, or increased employee benefit costs.. Acquisitions that we may undertake would involve a number of inherent risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result.. We have expanded our operations through organic growth and selected acquisitions of businesses and assets, and may seek to do so in the future. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, including: problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business; uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; the potential loss of key employees of an acquired business; the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition or other transaction rationale; and expansion into new countries or geographic markets where we may be less familiar with operating requirements, target customers and regulatory compliance. Any one or more of these factors could increase our costs or cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of a business or assets.. While there are risks associated with acquisitions generally, including integration risks, there are additional risks more specifically associated with owning and operating businesses internationally, including those arising from import and export controls, foreign currency exchange rate changes, material developments in political, regulatory or economic conditions impacting those operations and various environmental and climatic conditions in particular areas of the world.. Financial Risk Factors. Changes in tax laws or challenges to the Company's tax positions by taxing authorities could adversely impact the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to taxes in jurisdictions in which we do business, including but not limited to taxes imposed on our income, receipts, stockholders' equity, property, sales, purchases and payroll. As a result, the tax expense we incur can be adversely affected by changes in tax law. We frequently cannot anticipate these changes in tax law, which can cause unexpected volatility in our results of operations. While not limited to the United States (U.S.) and Canada, changes in the tax law at the federal and state/provincial levels in the United States and Canada can have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. Additionally, the tax laws to which the Company is subject are inherently complex and ambiguous. Therefore, we must interpret the applicable laws and make subjective judgments about the expected outcome upon challenge by the applicable taxing authorities. As a result, the impact on our results from operations of the application of enacted tax laws to our facts and circumstances is frequently uncertain. If a tax authority successfully challenges our interpretation and application of the tax law to our facts and circumstances, there can be no assurance that we can accurately predict the outcome and the taxes ultimately owed upon effective settlement, which may differ from the tax expense recognized in our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income (loss) and accrued in our consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, if we cannot meet liquidity requirements in the United States, we may have to repatriate funds from overseas, which would result in additional income taxes being incurred on the amount repatriated.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"TCJA\") was enacted on December 22, 2017, and it significantly affected U.S. tax law by, among other things, changing how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations.  The TCJA requires complex computations not previously provided in U.S. tax law, and the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain in some respects.  Further, compliance with the TCJA and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced.  The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how the law is applied and thus impact our results of operations in the period issued.. Also on December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") issued guidance to address the accounting implications of the TCJA in which a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the TCJA. We have recorded provisional estimates in our financial statements with respect to certain income tax effects of the TCJA for which the accounting is incomplete, but a reasonable estimate was able to be determined.  We will continue to perform additional analysis on the application of the TCJA, taking into account any additional regulatory guidance that is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, which may result in adjustments to our previously reported provisional estimates.  In accordance with the SEC's guidance, we. 11. Table of Contents. will recognize any adjustments to our previously reported provisional estimates in the relevant future periods, which could materially affect our tax obligations and our effective tax rate.. Fluctuations in foreign currency have an effect on our results from operations.. The results of our foreign operations are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The exchange rates between some of these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years, and may continue to do so in the future. We may incur losses related to foreign currency fluctuations, and foreign exchange controls may prevent us from repatriating cash in countries outside the U.S.  In addition, because our financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars, such fluctuations may also affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.. Our outstanding indebtedness requires debt service commitments that could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations and could limit our growth and impose restrictions on our business.. As of December 31, 2017, excluding debt discount and debt issuance costs, we had $1.36 billion of consolidated indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may undertake additional borrowings in the future, subject to certain limitations contained in the debt instruments governing our indebtedness. Over the next three years, we will be required to repay or refinance approximately $512.8 million of our currently outstanding indebtedness.. Our debt service obligations impact our ability to operate and grow our business. Our payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness reduce the amount of funds available to us to invest in operations, future business opportunities, acquisitions, and other potentially beneficial activities. Our debt service obligations also increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, financial market and industry conditions.  Our ability to service and refinance our indebtedness, make scheduled payments on our operating leases and fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or other business opportunities, will depend in large part on both our future performance and the availability of additional financing in the future.  There can be no assurance that our business will continue to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future to service our debt, make necessary capital expenditures, or meet other cash needs. If unable to do so, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, sell assets, or obtain additional financing.. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business.. Our credit facilities require us to maintain specific earnings to fixed expense ratios and to meet minimum net worth requirements in certain circumstances. In addition, our credit facilities and our other debt agreements contain, and any of our future debt agreements may contain, additional covenant restrictions that limit our ability to operate our business, or are dependent upon our future financial performance.. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. See the liquidity section in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis\" for further details.. There is a risk that the market value of our common stock may decline.. Stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of companies in our industry have been volatile. For some issuers, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity. It is impossible to predict whether the price of our common stock will rise or fall. Trading prices of our common stock will be influenced by our operating results and prospects and by economic, political, financial, and other factors.. Regulatory and Legal Risk Factor. We are subject to costs and risks associated with global laws and regulations affecting our business, as well as litigation for product liability or other matters affecting our business.. The global legal and regulatory environment is complex and exposes us to compliance costs and risks, as well as litigation and other legal proceedings, which could materially affect our operations and financial results. These laws and regulations may change, sometimes significantly, as a result of political or economic events, and some changes are anticipated to occur in the coming year. They include tax laws and regulations, import and export laws and regulations, labor and employment laws and regulations, product safety, occupational safety and health laws and regulations, securities and exchange laws and regulations, data privacy laws and regulations (and other laws applicable to publicly-traded companies such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), and environmental laws and regulations. Furthermore, as a government contractor selling to federal, state and local government entities, we are also subject to a wide variety of additional laws and regulations. Proposed laws and regulations in these and other areas could affect the cost of our business operations.. 12. Table of Contents. From time to time we are involved in legal proceedings, audits or investigations which may relate to, for example, product liability, labor and employment (including wage and hour), tax, escheat, import and export compliance, government contracts, worker health and safety, and general commercial and securities matters. While we believe the outcome of any pending matter is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or liquidity, additional legal proceedings may arise in the future and the outcome of these as well as other contingencies could require us to take actions, which could adversely affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money."
