[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Prolonged unfavorable economic and market conditions could adversely affect our business.. Unfavorable general economic and market conditions in the United States and internationally could have a negative impact on our sales and operations. To the extent that these factors result in continued instability of capital markets, shortages of raw materials or component parts, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of customer orders or an inability to market our products effectively, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We are dependent upon key customers.. We rely on several key customers who represent a significant portion of our business. Our top customers can change from year to year. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, our top five customers accounted for approximately 18% of our net sales. While we believe our relationships with our customers are generally good, our top customers could choose to reduce or terminate their relationships with us. In addition, many of our customers place orders for products on an as-needed basis and operate in cyclical industries. As a result, their order levels have varied from period to period in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Such customer orders are dependent upon their markets and customers, and may be subject to delays and cancellations. As a result of our dependence on our key customers, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition if we lost any one or more of our key customers or if there is a reduction in their demand for our products.. Our business operates in a highly competitive industry.. We operate in a global, competitive marketplace and face substantial competition from a limited number of established competitors, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do. Price competition is strong and, coupled with the existence of a number of cost conscious customers, has historically limited our ability to increase prices. In addition to price, competition is based on product performance and technological leadership, quality, reliability of delivery and customer service and support. There can be no assurance that competition in one or more of our markets will not adversely affect us and our results of operations.. We intend to pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances that involve a number of inherent risks, any of which may cause us not to realize anticipated benefits.. One aspect of our business strategy is to selectively pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances that we believe will improve our market position, and provide opportunities to realize operating synergies. These transactions involve inherent risks and uncertainties, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition including:. • difficulties in achieving identified financial and operating synergies, including the integration of operations, services and products;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • the assumption of unknown liabilities; and. • unanticipated changes in the market conditions, business and economic factors affecting such an acquisition.. We cannot assure that we will be able to consummate any future acquisitions, joint ventures or other business combinations. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to consummate strategic acquisitions, we may be unable to fully implement our business strategy, and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. In addition, our ability to engage in strategic acquisitions will be dependent on our ability to raise substantial capital, and we may not be able to raise the funds necessary to implement our acquisition strategy on terms satisfactory to us, if at all.. As we introduce new products and services, a failure to predict and react to customer demand could adversely affect our business.. We have dedicated significant resources to the development, manufacturing and marketing of new products. Decisions to develop and market new transportation products are typically made without firm indications of customer acceptance. Moreover, by their nature, new products may require alteration of existing business methods or threaten to displace existing equipment in which our customers may have a substantial capital investment. There can be no assurance that any new products that we develop will gain widespread acceptance in the marketplace or that such products will be able to compete successfully with other new products or services that may be introduced by competitors. In addition, we may incur additional warranty or other costs as new products are tested and used by customers.. 11. A portion of our sales are related to delivering products and services to help our U.S. railroad and transit customers meet the Positive Train Control (PTC) mandate from the U.S. federal government, which requires the use of on-board locomotive computers and software by the end of 2018.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we had sales of about $322 million related to Train Control and Signaling, which includes PTC. In 2015, the industry's PTC deadline was extended by three years through December 31, 2018, which also included the ability of railroads to request an additional two years for compliance with the approval of the Department of Transportation if certain parameters are met.  This could change the timing of our revenues and could cause us to reassess the staffing, resources and assets deployed in delivering Positive Train Control services.. Our revenues are subject to cyclical variations in the railway and passenger transit markets and changes in government spending.. The railway industry historically has been subject to significant fluctuations due to overall economic conditions, the use of alternate methods of transportation and the levels of government spending on railway projects. In economic downturns, railroads have deferred, and may defer, certain expenditures in order to conserve cash in the short term. Reductions in freight traffic may reduce demand for our replacement products.. The passenger transit railroad industry is also cyclical. New passenger transit car orders vary from year to year and are influenced greatly by major replacement programs and by the construction or expansion of transit systems by transit authorities.  To the extent that future funding for proposed public projects is curtailed or withdrawn altogether as a result of changes in political, economic, fiscal or other conditions beyond our control, such projects may be delayed or cancelled, resulting in a potential loss of business for us, including transit aftermarket and new transit car orders. There can be no assurance that economic conditions will be favorable or that there will not be significant fluctuations adversely affecting the industry as a whole and, as a result, us.. Our backlog is not necessarily indicative of the level of our future revenues.. Our backlog represents future production and estimated potential revenue attributable to firm contracts with, or written orders from, our customers for delivery in various periods.  Instability in the global economy, negative conditions in the global credit markets, volatility in the industries that our products serve, changes in legislative policy, adverse changes in the financial condition of our customers, adverse changes in the availability of raw materials and supplies, or un-remedied contract breaches could possibly lead to contract termination or cancellations of orders in our backlog or request for deferred deliveries of our backlog orders, each of which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.. A growing portion of our sales may be derived from our international operations, which exposes us to certain risks inherent in doing business on an international level.. In fiscal year 2017, approximately 66% of our consolidated net sales were to customers outside of the U.S. and we intend to continue to expand our international operations in the future. Our global headquarters for the Transit group is located in France, and we currently conduct other international operations through a variety of wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries and joint ventures in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, China, Czech Republic, France, Germany, India, Italy, Macedonia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, Russia, Spain, South Africa, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. As a result, we are subject to various risks, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on those operations and on our business as a whole, including:. • lack of complete operating control;. • lack of local business experience;. • currency exchange fluctuations and devaluations;. • foreign trade restrictions and exchange controls;. • difficulty enforcing agreements and intellectual property rights;. • the potential for nationalization of enterprises; and. • economic, political and social instability and possible terrorist attacks against American interests.. In addition, certain jurisdictions have laws that limit the ability of non-U.S. subsidiaries and their affiliates to pay dividends and repatriate cash flows.. 12. We may have liability arising from asbestos litigation.. Claims have been filed against the Company and certain of its affiliates in various jurisdictions across the United States by persons alleging bodily injury as a result of exposure to asbestos-containing products. Most of these claims have been made against our wholly owned subsidiary, Railroad Friction Products Corporation (RFPC), and are based on a product sold by RFPC prior to the time that the Company acquired any interest in RFPC.. Most of these claims, including all of the RFPC claims, are submitted to insurance carriers for defense and indemnity or to non-affiliated companies that retain the liabilities for the asbestos-containing products at issue. We cannot, however, assure that all these claims will be fully covered by insurance or that the indemnitors or insurers will remain financially viable. Our ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to these claims, as is the case with most other pending litigation, cannot be estimated.. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations.. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing discharges to air and water, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous or solid waste materials and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances. We believe our operations currently comply in all material respects with all of the various environmental laws and regulations applicable to our business; however, there can be no assurance that environmental requirements will not change in the future or that we will not incur significant costs to comply with such requirements.. Future climate change regulation could result in increased operating costs, affect the demand for our products or affect the ability of our critical suppliers to meet our needs.. The Company has followed the current debate over climate change and the related policy discussion and prospective legislation. The potential challenges for the Company that climate change policy and legislation may pose have been reviewed by the Company. Any such challenges are heavily dependent on the nature and degree of climate change legislation and the extent to which it applies to our industry. At this time, the Company cannot predict the ultimate impact of climate change and climate change legislation on the Company's operations. Further, when or if these impacts may occur cannot be assessed until scientific analysis and legislative policy are more developed and specific legislative proposals begin to take shape. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of greenhouse gas could require us to incur increased operating costs, and could have an adverse effect on demand for our products. In addition, the price and availability of certain of the raw materials that we use could vary in the future as a result of environmental laws and regulations affecting our suppliers. An increase in the price of our raw materials or a decline in their availability could adversely affect our operating margins or result in reduced demand for our products.. The occurrence of litigation in which we could be named as a defendant is unpredictable.. From time to time, the Company is subject to litigation or other commercial disputes and other legal and regulatory proceedings with respect to our business, customers, suppliers, creditors, shareholders, product liability, intellectual property infringement, warranty claims or environmental-related matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of any litigation, commercial disputes or other legal or regulatory proceedings, the Company cannot accurately predict their ultimate outcome, including the outcome of any related appeals. We may incur significant expense to defend or otherwise address current or future claims. Any litigation, even a claim without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Although we maintain insurance policies for certain risks, we cannot make assurances that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to potential future claims or that these levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or at all.. The Company is subject to national and international laws and regulations, such as the anti-corruption laws of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the French Law n° 2016-1691 (Sapin II) and the U.K. Bribery Act, relating to its business and its employees. Despite the Company's policies, procedures and compliance programs, its internal controls and compliance systems may not be able to protect the Company from prohibited acts willfully committed by its employees, agents or business partners that would violate such applicable laws and regulations. Any such improper acts could damage the Company's reputation, subject it to civil or criminal judgments, fines or penalties, and could otherwise disrupt the Company's business, and as a result, could materially adversely impact the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, we may be adversely affected.. Our success can be impacted by our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. However, a significant portion of our technology is not patented and we may be unable or may not seek to obtain patent protection for this technology. Moreover,. 13. existing U.S. legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights offer only limited protection, may not provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. The laws of countries other than the United States may be even less protective of intellectual property rights. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise gaining access to our technology. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, then our business, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively impacted.. We face risks relating to cybersecurity attacks that could cause loss of confidential information and other business disruptions.. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business, and our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks. These could include attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and computer systems. Attacks can be both individual and/or highly organized attempts organized by very sophisticated hacking organizations. We employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, which include employee education, password encryption, frequent password change events, firewall detection systems, anti-virus software in-place and frequent backups; however, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber-attack. A cybersecurity attack could compromise the confidential information of our employees, customers and supplier, and potentially violate certain domestic and international privacy laws. Furthermore, a cybersecurity attack on our customers and suppliers could compromise our confidential information in the possession of our customers and suppliers.  A successful attack could disrupt and otherwise adversely affect our business operations, including through lawsuits by third-parties.. Our manufacturer's warranties or product liability may expose us to potentially significant claims.. We warrant the workmanship and materials of many of our products. Accordingly, we are subject to a risk of product liability or warranty claims in the event that the failure of any of our products results in personal injury or death, or does not conform to our customers' specifications. In addition, in recent years, we have introduced a number of new products for which we do not have a history of warranty experience. Although we currently maintain liability insurance coverage, we cannot assure that product liability claims, if made, would not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that insurance will continue to be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. The possibility exists for these types of warranty claims to result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs and damage to our reputation.. Labor disputes may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability.. We collectively bargain with labor unions at some of our operations throughout the world.  Failure to reach an agreement could result in strikes or other labor protests which could disrupt our operations. Furthermore, non-union employees in certain countries have the right to strike.  If we were to experience a strike or work stoppage, it would be difficult for us to find a sufficient number of employees with the necessary skills to replace these employees. We cannot assure that we will reach any such agreement or that we will not encounter strikes or other types of conflicts with the labor unions of our personnel. Such labor disputes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, could cause us to lose revenues and customers and might have permanent effects on our business.. We may incur increased costs due to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. In the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to increases in interest rates that may adversely affect funding costs associated with variable-rate debt and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  We may seek to minimize these risks through the use of interest rate swap contracts and currency hedging agreements.  There can be no assurance that any of these measures will be effective.  Material changes in interest or exchange rates could result in material losses to us.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health.. Being indebted could have important consequences to us.  At December 31, 2017, we had total debt of $1,870.5 million. If it becomes necessary to access our available borrowing capacity under our 2016 Refinancing Credit Agreement, the $853.1 million currently borrowed under this facility and the $747.7 million 3.450% senior notes, and the $248.6 million 4.375% senior notes. For example, it could:. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;. • place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds.. 14. The indenture for our $750 million 3.450% senior notes due in 2026, our $250 million 4.375% senior notes due in 2023, and our 2016 Refinancing Credit Agreement contain various covenants that limit our management's discretion in the operation of our businesses.. The 2016 Refinancing Credit Agreement limits the Company's ability to declare or pay cash dividends and prohibits the Company from declaring or making other distributions, subject to certain exceptions. The 2016 Refinancing Credit Agreement contains various other covenants and restrictions including the following limitations: incurrence of additional indebtedness; mergers, consolidations and sales of assets and acquisitions; additional liens; sale and leasebacks; permissible investments, loans and advances; certain debt payments; capital expenditures; and imposes a minimum interest expense coverage ratio and a maximum debt to EBITDA ratio.  See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and see Note 8 of \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.. The indentures under which the senior notes were issued contain covenants and restrictions which limit among other things, the following: the incurrence of indebtedness, payment of dividends and certain distributions, sale of assets, change in control, mergers and consolidations and the incurrence of liens.. The integration of our recently completed acquisitions may not result in anticipated improvements in market position or the realization of anticipated operating synergies or may take longer to realize than expected.. In 2016 and 2017, we completed multiple acquisitions with a combined investment of $1,865 million, which included our acquisition of Faiveley Transport for $1,507 million.  Although we believe that the acquisitions will improve our market position and realize positive operating results, including operating synergies, operating expense reductions and overhead cost savings, we cannot be assured that these improvements will be obtained or the timing of such improvements. The management and acquisition of businesses involves substantial risks, any of which may result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including:. • the uncertainty that an acquired business will achieve anticipated operating results;. • significant expenses to integrate;. • diversion of Management's attention;. • departure of key personnel from the acquired business;. • effectively managing entrepreneurial spirit and decision-making;. • integration of different information systems;. • unanticipated costs and exposure to unforeseen liabilities; and. • impairment of assets."
