[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The information contained in this report may contain \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  See \"FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS\" on page 56 for specific important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements.  The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below.. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses, which could materially adversely affect our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.  Adverse changes in equity markets, interest rates, debt markets or foreign currency exchange rates could result in significant losses to the value of our investment portfolio.. Our investment portfolio primarily consists of fixed maturity investments, short-term investments, common equity securities and other long-term investments, including hedge funds, private equity funds, non-controlling interests in private capital investments and foreign currency forward contracts.  We invest to maximize long-term after-tax total returns while taking prudent levels of risk and maintaining a diversified portfolio subject to our investment guidelines and various regulatory restrictions.  However, investing entails substantial risks.  We may not achieve our investment objectives, and our investment performance may vary substantially over time.  Investment returns are an important part of our strategy to grow adjusted book value per share, and fluctuations in the equity or fixed income markets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Both the fair market value of our investment portfolio and the investment income we generate are affected by general economic and market conditions that are outside of our control, including fluctuations in equity market levels, interest rates, debt market levels, foreign currency exchange rates and credit losses sustained by issuers.  A significant decline in the equity markets such as that experienced from September 2008 to March 2009 could have a material adverse effect on our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.  We are also exposed to changes in debt markets.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control.  In particular, a significant increase in interest rates could result in significant losses in the value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could materially adversely affect our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.  We also hold investments, such as hedge funds, private equity funds, and private capital investments that are not regularly traded in active investment markets and may be illiquid.  These investments can experience volatility in their returns or valuation, which could adversely affect our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, a portion of our investment portfolio is invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, predominantly GBP, Japanese Yen and the Euro.  A significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar against these other currencies could adversely affect our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.. We have successfully created shareholder value through acquisitions and dispositions.  We may not be able to continue to create shareholder value through such transactions in the future.. In past years, we have completed numerous acquisitions and dispositions, many of which have contributed significantly to our growth in adjusted book value per share.  Failure to identify and complete future acquisition and disposition opportunities could limit our ability to grow our adjusted book value per share.  Even if we were to identify and complete future acquisition or disposition opportunities, there is no assurance that such opportunities will ultimately achieve their anticipated benefits.. BAM may not maintain a favorable financial strength rating and that could adversely affect its ability to conduct business, which could materially adversely affect our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength of insurers, including claims-paying ability. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies and are subject to revision at any time at the sole discretion of the agencies.  Some of the criteria relate to general economic conditions and other circumstances outside the rated company's control.  These financial strength ratings are used by outside parties to assess the suitability of BAM as a business counterparty, and is an important factor in establishing BAM's competitive position.. Rating agencies periodically evaluate BAM to confirm that it continues to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to it.  Most recently, on June 6, 2017, S&P placed BAM on credit watch negative and initiated a detailed review of BAM's financial strength rating.  On June 26, 2017, S&P concluded its review and affirmed BAM's \"AA/stable\" financial strength rating.  During the time that BAM was under review by S&P, it voluntarily withdrew from the marketplace and did not write any municipal bond insurance policies.. 17. The maintenance of an \"AA\" or better financial strength rating from Standard & Poor's is particularly important to BAM's ability to write municipal bond insurance and meet its debt service obligations under the BAM Surplus Notes.  As of February 28, 2018, BAM is rated \"AA/stable\" by Standard & Poor's.  A downgrade, withdrawal or negative watch/outlook of BAM's financial strength rating could severely limit or prevent BAM's ability to write policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.. If BAM does not pay some or all of the interest and principal due on the BAM Surplus Notes, White Mountains's adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. As of December 31, 2017, White Mountains owned $499 million in BAM Surplus Notes and had accrued $126 million in interest due thereon.  No payment of interest or principal on the BAM Surplus Notes may be made without the approval of the NYDFS.  Under its agreements with HG Global, BAM is required to seek regulatory approval to pay interest and principal on the BAM Surplus Notes only to the extent that its capital resources support its outstanding obligations, business plan and ratings.  It is unlikely that BAM will pay interest and principal on the BAM Surplus Notes if such payments could lead to a ratings downgrade.  In the fourth quarter of 2017, the NYDFS approved a payment on the BAM Surplus Notes of $4 million of principal and $1 million of accrued interest.  We cannot guarantee that the NYDFS will approve payments on the BAM Surplus Notes in the future.. Interest payments on the BAM Surplus Notes are due quarterly but are subject to deferral, without penalty or default and without compounding, for payment in the future.  No principal is due on the BAM Surplus Notes prior to the stated maturity date of 2042.. BAM's premiums are dependent on a number of factors, many of which are beyond BAM's control, including primary municipal bond issuance levels, insured penetration rates, interest rate levels, credit spreads, trading value, capture rate and market share.  In addition, the municipal bond insurance industry is highly competitive.  BAM's primary competitor is Assured.  BAM and Assured each seek to differentiate itself through financial strength ratings, claims paying resources and underwriting strategies.  If BAM is unable to differentiate itself from Assured, it could result in fewer policies issued, lower premium levels and less favorable policy terms and conditions.. During 2017, BAM's total premiums were $100 million, of which $37 million were MSC and $63 million were risk premiums.  BAM must increase these premium levels in the future in order to be able to pay the amounts due on the BAM Surplus Notes.  If BAM does not pay some or all of the amounts due on the BAM Surplus Notes, our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted.. We may be treated as a PFIC, in which case a U.S. holder of our common shares could be subject to disadvantageous rules under U.S. federal income tax laws.. Significant potential adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences apply to any U.S. person who owns shares in a passive foreign investment company (\"PFIC\"). In general, a non-U.S. corporation is classified as a PFIC for a taxable year in which, after taking into account the income and assets of the corporation and certain subsidiaries pursuant to certain \"look-through\" rules, either (i) 75% or more of its gross income is passive income or (ii) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of its gross assets is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income.  If a corporation is treated as a PFIC for a taxable year, it is generally treated as a PFIC for all later taxable years.. Passive income for PFIC purposes generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income, subject to certain exceptions.  Under a special exception for insurance companies, income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business, including investment income derived in such an insurance business, generally is not treated as passive income for purposes of the PFIC rules.  The recently-enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"TCJA\") modified the insurance exception to apply to a company only if (i) the company would be taxed as an insurance company were it a U.S. corporation and (ii) either (A) loss and loss adjustment expenses and certain reserves constitute more than 25% of the company's gross assets for the relevant year or (B) loss and loss adjustments expenses and certain reserves constitute more than 10% of the company's gross assets for the relevant year and, based on the applicable facts and circumstances, the company is predominantly engaged in an insurance business and the failure of the company to satisfy the preceding 25% test is due solely to run-off related or rating-related circumstances involving the insurance business.. At the present time White Mountains does not qualify for the insurance exception described above. However, based on the income and assets of White Mountains and, under applicable \"look-through\" rules, the income and assets of its subsidiaries, we believe that White Mountains should not be treated as a PFIC, and we do not expect that White Mountains will become a PFIC in the future. However, there is no assurance that White Mountains will not become a PFIC at some future time as a result of changes in our assets, income or business operations. In addition, there is no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will not successfully argue that White Mountains is now, or in the future may become, a PFIC.. 18. If we are determined to be a PFIC, a U.S. person may be subject to less advantageous tax consequences upon the sale, exchange or receipt of dividends with respect to our common shares and may be required to pay U.S. federal income tax at ordinary income rates for gains and dividends, as well as an interest charge on certain \"excess distributions.\" Certain elections designed to mitigate the adverse consequences of owning shares in a PFIC, including a \"Protective QEF Election,\" may be available. If you are a U.S. person, we encourage you to consult your own tax advisor concerning the potential tax consequences to you under the PFIC rules.. The Company and our non-U.S. subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. tax, which may have a material adverse effect on our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company and our non-U.S. subsidiaries operate in a manner such that none of these companies should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on some types of U.S. source investment income) because none of these companies should be treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States.  However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") will not contend successfully that the Company or its non-U.S. subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States.  If the Company or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, such entity could be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, which could materially adversely affect our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in tax laws or tax treaties could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The income of our U.S. subsidiaries is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax and other taxes.  The TCJA contains changes that decrease the tax rate applicable to our U.S. subsidiaries, but also could increase their taxable income.  The Company is monitoring potential impacts based on the newly enacted provisions.. The income of the non-U.S. companies in our group is generally subject to a lower tax rate than that imposed by the United States.  Certain of our non-U.S. companies are eligible for the benefits of tax treaties between the United States and other countries.  We believe our non-U.S. companies will continue to be eligible for treaty benefits.  However, it is possible that factual changes or changes to U.S. tax laws or changes to tax treaties that presently apply to our non-U.S. companies could increase income subject to tax, or the tax rate on income, in the United States.  Similarly, changes to the applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations of other countries could subject the income of members of our group to higher rates of tax outside the United States.  Additionally, the base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") project currently being undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (\"OECD\") and the European Commission's investigation into illegal state aid may result in changes to long standing tax principles, which could materially adversely affect our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.. Our non-U.S. subsidiaries will be treated as CFCs and may subject a U.S. 10% shareholder of our common shares to disadvantageous rules under U.S. federal income tax laws.. The TCJA modified certain U.S. tax rules that apply to controlled foreign corporations (\"CFCs\").  As a result of these changes, each of our non-U.S. subsidiaries will be treated as a CFC for 2017 and for later years. If any of our shareholders during 2017 or later years is a \"U.S. 10% shareholder\" (as described below) that directly or indirectly owns stock in White Mountains, that shareholder must include in its taxable income each year its pro rata share of our CFC subsidiaries' \"subpart F income\" for that year, even if no distributions are received by the U.S. 10% shareholder.. For 2017, a shareholder will be treated as a U.S. 10% shareholder if the shareholder is a U.S. person who owns directly, indirectly or through constructive ownership rules 10% or more of the voting power of our shares. We believe that the restrictions placed on the voting power of our shares should generally prevent shareholders of White Mountains from being treated as U.S. 10% shareholders for 2017. Due to changes made by the TCJA, however, for 2018 and later years a shareholder will be treated as a U.S. 10% shareholder if the shareholder is a U.S. person who owns directly, indirectly or through constructive ownership rules 10% or more of either the voting power or the total value of our shares. As a result, a U.S. person that owns (directly, indirectly or through constructive ownership rules) 10% or more of our shares will generally be treated for 2018 and later years as a U.S. 10% shareholder of our CFC subsidiaries, notwithstanding the voting power restrictions of our shares.  However, a person that is a U.S. 10% shareholder solely as a result of constructive ownership rules (i.e., such person does not directly or indirectly own stock of White Mountains) should not have a subpart F income inclusion with respect to our CFC subsidiaries.. If you are a U.S. person who might be a U.S. 10% shareholder, we encourage you to consult your own tax advisor concerning the CFC rules.. 19. We may be deemed to be an investment company under U.S. federal securities law.. The Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the \"Investment Company Act\"), regulates certain companies that are engaged in the business of investing in or trading securities. Although the recent completion of the OneBeacon Transaction and other recent dispositions have resulted in the Company currently having a high level of undeployed capital relative to our historic levels, we do not believe that we are an investment company under the Investment Company Act.  White Mountains has been, and will continue to be, engaged in the business of making opportunistic and value-oriented acquisitions of businesses and assets in the insurance, financial services and related sectors, operating these businesses and assets through our subsidiaries and, if and when attractive exit valuations become available, disposing of these businesses and assets.. However, notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company is found to be an investment company and becomes obligated to register as such under the Investment Company Act, we would attempt to implement various changes to our operations and capital structure. There can be no assurance that the implementation of these changes would be successful.  If the Company were ultimately required to register as an investment company, it would become subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulation relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, our ability to raise additional debt and equity capital or issue options or warrants (which could impact our ability to compensate key employees), financial leverage, dividends, board of director composition and transactions with affiliates. Accordingly, if we were required to register as an investment company, we may not be able to operate our business as it is currently conducted.. If at any time it were found that we had been operating as an investment company in violation of the registration requirements of the Investment Company Act, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, that we could be unable to enforce contracts with third parties, or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period in which it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. If, subsequently, we were not permitted or were unable to register as an investment company, it is possible that we would be forced to cease operations.. We may be unable to adequately maintain our systems and safeguard the security of our data, which may adversely impact our ability to operate our business and cause reputational harm and financial loss.. Because our business and operations rely on secure and efficient information technology systems, we depend on our ability, and the ability of certain third parties, including vendors and business partners, to access our computer systems to perform necessary functions such as providing quotes and product pricing, billing and processing transactions, administering claims, and reporting our financial results.  The functioning of these systems may be impacted by any number of events, including power outages, natural and manmade catastrophes, and cyber-attacks.  In the event we are unable to access any of our systems, or any third-party system that we rely upon, our ability to operate our business effectively may be significantly impaired.. Our business also depends upon our ability to securely process, store, transmit and safeguard confidential and proprietary information that is in our possession.  This information includes confidential information relating to our business, and personally identifiable information (\"PII\") and protected health information (\"PHI\") belonging to our employees, customers, claimants and business partners.  Because our systems may be vulnerable to a variety of forms of unauthorized access that could result in a data breach, including hackers, computer viruses, and other cyber-attacks, as well as breaches that result from dishonest employees, errors by employees or lost or stolen computer devices, we may not be able to protect the confidentiality of such information.. Third parties present an additional risk of cyber-related events.  We outsource certain technological and business process functions to third-party providers.  We rely on these third parties to maintain and store PII and PHI and other confidential information on their systems.  We also routinely transmit such information by e-mail and other electronic means.  Although we attempt to establish sufficient controls and secure capabilities to transmit such information and to prevent unauthorized disclosure, these controls may not be sufficient.  Furthermore, third-party providers may not have appropriate controls in place to protect such information.. Our computer systems have been and will continue to be the target of cyber-attacks, although we are not aware that we have experienced a material cybersecurity breach.  We are also not aware of any third-party vendor having experienced a material cybersecurity breach that impacted our data.  The risk of a cyber-attack may increase, and we may experience more significant attacks in the future.. The risks identified above could expose us to data breaches, disruptions of service, financial losses and significant increases in compliance costs and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, a data breach that involves the compromise of PII or PHI, could subject us to legal liability or regulatory action under data protection and privacy laws and regulations enacted by federal, state and foreign governments, or other regulatory bodies.  As a result, our ability to conduct our business and our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. 20. We depend on our key personnel to manage our business effectively and they may be difficult to replace.. Our performance substantially depends on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other executive officers and key employees.  Furthermore, much of our competitive advantage is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key management personnel.  We do not have fixed term employment agreements with any of our key employees or key man life insurance and the loss of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Our success also depends on the ability to hire and retain additional personnel.  Difficulty in hiring or retaining personnel could materially adversely affect our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.. We may suffer losses from unfavorable outcomes from litigation and other legal proceedings.. From time to time we are subject to legal proceedings.  In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more legal matters, our ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts we have reserved and such additional amounts could adversely affect our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.  Furthermore, it is possible that these legal proceedings could result in equitable remedies or other unexpected outcomes that could materially adversely affect our adjusted book value per share, results on operations and financial condition.. Regulation may restrict our ability to operate.. Changes in laws and regulations may restrict our ability to operate and/or have an adverse effect upon the profitability of our business within a given jurisdiction.  For example, as a result of various state, federal and international regulatory efforts to modernize and harmonize insurer solvency regulations in the wake of the recent financial crisis, the states could further restrict allowable investments or increase our capital requirements, both of which could materially adversely affect our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition.. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders.. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda, and a portion of our assets are located outside the United States.  As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States, either in Bermuda or in countries other than the United States where we will have assets.  In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws.. Our corporate affairs are governed by the Companies Act.  The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors.  Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only.  Shareholders of Bermuda companies generally do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances.  Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law.  The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws.  Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against non-controlling shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company's shareholders than that which actually approved it.. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company's affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company.  Additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by Bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty.  In addition, the rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the United States, particularly the State of Delaware.  Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States.. 21. We could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies, and legal and regulatory standards are not effective.. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to successfully execute a large number of transactions, many of which are complex.  These processes are often subject to internal guidelines and policies, and government regulation.  A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met.  If controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure, or damage to our reputation.. 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments. As of the date of this report, the Company had no unresolved comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act."
