[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below and in other reports that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The matters discussed in the risk factors, and additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and future growth prospects and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. Risks Related to our Business and our Industry. We have had a history of losses; and we may be unable to achieve and sustain profitability.. We have had a history of net losses, including net losses of $3.5 million in 2017 and $4.2 million in 2016. The Company  used cash from operations, debt and capital raises to fund internal infrastructure improvement projects, product development research related to Cert-on-Device and to expand sales and marketing activities to prepare for going to market with our new solutions over the last four years  and those initiatives did not provide the return on investment expected. Also, customer cost cutting initiatives and aggressive pricing pressure from our closest competitors put downward pressure on pricing for our services and negatively affected our earnings. As a result  we incurred net losses and placed a significant strain on our available cash. Our historical net losses and could potentially impact our ability to obtain access to future credit facilities. Future product development activities were curtailed in the second half of 2017. We maintain a strong set of intellectual property assets and capabilities, as such, we are able quickly to ramp up investments in our product development as need arises. Generating positive cash flow and net income is one of our primary goals as such we have executed a number of planned cost reduction initiatives, significantly reduce and/or eliminate spending on research and development projects and successfully execute on our strategy of growing of business through sales of higher margin services.. There is no guarantee that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. An inability to successfully achieve profitability will decrease our long-term viability and place a significant financial strain on the business.. We currently have access to a credit facility agreement, which requires us to maintain financial covenants and failure to maintain such covenants could limit our access to debt capital and simultaneously require immediate repayment of borrowings by our lender.. Historically, we have had access to a credit facility, which consists of a variable line of credit to fund acquisition growth and working capital. Our credit facility agreement requires us to maintain certain financial covenants on a quarterly and annual basis. If we are unable to meet future covenants, such failures could result in our lender accelerating in part or in full payment of all unpaid principal and interest which could have an adverse our ability to fund acquisition initiatives using debt and fund periodic short term operational cash flow requirements. Similarly, if we are unable to renew or access the credit facility in the future, our business and operating results will suffer and we may need to obtain additional funding, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all.. We may need to obtain additional financing to meet our future capital needs and/or be required to significantly cut back our operations, sell assets or cease operations.. We took fairly significant cost savings actions during the third and fourth quarters of 2017. Our organizational restructuring activities included streamlining executive management, mid-level management and redundant and expensive subject matter experts. However, if we are unable to close significant new customer contracts over the next fiscal year and or retain our key customer contracts we may have to significantly cut back our operations, defer potentially favorable acquisitions, and/or sell some or all of our assets if our financial performance deteriorates. There is also no guarantee that we will be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all, and any inability to raise additional capital could have an impact on our ability to continue to operate our business.. 9. The loss of one or more significant customers could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Due to the nature of our business and the relative size of certain contracts, which are entered into in the ordinary course of business, the loss of any single significant customer, could have a material adverse effect on results. Historically, we have derived, and may in the future derive, a significant percentage of our total revenues from the U.S Federal Government and a relatively small number of large multinational customers. If we are unable to win new work or continue to renew existing contracts with our significant customers, our results will be materially adversely impacted. For example, our Blanket Purchase Agreement with the Department of Homeland Security expires on December 16, 2018 and is up for renewal. Although we believe we are likely to win the renewal of such contract, there can be no guarantee that we will not lose such contract to one or more of our competitors. Any loss of a significant customer or the failure to renew a significant contract will have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our market is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively or gain market acceptance of our products and service.. The markets for the services and products we provide are highly competitive and rapidly changing due to changes in technology. We expect the intensity of competition for government and commercial customer to increase in the future as existing competitors develop their capabilities. While we believe our customer service, strong customer retention and integrated technology solution sets are among our key differentiators, our competitors may offer introductory pricing and significantly discount their services to gain market share and/or in exchange for revenues with higher margin services in other areas or at later dates. Increased competition could result in additional pricing pressure, reduced sales, shorter term lengths for customer contracts, lower margins or the failure of our solution to achieve or maintain broad market acceptance. If we are unable to compete effectively, it will be difficult for us to maintain our pricing rates and add and retain customers, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed.. In addition, due to competitive factors, such as access to customers or the development of superior products of services, our business will be harmed if we are unable to gain market acceptance of our products. Since we have less resources than many of our competitors, the failure of one of our products or services to gain market acceptance will cause us greater harm due to the costs involved in developing or acquiring new products and services as we must carefully consider the allocation of our resources given our financial position. Furthermore, larger companies tend to hold a significant advantage over us with potential customers due to their name brand recognition, longevity and resources. Any failure to gain market acceptances of our products and services will have a material adverse impact on our operations and our ability to continue our business.. If we cannot keep pace with the intense competition in our marketplace, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer.. 10. We have significant fixed operating costs, which may be difficult to adjust in response to unanticipated fluctuations in revenues.. A high percentage of our cash operating expenses, particularly personnel, rent and communications costs, are fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, an unanticipated decrease in the number or average size of, or an unanticipated delay in the scheduling for our projects may cause significant variations in operating results in any particular quarter and could have a material adverse effect on operations for that quarter. An unanticipated termination or decrease in size or scope of a major project, a client’s decision not to proceed with a project we anticipated on the time frame that we had anticipated, such as the U.S. Coast Guard, or at all or the completion during a quarter of several major client projects could require us to maintain underutilized employees and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our revenues and earnings may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter because of such factors as:. §the contractual terms and timing of completion of projects, including achievement of certain business results;. §the acceptance of our products to commercial or government customers;. §decreases in the budgets for government customers;. §any delays in connection with projects or expected new sales or customers;. §the adequacy of provisions for losses and bad debts;. §the accuracy of our estimates of resources required to complete ongoing projects;. §loss of key highly skilled personnel necessary to complete projects; and. §general economic conditions.. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes with new software products and services, which could harm our sales and profitability.. Our portfolio of products, services, and solutions could become obsolete due to rapid technological changes and frequent new product and service introductions by our competitors in the mobile world. Additionally, frequent changes in mobile computing hardware and software technology, and resulting inconsistencies between, the billing platforms utilized by major communications carriers and the changing demands of customers regarding the means of delivery of communications management solutions could affect our ability to efficiently deliver our services and harm our profit margins.. To achieve and maintain market acceptance for our solution, we must effectively anticipate these changes and offer software products and services that respond to them in a timely manner. Customers may require customized transactional and reporting capabilities that our current solution does not have and/or may be cost prohibitive to develop to meet the customer’s requirements and ensure our contract is profitable. In addition, the development of new products and services comes with a high degree of uncertainty with regard to return on investment and involves significant time and financial resources to action, as there is no guarantee that the funds and time spent on developing such products will ever generate a return. If we fail to develop software products and services that satisfy customer preferences in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to renew our agreements with existing customers and our ability to create or increase demand for our solution will be harmed.. We may lose money if we do not accurately price our products and services or estimate the costs of fixed-price engagements.. We are working towards growing our business profitability. The development and sale of new products, involves estimates of (i) our actual costs and expenses, (ii) prices that the customers will pay and (iii) other factors, some of which may be beyond our control. Our inability to accurately price and sell our products at an acceptable profit margin that customers are willing to pay will have a negative impact on our business. In addition, some of our projects may be based on fixed-price, fixed-time contracts, rather than contracts in which payment to us is determined on a time and materials basis. The long-term nature of our contracts means that our failure to accurately price our products can have a negative impact over a number of years. Our failure to accurately estimate, manage client expectations to our statement of work or effectively manage the resources required for a project (including appropriate overhead and general and administrative support costs), client driven actions that causes our original project plan to be delayed, or our failure to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project plan upon which our fixed-price, fixed-time contract was based, could adversely affect our overall profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may fix the price for some projects at an early stage of the process, which could result in a fixed price that turns out to be too low and, therefore, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 11. Our clients could unexpectedly terminate their contracts for our services.. Some of our contracts can be canceled by the client for convenience with limited advance notice and without significant penalty. In addition, our contracts with the federal government permit the governmental agency to modify, curtail or terminate the contract at any time for the convenience of the government. Termination by any client of a contract for our services could result in a loss of expected revenues and additional expenses for staff that were allocated to that client’s project. We could be required to maintain underutilized employees who were assigned to the terminated contract. The unexpected cancellation or significant reduction in the scope of any of our large projects could have an immediate material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in the spending policies or budget priorities of the federal government could cause us to lose revenues.. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from contracts funded by federal government agencies. We believe that contracts with federal government agencies will be a significant source of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, changes in federal government fiscal or spending policies or the U.S. federal budget could directly affect our financial performance. Currently, we are unable to assess whether the new Trump administration will propose budget cuts that impact the agencies that purchase our products and services. Among the factors that could harm our business are:. §curtailment of the federal government’s use of technology services firms;. §a significant decline in spending by the federal government, in general, or by specific agencies such as the Department of Defense;. §reductions in federal government programs or requirements, including government agency shutdowns and/or reductions in connection with sequestration;. §any failure to raise the debt ceiling;. §a shift in spending to federal programs and agencies that we do not support or where we currently do not have contracts;. §delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices;. §federal governmental shutdowns, and other potential delays in the government appropriations process; and. §general economic and political conditions, including any event that results in a change in spending priorities of the federal government.. These or other factors could cause federal government agencies and departments to delay payments owed for our services, to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts, or not to exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could cause us to lose revenues. In addition, any limitations imposed on spending by U.S. government agencies that result from efforts to reduce the federal deficit, including as a result of sequestration or otherwise, may limit both the continued funding of our existing contracts and our ability to obtain additional contracts.. 12. We may be unable to successfully implement our acquisition program.. Our business strategy includes the potential future acquisition of, or investment in, complementary and supplementary businesses, services or technologies. Demand for businesses with credible business relationships and capabilities to provide services to large commercial enterprises and/or governmental agencies at the federal, state and local level is very competitive. To the extent that the price of such acquisitions may rise beyond reasonable levels where funding for such acquisitions is no longer available, we may not be able to implement our acquisition strategy. Further, these acquisitions, investments or new business relationships may result in unforeseen difficulties and expenditures. We may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, services, personnel or operations of companies we have acquired or companies that we may in the future acquire. These difficulties may arise if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, the company’s technology or services do not easily integrate with ours or we have difficulty retaining the acquired company’s customers due to changes in its management or for other reasons. These acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown liabilities. In addition, any future acquisition may require us to:. §issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders;. §use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business;. §incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay;. §incur large charges or substantial liabilities; or. §become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges.. If any of these risks materializes, our business and operating results would be harmed.. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by our services or by our failure to remedy system failures.. Many of our projects involve technology applications or systems that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses. If we fail to perform our services correctly, we may be unable to deliver applications or systems to our clients with the promised functionality or within the promised time frame, or to satisfy the required service levels for support and maintenance. While we have created redundancy and back-up systems, any such failures by us could result in claims by our clients for substantial damages against us. Additionally, in the event we manage third party services on behalf of our customers and fail to execute in approved changes requested by our customers it could result in claims asserted by our clients for substantial damages against us. Although we attempt to limit the amount and type of our contractual liability for defects in the applications or systems we provide, and carry insurance coverage that mitigates this liability in certain instances, we cannot be assured that these limitations and insurance coverages will be applicable and enforceable in all cases. Even if these limitations and insurance coverages are found to be applicable and enforceable, our liability to our clients for these types of claims could still exceed our insurance coverage and be material in amount and affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to protect our proprietary software and methodology.. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary software, methodology and other intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. We generally enter into nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees, partners, consultants, independent sales agents and clients, and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we take in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, statutory contracting regulations protect the rights of federal agencies to retain access to, and utilization of, proprietary intellectual property utilized in the delivery of contracted services to such agencies. We have attempted to put in place certain safeguards in our policies and procedures to protect intellectual property developed by employees. Our policies and procedures stipulate that intellectual property created by employees and its consultants remain our property. If we are unable to protect our proprietary software and methodology, the value of our business may decrease and we may face increased competition.. 13. Assertions by a third party that our software products or technology infringes its intellectual property, whether or not correct, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses.. Although we believe that our services and products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, infringement claims may be asserted against us in the future. There is frequent litigation in the communications and technology industries based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us may increase. These claims, whether or not successful, could:. §divert management’s attention;. §result in costly and time-consuming litigation;. §require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all; or. §require us to redesign our software products to avoid infringement.. As a result, any third-party intellectual property claims against us could increase our expenses and impair our business. In addition, although we have licensed proprietary technology, we cannot be certain that the owners’ rights in such technology will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Furthermore, many of our customer agreements require us to indemnify our customers for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling related to any such claims. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our customers, may deter future customers from purchasing our software products or could expose us to litigation for these claims. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party, an adverse outcome in any such litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our intellectual property in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named party.. Our net operating loss carry-forwards may be subject to a valuation adjustment if we do not maintain and increase our profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, we had aggregate federal net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately $36.7 million and state net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately $43.9 million. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards and related deferred tax assets is based upon our ability to generate future taxable income. Our ability to generate future taxable income can be impacted by many circumstances. If we fail to generate taxable income our existing net operating loss carry-forwards and related deferred tax assets may expire unused. In addition, net operating loss carry-forwards may become subject to an annual limitation if there is a cumulative change in the ownership interest of significant stockholders (or certain stockholder groups) over a three-year period in excess of 50%, in accordance with rules established under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, and similar state rules (we refer to each as an ownership change). Such an ownership change could limit the amount of historic net operating loss carry-forwards that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income.. 14. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel may impair our ability to grow our business.. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our key executives, operational managers and subject matter experts to run our core operations. The replacement of these individuals likely would involve expenditure of significant time and financial resources, and their loss might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We do not maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of our key executives and subject matter experts.. We plan to continue to replenish our ranks with the best available talent to optimize our workforce to do more with less resources. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous consulting, technology, software and communications companies. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified personnel to support our growth. New hires may require significant training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity. If our recruiting, training and retention efforts are not successful or do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue, our business will be harmed.. In addition, if our key employees resign from us or our subsidiaries to join a competitor or to form a competing company, the loss of such personnel and any resulting loss of existing or potential clients to any such competitor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we require certain of our employees to sign agreements prohibiting them from joining a competitor, forming a competing company or soliciting our clients or employees for certain periods of time, we cannot be certain that these agreements will be effective in preventing our key employees from engaging in these actions or that courts or other adjudicative entities will substantially enforce these agreements.. We may incur substantial costs in connection with contracts awarded through a competitive procurement process, which could negatively impact our operating results.. Most if not all federal, state and local governments, as well as commercial contracts are awarded through a competitive procurement process that could be a year or more from the initial solicitation to final contract award. We expect that much of the business we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive procedures and similar lengthy sales cycle. Competitive procurements impose substantial upfront costs and present a number of risks, including:. §the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us;. §requirements to register to conduct business in another state or country could increase our compliance costs;. §requirements to post a bid guarantee or similar performance guarantee as part of a bid submission; and. §the expense and delay that we may face if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive procedures, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of offers, or in termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract.. The costs we incur in the competitive procurement process may be substantial and, to the extent we participate in competitive procurements and are unable to win particular contracts, these costs could negatively affect our operating results. In addition, the General Services Administration multiple award schedule contracts, government-wide acquisitions contracts, blanket purchase agreements, and other indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contracts do not guarantee more than a minimal amount of work for us, but instead provide us access to work generally through further competitive procedures. This competitive process may result in increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring that we make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenues under the relevant contract.. 15. Unfavorable government audit results could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions, and could harm our reputation and relationships with our clients.. The federal government audits and reviews our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. Like most large government contractors, our contracts are audited and reviewed on a continual basis by federal agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency. An unfavorable audit of us, or of our subcontractors, could have a substantial adverse effect on our operating results. For example, any costs that were originally reimbursed could subsequently be disallowed. In this case, cash we have already collected may need to be refunded.. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true.. Security breaches in sensitive government systems could result in the loss of clients and negative publicity.. Many of the services we provide involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security, and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for federal government clients. We could incur losses from such a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our errors and omissions and product liability insurance. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of the systems we develop, install, and maintain could materially reduce our revenues.. Many states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify consumers of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether successful or not, would harm our reputation and could cause the loss of customers. Any of these events could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and operating results.. Our ability to provide services to our customers depends on our customers’ continued high-speed access to the internet and the continued reliability of the internet infrastructure.. Our business depends on our customers’ continued high-speed access to the internet, as well as the continued maintenance and development of the internet infrastructure. The future delivery of our solutions will depend on third-party internet service providers to expand high-speed internet access, to maintain a reliable network with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, and to develop complementary solutions and services, including high-speed modems, for providing reliable and timely internet access and services. All of these factors are out of our control. To the extent that the internet continues to experience an increased number of users, frequency of use, or bandwidth requirements, the internet may become congested and be unable to support the demands placed on it, and its performance or reliability may decline. Any internet outages or delays could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our customers.. 16. Currently, internet access is provided by telecommunications companies and internet access service providers that have significant and increasing market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace. On December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission classified broadband internet access service as an unregulated information service and repealed the specific rules against blocking, throttling or “paid prioritization” of content or services. In the absence of government regulation, these providers could take measures that affect their customers’ ability to use our products and services, such attempting to charge their customers more for using our products and services. To the extent that internet service providers implement usage-based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks, we could incur greater operating expenses and customer acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit our services from being available to our customers through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. Some of these providers may also offer products and services that directly compete with our own offerings, which could potentially give them a competitive advantage.. Our failure to obtain and maintain security certifications and necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work directly for government clients as a prime contractor or subcontractor, which could cause us to lose business.. Some government contracts require us to maintain both federal and industry recognized security certifications of our systems, facility security clearances, and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. If we are unable to maintain security certifications of our systems, or our employees lose or are unable to timely obtain security clearances, or we lose a facility clearance, our client may have the right to terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent we cannot obtain or maintain the required security certifications and clearances for a particular contract, or we fail to obtain them on a timely basis, we may not derive the revenues anticipated from the contract, which, if not replaced with revenues from other contracts, could harm our operating results. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we will be unable to perform that contract and we may not be able to compete for or win new contracts for similar work.. Federal government contracts contain provisions giving government clients a variety of rights that are unfavorable to us, including the ability to terminate a contract at any time for convenience.. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government clients with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These rights and remedies allow government clients, among other things, to:. §terminate existing contracts, with short notice, for convenience, as well as for default;. §reduce orders under or otherwise modify contracts;. §for larger contracts subject to the Truth in Negotiations Act, reduce the contract price or cost where it was increased because a contractor or subcontractor during negotiations furnished cost or pricing data that was not complete, accurate, and current;. §for GSA multiple award schedule contracts, government-wide acquisition agreements, and blanket purchase agreements, demand a refund, make a forward price adjustment, or terminate a contract for default if a contractor provided inaccurate or incomplete data during the contract negotiation process, or reduce the contract price under certain triggering circumstances, including the revision of pricelists or other documents. §upon which the contract award was predicated, the granting of more favorable discounts or terms and conditions than those contained in such documents, and the granting of certain special discounts to certain clients;. §terminate our facility security clearances and thereby prevent us from receiving classified contracts;. §cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable;. 17. §decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract or issue task orders in connection with indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contracts;. §claim rights in solutions, systems, and technology produced by us;. §prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency due to a finding of organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors or the existence of conflicting roles that might bias a contractor’s judgment;. §subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest and may also result in a requirement to resubmit offers for the contract or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract; and. §suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government.. If a federal government client terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If a federal government client were to unexpectedly terminate, cancel, or decline to exercise an option to renew with respect to one or more of our significant contracts or suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government, our revenues and operating results would be materially harmed.. Our failure to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties.. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts, which affect how we do business with our federal government clients and may impose added costs on our business. Among the most significant laws and regulations are:. §the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and agency regulations analogous or supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts;. §the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with some contract negotiations;. §the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose cost accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under some cost-based government contracts; and. §laws, regulations, and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of specified solutions and technical data.. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including the termination of our contracts, the forfeiture of profits, the suspension of payments owed to us, fines, and our suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In particular, the civil False Claims Act provides for treble damages and potentially substantial civil penalties where, for example, a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment or approval, or makes a false statement in order to get a false or fraudulent claim paid or approved by the government. Actions under the civil False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government. These provisions of the civil False Claims Act permit parties, such as our employees, to sue us on behalf of the government and share a portion of any recovery. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the government, each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenues.. 18. The adoption of new procurement laws or regulations could reduce the amount of services that are outsourced by the federal government and cause us to experience reduced revenues.. New legislation, procurement regulations, or labor organization pressure could cause federal agencies to adopt restrictive procurement practices regarding the use of outside service providers. The American Federation of Government Employees, the largest federal employee union, strongly endorses legislation that may restrict the procedure by which services are outsourced to government contractors. One such proposal, the Truthfulness, Responsibility, and Accountability in Contracting Act, would have effectively reduced the volume of services that is outsourced by the federal government by requiring agencies to give in-house government employees expanded opportunities to compete against contractors for work that could be outsourced. If such legislation, or similar legislation, were to be enacted, it would likely reduce the amount of IT services that could be outsourced by the federal government, which could materially reduce our revenues.. If the market for our information technology based managed mobility solutions does not grow as we expect, our business will be harmed.. The markets for our information technology solutions are changing due to technological advances and innovations, and it is not certain whether our services will keep up with our changing environment, achieve market acceptance and/or sustain high demand for our services. Some potential customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources into developing internal solutions for communications management, so they may not perceive the benefit of our external solution. If potential customers do not perceive the benefits of our products, services and solutions, then these markets may not continue to develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would reduce our revenue and profitability.. If we are unable to retain our existing customers, our revenue and results of operations would grow more slowly than expected or decline and our results of operations would be impaired.. We sell our information technology based services pursuant to agreements that are generally one to five years in duration. Many times they are in the form of a one year agreement with one to four year option periods. Our customers have no obligation to renew their agreements after their terms expire and some of our customers may terminate their agreements for convenience. These agreements may not be maintained or renewed on the same or on more profitable terms. As a result, our ability to both maintain and grow our revenue depends in part on customer renewals. We may not be able to accurately predict future trends in customer renewals, and our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products, services, and or solutions, the prices of our managed mobility solutions software products, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. In addition, customers that are acquired by companies using competing service offerings may be required to begin using those competing service offerings, rather than renew their license arrangements with us. If our customers do not renew their agreements for our communications management solutions software products, renew on less favorable terms, or do not purchase additional functionality, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline.. Our sales cycles can be long, unpredictable and require considerable time and expense, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate.. Our sales cycle, which is the time between initial contact with a potential customer and the ultimate sale, is often lengthy and unpredictable. Some of our potential customers may already have partial managed mobility solutions in place under fixed-term contracts, which may limit their ability to commit to purchase our solution in a timely fashion. In addition, our potential customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process that can last up to one year or more, and which requires us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them about the capabilities of our offerings and the potential cost savings they can bring to an organization. Furthermore, the purchase of our solution typically also requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customer’s organization, which further contributes to our lengthy sales cycle. As a result, we have limited ability to forecast the timing and size of specific sales. Any delay in completing, or failure to complete, sales in a particular quarter or year could harm our business and could cause our operating results to vary significantly.. 19. If a communications carrier prohibits customer disclosure of communications billing and usage data to us, the value of our solution to customers of that carrier would be impaired, which may limit our ability to compete for their business.. Certain of our information technology based solutions software functionality and services that we offer depend on our ability to access a customer’s communications billing and usage data. For example, our ability to offer outsourced or automated communications bill auditing, billing dispute resolution, bill payment, cost allocation and expense optimization depends on our ability to access this data. If a communications carrier were to prohibit its customers from disclosing this information to us, those enterprises would only be able to use these billing-related aspects of our solution on a self-serve basis, which would impair some of the value of our solution to those enterprises. This in turn could limit our ability to compete with the internally developed communications management solutions of those enterprises, require us to incur additional expenses to license access to that billing and usage data from the communications carrier, if such a license is made available to us at all, or put us at a competitive disadvantage against any third-party communications management solutions service provider that licenses access to that data.. Our long-term success in our industry depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our solutions to customers located outside of the United States, and thus our business is susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations.. We are currently seeking to expand the international sales and operations of our portfolio of solutions. This international expansion will subject us to new risks that we have not faced in the United States. These risks include:. §geographic localization of our software products, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements;. §lack of familiarity with and unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements;. §longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;. §difficulties in managing, staffing and overseeing international implementations and operations, including increased reliance on foreign subcontractors;. §challenges in integrating our software with multiple country-specific billing or communications support systems for international customers;. §challenges in providing procurement, help desk and fulfillment capabilities for our international customers;. §fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. §potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added or other tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;. §the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and legal standards;. §increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;. §potentially slower adoption rates of communications management solutions services internationally;. §political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and. §reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries.. 20. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability.. Expansion into international markets could require us to comply with additional billing, invoicing, communications, data privacy and similar regulations, which could make it costly or difficult to operate in these markets.. Many international regulatory agencies have adopted regulations related to where and how communications bills may be sent and how the data on such bills must be handled and protected. For instance, certain countries restrict communications bills from being sent outside of the country, either physically or electronically, while other countries require that certain information be encrypted or redacted before bills may be transmitted electronically. These regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and international expansion of our business could subject us to additional similar regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in significant monetary penalties and compliance with these regulations could require expenditure of significant financial and administrative resources.. In addition, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. Our failure to comply with applicable safe harbor, privacy laws and international security regulations or any security breakdown that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other customer data could result in fines or proceedings by governmental agencies or private individuals, which could harm our results of operations.. If we fail to effectively manage and develop our strategic relationships with our channel partners, or if those third parties choose not to market and sell our communications management solutions, our operating results would suffer.. The successful implementation of our strategic goals is dependent in part on strategic relationships with our channel partners to offer our solutions to a larger customer base than we can reach through our current direct sales and marketing efforts.. Our success depends in part on the ultimate success of our channel partners and their ability to effectively market and sell our solutions. Some of these third parties may have previously entered, and may in the future enter, into strategic relationships with our competitors. Further, many of our channel partners have multiple strategic relationships and they may not regard us as significant to their businesses. Our channel partners may terminate their respective relationships with us, pursue other partnerships or relationships, or attempt to develop or acquire products or services that compete with our communications management solutions. Our channel partners also may interfere with our ability to enter into other desirable strategic relationships.. Some of our strategic relationships are relatively new and, therefore, it is uncertain whether these third parties will be able to market and sell our solution successfully or provide the volume and quality of customers that we currently desire. If we are unable to manage and develop our strategic relationships, the growth of our customer base may be harmed and we may have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sales and marketing of our solution, which would increase our costs and decrease our earnings.. 21. The emergence of one or more widely used, standardized communications devices or billing or operational support systems could limit the value and operability of our solution and our ability to compete with the manufacturers of such devices or the carriers using such systems in providing telecommunications lifecycle management services.. Our solution derives its value in significant part from our communications management software’s ability to interface with and support the interoperation of diverse communications devices, billing systems and operational support systems. The emergence of a single or a small number of widely used communications devices, billing systems or operational support systems using consolidated, consistent sets of standardized interfaces for the interaction between communications service providers and their enterprise customers could significantly reduce the value of our solution to our customers and potential customers. Furthermore, any such communications device, billing system or operational support system could make use of proprietary software or technology standards that our software might not be able to support. In addition, the manufacturer of such device, or the carrier using such billing system or operational support system, might actively seek to limit the interoperability of such device, billing system or operational support system with our software products for competitive or other reasons. The resulting lack of compatibility of our software products would put us at a significant competitive disadvantage, or entirely prevent us from competing, in that segment of the potential market if such manufacturer or carrier, or its authorized licensees, were to develop one or more communications management solutions competitive with our solution.. A continued proliferation and diversification of communications technologies or devices could increase the costs of providing our software products or limit our ability to provide our software products to potential customers.. Our ability to provide our software products is dependent on the technological compatibility of our products with the communications infrastructures and devices of our customers and their communications service providers. The development and introduction of new communications technologies and devices requires us to expend significant personnel and financial resources to develop and maintain interoperability of our software products with these technologies and devices. Continued proliferation of communications products and services could significantly increase our research and development costs and increase the lag time between the initial release of new technologies and products and our ability to provide support for them in our software products, which would limit the potential market of customers that we have the ability to serve.. Actual or perceived breaches of our security measures, or governmental required disclosure of customer information could diminish demand for our solution and subject us to substantial liability.. In the processing of communications transactions, we receive, transmit and store a large volume of sensitive customer information, including call records, billing records, contractual terms, and financial and payment information, including credit card information, and we have entered into contractual obligations to maintain the confidentiality of certain of this information. Any person who circumvents our security measures could steal proprietary or confidential customer information or cause interruptions in our operations and any such lapse in security could expose us to litigation, substantial contractual liabilities, loss of customers or damage to our reputation or could otherwise harm our business. We incur significant costs to protect against security breaches and may incur significant additional costs to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. In addition, if we are required to disclose any of this sensitive customer information to governmental authorities, that disclosure could expose us to a risk of losing customers or could otherwise harm our business.. If customers believe that we may be subject to requirements to disclose sensitive customer information to governmental authorities, or that our systems and software products do not provide adequate security for the storage of confidential information or its transmission over the Internet or corporate extranets, or are otherwise inadequate for Internet or extranet use, our business will be harmed. Customers’ concerns about security could deter them from using the Internet to conduct transactions that involve confidential information, including transactions of the types included in our solution, so our failure to prevent security breaches, or the occurrence of well-publicized security breaches affecting the Internet in general, could significantly harm our business and financial results.. 22. Defects or errors in our software products and/or processes could harm our reputation, impair our ability to sell our products and result in significant costs to us.. A key part of our service delivery involves the use of internally developed software solutions. If our software solutions contain undetected defects or errors that affect our ability to process customer transactions, prepare reports and/or deliver our services in general it may result in a failure to perform in accordance with customer expectations and could result in monetary damages against us. Because our customers use our software products for important aspects of their businesses, any defects or errors in, or other performance problems with, our software products could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. If that occurs, we could be required to issue substantial service credits that reduce amounts invoiced to our customers, lose out on future sales or our existing customers could elect to not renew their customer agreements with us. Product performance problems could result in loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance and the diversion of development resources from software enhancements. If our software products fail to perform or contain a technical defect, a customer might assert a claim against us for damages. Whether or not we are responsible for our software’s failure or defect, we could be required to spend significant time and money in litigation, arbitration or other dispute resolution, and potentially pay significant settlements or damages.. We provide minimum service-level commitments to many of our customers, and our inability to meet those commitments could result in significant loss of customers, harm to our reputation and costs to us.. Many of our customer agreements currently, or may in the future, require that we meet minimum service level commitments regarding items such as platform availability, invoice processing speed and order processing speed. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments under these agreements many of our customers will have the right to terminate their agreements with us and we may be contractually obligated to provide our customers with credits or pay other penalties. If our software products are unavailable for significant periods of time we may lose a substantial number of our customers as a result of these contractual rights, we may suffer harm to our reputation and we may be required to provide our customers with significant credits or pay our customers significant contractual penalties, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations.. Risks Related To Our Common Stock. The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our common stock price and/or be dilutive to current stockholders.. If we or our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. Such stock issuances may be made at a price that reflects a discount from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise capital for acquisitions or other general corporate purposes, we would likely need to issue securities that are convertible into or exercisable for a significant number of shares of our common stock. These issuances would dilute our stockholders percentage ownership interest, which would have the effect of reducing our stockholders’ influence on matters on which our stockholders vote, and might dilute the book value of our common stock. There is no assurance that we will not seek to sell additional shares of our common stock in order to meet our working capital or other needs in a transaction that would be dilutive to current stockholders.. 23. Our common stock price has been volatile.. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of the securities of companies in our industry have been especially volatile. Broad market fluctuations of this type may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to be subject to volatility due to a variety of factors, including:. §public announcements concerning us, our competitors or our industry;. §fluctuations in operating results;. §additional financings or capital raises;. §introductions of new products or services by us or our competitors;. §changes in analysts’ earnings estimates;. §the failure the meet the expectations of analysts;. §announcements of technological innovations;. §additional sales of our common stock or other securities;. §our inability to achieve and sustain profitability; or. §our inability to gain market acceptance of our products and services.. In the past, some companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation. If we were the object of securities class action litigation, we could incur substantial costs and experience a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and such securities class action litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A third party could be prevented from acquiring shares of our common stock at a premium to the market price because of our anti-takeover provisions.. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to you and our other stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware. Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with any interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A “business combination” includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Subject to certain exceptions, an “interested stockholder” is (i) a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of our voting stock or (ii) an affiliate or associate of ours who was the owner, together with affiliates and associates, of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock at any time within the 3-year period prior to the date for determining whether such person is “interested.”. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders at an annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders may be taken without such meeting only by the unanimous consent of all stockholders entitled to vote on the particular action. In order for any matter to be considered properly brought before a meeting, a stockholder must comply with certain requirements regarding advance notice to us. The foregoing provisions could have the effect of delaying until the next stockholders’ meeting stockholder actions, which are favored by the holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities. These provisions may also discourage another person or entity from making a tender offer for our common stock, because such person or entity, even if it acquired a majority of our outstanding voting securities, would be able to take action as a stockholder (such as electing new directors or approving a merger) only at a duly called stockholders’ meeting, and not by written consent.. 24. The General Corporation Law of Delaware provides generally that the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares entitled to vote on any matter is required to amend a corporation’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws, unless a corporation’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws, as the case may be, requires a greater percentage. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not require a greater percentage vote. Our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors, with approximately one-third of the directors serving in each such class of directors and with one class of directors being elected at each annual meeting of stockholders to serve for a term of three years or until their successors are elected and take office. Our bylaws provide that the board of directors will determine the number of directors to serve on the board. Our board of directors presently consists of seven members.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain provisions permitted under the General Corporation Law of Delaware relating to the liability of directors. The provisions eliminate, to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware, a director’s personal liability to us or our stockholders with respect to any act or omission in the performance of his or her duties as a director. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also allow us to indemnify our directors, to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware. Our bylaws also provide that we may grant indemnification to any officer, employee, agent or other individual as our Board may approve from time to time. We believe that these provisions will assist us in attracting and retaining qualified individuals to serve as directors.. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock."
