[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS. The material risks and uncertainties that we believe affect our business are described below. These risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on, or risks currently deemed immaterial, may also impair business operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the risks and uncertainties described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. We face a wide range of competition, which could negatively affect our business and financial results.. Our industry is, and will continue to be, highly competitive. Some of our principal residential services competitors, including other cable and local telephone companies, offer services that provide features and functions comparable to the residential high-speed data, video, and/or telephony that we offer, and these competitors offer these services in bundles similar to ours. In most of our markets, cable competitors have invested in their networks and are able to offer a product suite which is comparable to ours. In addition, in some of our operating areas, AT&T, Verizon or other incumbent telephone providers have upgraded their networks to carry two-way video, high- speed data with substantial bandwidth and IP-based telephony services, which they market and sell in bundles, in some cases, along with their wireless services. These telephone incumbents may also offer satellite video as a part of their bundle, either in partnership with a satellite provider or directly as is the case with AT&T/Direct TV. Consequently, there are more than two providers of \"triple-play\" services in some of our markets.. In addition, each of our residential services faces competition from other companies that provide residential services on a stand-alone basis. Our residential video service faces competition from other cable and direct broadcast satellite providers that seek to distinguish their services from ours by offering aggressive promotional pricing, exclusive programming, and/or assertions of superior service or offerings. Increasingly, our residential video service also faces competition from companies that deliver content to consumers over the Internet and on mobile devices, some without charging a fee for access to the content. This trend could negatively impact customer demand for our residential video service, especially premium channels and VOD services, and could encourage content owners to seek higher license fees from us in order to subsidize their free distribution of content. Our residential high-speed data and telephony services also face competition from wireless Internet and voice providers, and our residential voice service faces competition from other cable providers, \"over-the-top\" (\"OTT\") phone service and other communication alternatives, including texting, social networking and email. In recent years, a trend known as \"wireless substitution\" has developed whereby certain customers have chosen to utilize a wireless telephone service as their sole phone provider. We expect this trend to continue in the future.. We also compete across each of our commercial high-speed data, networking and telephony services with ILECs, CLECs and other cable companies.. Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in competition could have an adverse effect on our financial results and return on capital expenditures due to possible increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or cause a decline in our growth rates and could reduce our revenue. As we expand and introduce new and enhanced services, we may be subject to competition from other providers of those services. We cannot predict the extent to which this competition will affect our future business and financial results or return on capital expenditures.. 24. Table of Contents. In addition, future advances in technology, as well as changes in the marketplace, in the economy and in the regulatory and legislative environments, may also result in changes to the competitive landscape.. Many of our competitors are larger than we are and possess greater resources than we do.. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has become more so in recent years. In some instances, we compete against companies with fewer regulatory burdens, better access to financing, greater personnel resources, greater resources for marketing, greater brand name recognition, and long-established relationships with regulatory authorities and customers. Increasing consolidation in the cable industry and the repeal of certain ownership rules have provided additional benefits to certain of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources or efficiencies of scale.. In providing video service, we currently compete with Charter, Comcast, Frontier, Mediacom, AT&T and Verizon. We also compete with satellite television providers, including AT&T's DirecTV and Dish Networks. Satellite television providers typically offer local broadcast television stations, which further reduces our current advantage over satellite television providers and our ability to attract and maintain customers.. In providing local and long-distance telephone services and data services, we compete with the incumbent local phone company in each of our markets as well as other cable providers in our markets. AT&T, CenturyLink, Frontier and Verizon are the primary ILECs in our targeted regions. They offer both local and long-distance services in our markets and are particularly strong competitors. We seek to attract customers away from other telephone companies and cable television service operators offering telephone services with Internet-based telephony. Cable operators offering voice services and data services in our markets increase competition for our bundled services.. We face risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology.. Our business is subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. Our business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery. Technological advancements, such as new video formats and Internet streaming and downloading, many of which have been beneficial to our business, have nonetheless increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers and have intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. Increasingly, content owners are delivering their content directly to consumers over the Internet, often without charging any fee for access to the content. Furthermore, due to consumer electronics innovations, consumers are more readily able to watch such Internet-delivered content on television sets and mobile devices, which could lead to additional \"cord-cutting\". Although the increase of delivery content through the Internet could be beneficial to demand for our HSD products, the increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for our other products and services, but also advertisers' willingness to purchase advertising from us. If we do not respond appropriately to the increasing leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, our competitive position could deteriorate, which could adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition or results of operations.. A prolonged economic downturn, especially any downturn in the housing market, may negatively impact our ability to attract new subscribers and generate increased revenues.. We are exposed to risks associated with prevailing economic conditions, which could adversely impact demand for our products and services and have a negative impact on our financial results. In. 25. Table of Contents. addition, the global financial markets have displayed uncertainty, and at times the equity and credit markets have experienced unexpected volatility, which could cause economic conditions to worsen. A continuation or further weakening of these economic conditions could lead to reductions in consumer demand for our services, especially premium video services and enhanced features, such as DVRs, and a continued increase in the number of homes that replace their wireline telephone service with wireless service or OTT phone service and their video service with Internet-delivered and/or over-air content, which would negatively impact our ability to attract customers, maintain or increase rates and maintain or increase revenue. The expanded availability of free or lower cost competitive services, such as video streaming over the Internet, or substitute services, such as wireless phones, may further reduce consumer demand for our services during periods of weak economic conditions. In addition, providing video services is an established and highly penetrated business. Our ability to gain new video subscribers is partially dependent on growth in occupied housing in our service areas, which is influenced by both national and local economic conditions. If the number of occupied homes in our operating areas declines and/or the number of home foreclosures significantly increases, we may be unable to maintain or increase the number of our video subscribers.. Our future growth is partially dependent upon our edge-out strategy, which may or may not be successful.. We are strategically focused on driving growth by constructing additional cable networks in order to sell our products and services within communities (generally near or adjacent to our cable network) which we do not currently serve. Generally, residents and enterprises within these communities can already purchase a bundled triple-play offering from other providers, or purchase high-speed data, video and telephony services from other operators on an à la carte basis. Therefore, we are expanding into competitive environments. This effort requires considerable financial and management resources, including reducing the near-term cash generation profile of our business. Additionally, we must obtain pole attachment agreements, franchises, construction permits, telephone numbers and other regulatory approvals to commence operations in these communities. Delays in entering into pole attachment agreements, receiving the necessary franchises and construction permits and conducting the construction itself have adversely affected our scheduled construction plans in the past and could do so again in the future. Difficulty in obtaining necessary resources may also adversely affect our ability to expand into new markets. We may face resistance from competitors who are already in markets we wish to enter. If our expectations regarding our ability to attract customers in these communities are not met, the capital requirements to complete the network investment or the time required to attract our expected level of customers are incorrect, our financial performance may be negatively impacted.. The demand for our bundled broadband communications services may be lower than we expect.. The demand for high-speed data, video and telephony services, either alone or as part of a bundle, cannot readily be determined. Our business could be adversely affected if demand for bundled broadband communications services is materially lower than we expect. Our ability to generate revenue will suffer if the markets for the services we offer, including telephony and high-speed data services, fail to develop, grow more slowly than anticipated or become saturated with competitors.. Our future growth is partially dependent upon a business services strategy, which may or may not be successful.. One of the elements of our growth strategy is to execute upon a meaningful expansion in the business services market. To accommodate this growth, we may commit significant capital investments on technology, equipment and personnel focused on our business services. If we are unable to sufficiently build the necessary infrastructure and internal support functions to scale and expand our customer base, the potential growth of business services would be limited. In many cases, business services customers have service level agreements that require us to provide higher standards of service. 26. Table of Contents. and reliability that may prove difficult to meet. In addition, there is significant competition in business services including significantly larger and better capitalized competitors with greater geographic reach. We may not be able to successfully compete with these competitors or be able to make the operational or financial investments necessary to successfully serve the targeted customer base.. Our business is characterized by rapid technological change, and if we do not respond appropriately to technological changes, our competitive position may be harmed.. We operate in a highly competitive, consumer-driven, rapidly changing environment and our success is, to a large extent, dependent on our ability to acquire, develop, adopt and exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish our services from those of our competitors. We have invested in advanced technology platforms that support advanced communications services and multiple emerging interactive services, such as VOD, DVR, interactive television, IP Centrex services and pure fiber network services. If we choose technologies or equipment that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to our customers than those chosen by our competitors, or if we offer services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or that do not function as expected, our competitive position could deteriorate, and our business and financial results could suffer. In addition, we may be required to select one technology over another and may not choose the technology that is the most economic, efficient or attractive to customers. We may also encounter difficulties in implementing new technologies, products and services and may encounter disruptions in service as a result.. The ability of our competitors to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products and services more quickly than us may adversely affect our competitive position. Furthermore, advances in technology, decreases in the cost of existing technologies or changes in competitors' product and service offerings also may require us to make additional future research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge, or at a lower price, certain products and services that we currently offer to customers separately or at a premium. In addition, the uncertainty of the costs for obtaining intellectual property rights from third parties could impact our ability to respond to technological advances in a timely manner.. Increases in programming and retransmission costs or the inability to obtain popular programming could adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition or results of operations.. Programming has, been and is expected to continue to be, our largest single operating expense. In recent years, the cable industry has experienced rapid increases in the cost of cable programming, retransmission consent charges for local commercial television broadcast stations and regional sports programming. We expect these trends to continue. As compared to large national providers, our relatively modest base of subscribers limits our ability to negotiate lower programming costs. In addition, as we increase the channel capacity of our systems and add programming to our expanded basic and digital programming tiers, we may face additional market constraints on our ability to pass programming cost increases on to our customers. Furthermore, content providers may be unwilling to enter into distribution arrangements on acceptable terms and owners of non-broadcast video programming content may enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with our competitors. Any inability to pass programming cost increases on to our customers would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and a failure to carry programming that is attractive to our subscribers could adversely impact subscription and advertising revenues.. A decline in advertising revenues or changes in advertising markets could negatively impact our businesses.. A decline in advertising revenues could negatively impact our results of operations. Declines can be caused by the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, by increased competition for the leisure time of audiences, by audience fragmentation, by the growing use of new technologies or by. 27. Table of Contents. the economy in general, any of which may cause advertisers to alter their spending priorities based on these or other factors. Further, natural disasters, wars, acts of terrorism, or other significant adverse events could lead to a reduction in advertising revenues as a result of general economic uncertainty.. Changes in broadcast carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on us.. Federal \"must carry\" rules require us to carry some local broadcast television signals on our cable systems that we might not otherwise carry. If the FCC seeks to revise or expand the \"must carry\" rules, for example by requiring carriage of multicast signals, we would be forced to carry video programming that we would not otherwise carry, potentially drop more popular programming in order to free capacity for the required programming, decrease our ability to manage our bandwidth efficiently and/or increase our costs, which could make us less competitive. As a result, cable operators, including us, could be placed at a disadvantage versus other multichannel video providers. Potential federal legislation regarding programming packaging, bundling or à la carte delivery of programming could fundamentally change the way in which we package and price our services. We cannot predict the outcome of any current or future FCC proceedings or legislation in this area, or the impact of such proceedings on our business at this time.. Programming exclusivity in favor of our competitors could adversely affect the demand for our video services.. We obtain our programming by entering into contracts or arrangements with programming suppliers. Federal rules restrict cable operators and other multichannel video programming distributors from entering into certain exclusive programming arrangements. A programming supplier, however, could enter into an exclusive arrangement, consistent with these rules, with one of our video competitors that could create a competitive advantage for that competitor by restricting our access to this programming. If our ability to offer popular programming on our cable television systems is restricted by exclusive arrangements between our competitors and programming suppliers, the demand for our video services may be adversely affected and our cost to obtain programming may increase.. We may not be able to obtain necessary hardware, software and operational support.. We depend on third-party suppliers and licensors to supply some of the hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide our services. Some of these vendors represent our sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity. If demand exceeds these vendors' capacity, they experience operating or financial difficulties, they significantly increase the amount we pay for necessary products or services, or they cease production of any necessary product due to lack of demand, our ability to provide some services may be materially adversely affected. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract subscribers, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, financial condition or results of operations.. Loss of interconnection arrangements could impair our telephone service.. We rely on other companies to connect the calls made by our local telephone customers to the customers of other local telephone providers. These calls are completed because our network is interconnected with the networks of other telecommunications carriers. These interconnection arrangements are mandated by the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Communications Act\"), and the FCC's implementing regulations. It is generally expected that the Communications Act will continue to undergo considerable interpretation and modification, including the FCC's potential forbearance from continuing to enforce carriers' statutory and regulatory interconnection obligations, which could have a negative impact on our interconnection agreements. It is also possible that further amendments to the Communications Act may be enacted, which could have a negative impact on our interconnection agreements. The contractual arrangements for interconnection and access to unbundled. 28. Table of Contents. network elements with incumbent carriers generally contain provisions for incorporation of changes in governing law. Thus, future FCC, state PSC and/or court decisions may negatively impact the rates, terms and conditions of the interconnection services that we have obtained and may seek to obtain under these agreements, which could adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to compete successfully in the provision of services will depend on the nature and timing of any such legislative changes, regulations and interpretations and whether they are favorable to us or to our competitors.. We receive support from various funds established under federal and state law and the continued receipt of that support is not assured.. We receive payments from various federal or state universal service support programs. These include interstate common line support and Lifeline and Schools and Libraries programs within the Federal USF program, as well as similar state universal support programs. The total cost of all of the various USF programs has increased greatly in recent years, putting pressure on regulators to reform those programs, and to limit both eligibility and support flows. In addition, we receive traffic termination payments from other carriers based upon rates established by various regulatory bodies. These rates may be subject to meaningful reductions due to ongoing rate reform efforts being led by the FCC. Our ability to receive state support program funds is also subject to the determination of certain PSCs. Adverse decisions by those PSCs may reduce our ability to access those funds.. In November 2011, the FCC adopted an order reforming core parts of the USF and that also broadly recast the existing intercarrier compensation (\"ICC\") scheme. The order, which became effective December 29, 2011, established the Connect America Fund (\"CAF\") to replace support revenues provided by the current USF and redirected support from voice services to broadband services. The order also broadly altered the manner in which affected companies will have to operate their businesses.. In March 2016, the FCC released its Report and Order (\"Order\") regarding universal service support program reform for rate-of-return incumbent local exchange carriers. The Order focuses on broadband, including stand-alone broadband, and seeks to direct federal support to areas lacking broadband. It also reforms legacy support mechanisms to ensure that carriers have the incentives and support to continue investing in robust broadband networks. Rate-of-return incumbent local exchange carriers can choose from two paths for USF support: 1) a model-based option (A-CAM); and 2) a broadband loop support mechanism that will provide support for stand-alone broadband and replace interstate common line support (legacy support). In November 2016, the FCC released a Public Notice announcing that 216 rate-of-return companies elected the A-CAM Cost Model, which exceeded the available A-CAM budget by more than $160 million annually. To contend with the oversubscription, the FCC intends to take \"other measures that may be necessary\" in order to prioritize among electing carriers or modify A-CAM parameters. While our affected subsidiaries did not choose the A-CAM option, we cannot anticipate what changes may come to the A-CAM model and if those changes might impact those carriers like us that have chosen the legacy support path.. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers, vendors and third parties could adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to risks associated with a potential general economic downturn and how such a development could impact our customers. Dramatic declines in the housing market in recent years, including falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, have affected consumer confidence and may cause increased delinquencies in payment or cancellations of services by our customers, or lead to unfavorable changes in the mix of products our customers purchase. The general economic downturn also may affect advertising sales as companies seek to reduce expenditures and conserve cash. Any of these events may adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition or results of operations.. 29. Table of Contents. In addition, we are susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide products and services, or to which we delegate certain functions. A general economic downturn, as well as volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, also could adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in output or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely. Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by third parties could adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition or results of operations.. Historically, we have made several acquisitions, and we may make more acquisitions in the future as part of our growth strategy. Future acquisitions or joint ventures could strain our business and resources. In addition, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisitions.. If we acquire existing companies or networks or enter into joint ventures, we may:. <U+0095> miscalculate the value of the acquired company or joint venture;    <U+0095> divert resources and management time;    <U+0095> experience difficulties in integrating the acquired business or joint venture with our operations;    <U+0095> experience relationship issues, such as with customers, employees and suppliers as a result of changes in management;     <U+0095> incur additional liabilities or obligations as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; and    <U+0095> assume additional financial burdens in connection with the transaction.. Additionally, ongoing consolidation in our industry may reduce the number of attractive acquisition targets. Our failure to successfully identify and consummate acquisitions or to manage and integrate the acquisitions we make could adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition or results of operation.. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of regulations or legislation.. Our video and telephony services are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state and local levels. In addition, the federal government has extended regulation to high-speed data services. We are also subject to regulation of our video services relating to rates, equipment, technologies, programming, levels and types of services, taxes and other charges. The current telecommunications and cable legislation and regulations are complex and in many areas set forth policy objectives to be implemented by regulation at the federal, state and local levels. It is generally expected that the Communications Act and implementing regulations and decisions, as well as applicable state laws and regulations, will continue to undergo considerable interpretation and modification. From time to time, federal legislation, FCC and PSC decisions, and court decisions interpreting legislation, FCC or PSC decisions, are made that can affect our business. We cannot predict the timing or the future financial impact of legislation or administrative decisions. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on the nature and timing of any such legislative changes, regulations or interpretations, and whether they are favorable to us or to our competitors.. Compliance with, and changes to, environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could result in significant costs or adversely affect us.. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental, safety and health laws and regulations., including those governing such matters as the generation, storage, reporting, treating, handling, remediation, use, disposal and transportation of, and exposure to, hazardous materials, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the atmosphere, the emission of electromagnetic radiation, the protection of wetlands, historic sites and threatened and endangered species, and health. 30. Table of Contents. and safety. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations can result in, among other things, imposition of civil or criminal penalties or fines or suspension or cessation of our operations. Such laws and regulations are becoming increasingly more stringent and there can be no assurances that we will not incur significant costs to comply with, or liabilities under, such laws and regulations. Some of our sites have battery and diesel fuel operated powered backup generators or sources. Or may have potential contamination risks from historical or surrounding activities. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we may be liable for the costs of remediating contamination, regardless of fault, and these costs could be significant.. \"Net neutrality\" legislation or regulation could limit our ability to operate our high-speed data service business profitably and to manage our broadband facilities efficiently.. On December 21, 2010, the FCC adopted new rules imposing \"net neutrality\" obligations on broadband Internet access providers. The new rules, which became effective on November 20, 2011, were based on the principles of (i) transparency, (ii) no blocking and (iii) no unreasonable discrimination, and are applicable to fixed and wireless broadband Internet access providers to different extents. Under the new rules, fixed and wireless broadband Internet access providers were required to make their practices transparent to both consumers and providers of Internet content, services, applications and devices on both their website and at the point-of-sale. In addition, subject to \"reasonable network management,\" fixed broadband Internet access providers were prohibited from blocking lawful content, applications, services and non-harmful devices, and from engaging in unreasonable discrimination in transmitting lawful traffic. Verizon and other parties filed for additional FCC review, and filed an appeal challenging the FCC's authority to issue such rules, which was heard by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. On January 14, 2014, a D.C. Circuit panel struck down the portions of the FCC's 2010 rules that banned blocking or discriminatory treatment of websites or other online applications by retail broadband Internet access providers such as incumbent telephone companies and cable operators. At the same time, the court approved the agency's requirement that broadband providers adequately disclose their policies regarding blocking and \"network management\" (that is, practices for avoiding network congestion, giving priority to some classes of traffic over others, etc.).. On February 26, 2015, the FCC announced that it reclassified broadband Internet access as a telecommunications service under Title II of the Communications Act (the \"Open Internet Order\"). The FCC announced that its Open Internet Order prohibits: (i) broadband providers from blocking access to legal content, applications, services, or non-harmful devices; (ii) broadband providers from impairing or degrading lawful Internet traffic on the basis of content, applications, services, or non-harmful devices; and (iii) broadband providers from favoring some lawful Internet traffic over other lawful traffic in exchange for consideration of any kind - in other words, no \"fast lanes.\" This rule also bans ISPs such as us from prioritizing content and services of their affiliates. The FCC further announced that its Open Internet Order will require additional disclosure and network management practices and will extend a number of the Title II regulatory requirements to broadband Internet access services, such as compliance with the privacy provisions of Section 222 of the Communications Act.. The legality of the Open Internet Order was challenged in court by a number of parties. On June 14, 2016, the D.C. Circuit upheld the Open Internet Order.. The composition of the FCC changed in January 2017. On December 14, 2017, the Commission adopted the Restoring Internet Freedom Declaratory Ruling, Report and Order (the \"Internet Freedom Order\"), which, when effective, would repeal the Open Internet Order and reclassify broadband Internet access as an information service, not subject to Title II of the Communications Act. The December 14, 2017 Internet Freedom Order is not yet effective and may be subject to further legislative change and court challenges.. 31. Table of Contents. It is unknown at this time if the Internet Freedom Order will be implemented, modified or repealed, and so we do not know if and how the new rules as finally adopted and implemented may affect our business.. Regulation may limit our ability to make required investments or adopt business models that are needed to continue to provide robust high-speed data service.. The rising popularity of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services increases the demand for, and usage of, our high-speed data service. Examples of such services include the delivery of video via streaming technology and by download, peer-to-peer file sharing services and gaming services. We need flexibility to develop pricing and business models that will allow us to respond to changing consumer uses and demands and, if necessary, to invest more capital than currently expected to increase the bandwidth capacity of our systems. Our ability to do so could be restricted by legislative or regulatory efforts associated with \"net neutrality\" requirements.. Offering telephony service may subject us to additional regulatory burdens, causing us to incur additional costs.. We offer telephony services over our broadband network and continue to develop and deploy VoIP services. The FCC has ruled that competitive telephone companies that support VoIP services, such as those we offer our customers, are entitled to interconnect with incumbent providers of traditional telecommunications services, which ensure that our VoIP services can compete in the telephony market. The FCC has also declared that certain VoIP services are not subject to traditional state public utility regulation. The full extent of the FCC preemption of state and local regulation of VoIP services is not yet clear. Expanding our offering of these services may require us to obtain certain additional authorizations. We may not be able to obtain such authorizations in a timely manner, or conditions could be imposed upon such licenses or authorizations that may not be favorable to us. Telecommunications companies generally are subject to other significant regulation which could also be extended to VoIP providers. If additional telecommunications regulations are applied to our VoIP service, it could cause us to incur additional costs. The FCC has already extended certain traditional telecommunications carrier requirements, such as 911 emergency calling, USF collection, Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, privacy, customer proprietary information, number porting, disability and discontinuance of service requirements to many VoIP providers such as us.. Rate regulation could materially adversely impact our operations, business, financial results or financial condition.. Under current FCC rules, rates for basic service tier (\"BST\") video service and associated equipment may be regulated where there is no effective competition. Under current FCC rules, cable operators are presumed to be subject to effective competition. In all of the communities we serve, we are not subject to BST video rate regulation, either because the local franchising authority has not asked the FCC for permission to regulate rates due to the lack of effective competition or because of the presumed presence of effective competition. Except for telephony services provided by our operating companies that are ILECs (which are subject to certain rate regulations), there is currently no rate regulation for our other services, including high-speed data and non-ILEC telephony services. It is possible, however, that the FCC or Congress will adopt more extensive rate regulation for our video services or regulate the rates of other services, such as high-speed data, business data (or special access) services and telephony services, which could impede our ability to raise rates, or require rate reductions, and therefore could adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition or results of operation.. 32. Table of Contents. We operate our network under franchises that are subject to non-renewal or termination.. Our network generally operates pursuant to franchises, permits or licenses typically granted by a municipality or state agency with the authority to grant franchises. Additionally, other state or local governmental entities may exercise control over the use of public rights-of-way. Often, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material terms of the franchise agreement or the local franchise authority's regulations. Although none of our existing franchise or license agreements have been terminated, and we have received no threat of such a termination, one or more local authorities may attempt to take such action. We may not prevail in any judicial or regulatory proceeding to resolve such a dispute.. Further, franchises generally have fixed terms and must be renewed periodically. Local franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if they consider either past performance or the prospective operating proposal to be inadequate. In a number of jurisdictions, local authorities have attempted to impose rights-of-way fees on providers that have been challenged as violating federal law. A number of FCC and judicial decisions have addressed the issues posed by the imposition of rights-of-way fees on CLECs and on video distributors. To date, the state of the law is uncertain and may remain so for some time. We may become subject to future obligations to pay local rights-of-way fees that are excessive or discriminatory.. The local franchising authorities can grant franchises to competitors who may build networks in our market areas. Recent FCC decisions facilitate competitive video entry by limiting the actions that local franchising authorities may take when reviewing applications by new competitors and lessen some of the burdens that can be imposed upon incumbent cable operators with which we ourselves compete. Local franchise authorities have the ability to impose regulatory constraints or requirements on our business, including those that could materially increase our expenses. In the past, local franchise authorities have imposed regulatory constraints on the construction of our network either by local ordinance or as part of the process of granting or renewing a franchise. They have also imposed requirements on the level of customer service that we provide, as well as other requirements. The local franchise authorities in our markets may also impose regulatory constraints or requirements that may be found to be consistent with applicable law, but which could increase the cost of operating our business.. Our business may be adversely affected by the application of certain regulatory obligations governing the intellectual property rights of third parties or if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends.. We rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses that are proprietary to our business, as well as our key vendors, along with other agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in our operations. However, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm. Claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties under applicable agreements, laws and regulations (including the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998) could require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require us to change our business practices or offerings and limit our ability to compete effectively. Even claims without merit can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change, we rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all.. 33. Table of Contents. If our trade names are not adequately protected, then we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets and our business may be adversely affected.. We do not own, either legally or beneficially, any trademarks, service marks or trade names in connection with the operation of our business. We cannot assure you that we can obtain all necessary trademarks to adequately protect our intellectual property. It is possible that a third party could bring suit against us claiming infringement of registered trademarks, and if it did so and if there were a court determination against us, we might then be obligated to pay monetary damages, enter into a license agreement, or cease use of any such marks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We may encounter substantially increased pole attachment costs.. Under federal law, we have the right to attach cables carrying video and other services to telephone and similar poles of privately-owned utilities at regulated rates. However, because these cables may carry services other than video services, such as high-speed data services or new forms of telephony services, some utility pole owners have sought to impose additional fees for pole attachment. If these rates were to increase significantly or unexpectedly, it would cause our network to be more expensive to operate. It could also place us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to video and telecommunications service providers who do not require or who are less dependent upon pole attachments, such as satellite providers and wireless telephony service providers.. On June 8, 2011, the FCC enacted revised pole attachment rules to improve the efficiency and reduce the costs of deploying telecommunications, cable and broadband networks in order to accelerate broadband deployment. The formula for calculating the telecommunications attachment rate was revised, lowering the rate and bringing it in-line to the video rate. Many utilities seek to impose the telecommunications rate on us when they carry our services, other than video services, over their attachments. The order is being challenged before the FCC and federal courts. In November 2015, the FCC released another order taking further steps to balance the rates paid by cable operators and telecommunications carriers. Part of the order addressed some industry members' concerns that pole attachment rates might increase sharply now that the FCC has reclassified broadband service as a telecommunications service as discussed further above. Moreover, the appropriate method for calculating pole attachment rates for cable operators that provide VoIP services remains unclear, and an August 2009 petition from a coalition of electric utility companies asking the FCC to declare that the pole attachment rate for cable companies' digital telephone service should be assessed at the telecommunications service rate is still pending.. Some states in which we operate have assumed jurisdiction over the regulation of pole attachment rates, and so the federal regulations and the protections provided in those regulations may not apply in those states. In addition, some of the poles we use are exempt from federal regulation because they are owned by utility cooperatives and/or municipal entities or are otherwise exempt from the pole attachment regulations.. Subject to applicable pole attachment access and rate regulations, the entities that own the poles that we attach to and conduits that we access may not renew our existing agreements when they expire, and they may require us to pay substantially increased fees. Some of these pole and conduit owners have recently imposed or are currently seeking to impose substantial rate increases. Any increase in our pole attachment or conduit access rates or inability to secure continued pole attachment and access agreements on commercially reasonable terms could adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition or results of operation.. 34. Table of Contents. Our business is subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection. Existing laws and regulations are evolving and subject to uncertain interpretation, and new laws and regulations affecting our business have been proposed. These laws and regulations could result in legal claims, changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations, or could otherwise impact our business.. As a provider of high-speed data, video and telephony services, we are subject to an array of privacy-related laws and regulations that are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. In the course of providing service, we collect certain information about our subscribers and their use of our services. Our collection and use of personally identifiable information about our subscribers is subject to a variety of federal and state privacy requirements, including those imposed specifically on cable operators by Section 631 of the Communications Act. That section generally restricts the nonconsensual collection and disclosure to third parties of cable customers' personally identifiable information by cable operators, subject to certain specified exceptions. Several states and numerous local jurisdictions have enacted privacy laws or franchise privacy provisions that apply to cable services.. Section 222 of the Communications Act also governs our use of customer proprietary information (including, but not limited to, CPNI and personally identifiable information) related to our telecommunications and broadband services. In addition, FCC regulations apply to our use, disclosure, and protection of CPNI associated with our voice telephone service. As we continue to provide interactive and other advanced services, additional privacy considerations may arise. Privacy continues to be a major focus of Congress, the Federal Trade Commission, the FCC, the U.S. Department of Commerce, and the states. Additional laws, regulations, or advisory guidelines could affect our ability to use and share customer information under various additional circumstances.. We are also subject to state and federal regulations and laws regarding information security. Most of these regulations and laws apply to customer information that could be used to commit identity theft. Nearly all U.S. states and the District of Columbia have enacted security breach notification laws. These laws generally require that we give notice to customers whose financial account information has been disclosed because of a security breach. Congress is considering legislation to enact security breach notification requirements at the federal level, which may preempt or supplement these state laws and impose additional restrictions on us. The Communications Act and FCC rules also impose breach notification and information security requirements, which may require that we give notice to customers of breaches in some circumstances where notice would not be required by state law. Our efforts to protect customer information may be unsuccessful due to the actions of third parties, technical malfunctions, employee error, employee malfeasance or other factors. If any of these events occur, our customers' information could be used, accessed or disclosed improperly.. Claims resulting from actual or purported violations of these or other federal or state privacy laws could impact our business. For example, litigation related to our now-discontinued use of the NebuAd online advertising service was filed in federal court. Although that litigation was dismissed, adverse rulings in privacy-related litigation or regulatory proceedings could cause us to incur significant expense and liability or result in orders or consent decrees forcing us to modify our business practices. Moreover, any actual or purported incidents involving unauthorized access to or improper use of the information of our customers could damage our reputation and our brand and diminish our competitive position.. A phase-out of the compulsory copyright license for broadcast programming could adversely affect our ability to carry the programming transmitted by broadcast stations or could increase our programming costs.. In exchange for filing reports and contributing a percentage of revenue to a federal copyright royalty pool, we obtain a compulsory copyright license allowing us to retransmit copyrighted material. 35. Table of Contents. contained in broadcast television signals. The U.S. Copyright Office, the U.S. Government Accountability Office and the FCC all issued reports to Congress in 2011 that generally supported an eventual phase-out of the compulsory licenses. Such a change, if made, could adversely affect the ability of our cable television systems to obtain programming carried by broadcast television stations, and could increase the cost of such programming.. Regulation of the set-top box market could materially and adversely impact our operations and impose additional costs on us.. The FCC has adopted regulations to permit consumers to connect televisions and other consumer electronics equipment through a separate security device directly to digital cable television systems to enable receipt of one-way digital programming without requiring a set-top box. Additional FCC regulations promote the manufacture of plug-and-play TV sets and other equipment that can connect directly to a cable system through these separate security devices. Cable operators must provide a credit to customers who use this plug-and-play equipment and allow them to self-install independent security devices rather than having to arrange for professional installation. Additionally, the FCC is considering further action to promote a retail market for cable service navigation devices, including requirements to facilitate access to non-cable multichannel video provider systems and Internet video distributors, which may entail further mandates in connection with the support and deployment of set-top boxes. Although we generally require less up-front capital when our customers buy and self-install their own set-top box, these proposals could impose substantial costs on us and impair our ability to innovate.. Since our business is concentrated in specific geographic locations, our business could be adversely impacted by a depressed economy and natural disasters in these areas.. We provide our services to areas in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Michigan, Ohio, South Carolina and Tennessee, which are in the southeastern and Midwestern regions of the United States. A stagnant or depressed economy in the United States, and the southeastern or Midwestern United States in particular, could affect all of our markets and could adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our communications services. Our network is attached to poles and other structures in many of our service areas, and our ability to provide service depends on the availability of electric power. A tornado, hurricane, flood, mudslide, earthquake or other natural catastrophe in one of these areas could damage our network, interrupt our service and harm our business in the affected area. In addition, many of our markets are close together, and a single natural catastrophe could damage our network in more than one market.. We rely on network and information systems and other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, \"cyber-attacks,\" misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt our business.. Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to our operating activities, network or information system, shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, \"cyber-attacks,\" denial of service attacks and other malicious activity pose increasing risks. Our network and information systems are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, terrorist attacks and other similar events which could have an adverse impact on us and our customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to our network, equipment, data and reputation. The occurrence of such an event also could result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them. 36. Table of Contents. from similar events in the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction or a loss of customers or revenues.. Furthermore, our operating activities could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data. We could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage the reputation and credibility of our business and have a negative impact on our revenue. We also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection, privacy and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like ours that handle a large amount of personal customer data.. We depend on the services of key personnel to implement our strategy. Changes in key personnel or loss of services of key personnel may affect our ability to implement our strategy or otherwise adversely affect our operations.. The loss of members of our key management and certain other members of our operating personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to manage our anticipated growth depends on our ability to identify, hire and retain additional qualified management personnel. While we are able to offer competitive compensation to prospective employees, we may still be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining personnel.. In addition, we regularly evaluate our senior management capabilities in light of, among other things, our business strategy, and changes to our capital structure in connection with the acquisition, developments in our industry and markets and our ongoing financial performance. Accordingly, we may consider, where appropriate, supplementing, changing or otherwise enhancing our senior management team and operational and financial management capabilities in order to maximize our performance. We experienced significant executive transitions in 2017, and our organizational structure and senior management team may undergo additional changes in the future. Changes to our senior management team could result in a material business interruption and material costs, including as a result of severance or other termination payments. Any of the foregoing could affect our ability to successfully operate the combined company and implement our strategy and could adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition or results of operation.. We are or from time to time may become subject to litigation and regulatory proceedings, which could materially and adversely affect us.. We are subject to litigation in the normal course of our business. We are also a party to regulatory proceedings affecting the segments of the communications industry generally in which we engage in business. We cannot be certain of the ultimate outcomes of any claims that may arise in the future. Resolution of these types of matters against us may result in our having to pay significant fines, judgments, or settlements, which, if uninsured, or if the fines, judgments, and settlements exceed insured levels, could adversely impact us.. Applicable laws and regulations pertaining to our industry are subject to change.. The exact requirements of applicable law are not always clear, and the rules affecting our businesses are always subject to change. For example, the FCC may interpret its rules and regulations in enforcement proceedings in a manner that is inconsistent with the judgments we have made. Likewise, regulators and legislators at all levels of government may sometimes change existing rules or establish new rules. Congress, for example, considers new legislative requirements for cable operators. 37. Table of Contents. virtually every year, and there is always a risk that such proposals (if unfavorable to us) will ultimately be enacted. In addition, federal, state or local governments and/or tax authorities may change tax laws, regulations or administrative practices that could adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition or results of operations.. Tax matters, including the changes in corporate tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law by President Trump. The Tax Act contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for net operating losses generated subsequent to December 31, 2017 to 80% of current year taxable income, elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. It is also unknown if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.. We also need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax laws and regulations. The enactment of or increases in tariffs, or other changes in the application or interpretation of the Tax Act, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations.. Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We operate cable systems in locations throughout the United States and, as a result, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of federal, state and local governments. From time to time, various legislative and/or administrative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. As a result of state and local budget shortfalls due primarily to the recession as well as other considerations, certain states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on our services or changing the methodologies or base on which certain fees and taxes are computed. Such potential changes include additional taxes or fees on our services which could impact our customers, and combined reporting and other changes to general business taxes, central/unit-level assessment of property taxes and other matters, which could increase our income, franchise, sales, use and/or property tax liabilities. In addition, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. In addition, we have significant NOL carryforwards that are available to offset future operating results, but the availability and value of the NOLs may be impacted by future changes in federal or state law.. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had NOL carryforwards, for federal income tax purposes, of approximately $649 million, which may be available to offset federal income tax liabilities in the future. In general, under Section 382 (\"Section 382\") of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. Our offering resulted in a change of. 38. Table of Contents. ownership under Section 382 for federal and state income tax purposes. Section 382 provides limitations on the utilization of NOL carryforwards after an ownership change and we have analyzed the potential Section 382 impacts on our NOL carryforwards in the event of a Section 382 ownership change. We determined that our fair market value and our net unrealized built-in gain (\"NUBIG\") position resulted in a significant increase in our Section 382 limitation. Accordingly, we believe that our Section 382 limitation will not result in any significant impacts on our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards to offset future taxable income or will have any significant impact on future operating cash flows. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an additional ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. There is also a risk that due to regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of NOLs or other unforeseen reasons, our existing NOLs could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, including for state tax purposes. The generation of NOLs subsequent to December 31, 2017 are subject to the Tax Cut and Jobs Act, which removes NOL expirations, but limits utilization against taxable income to 80%. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs, even if we continue to remain profitable.. The FCC and local franchising authorities exercise authority over cable television systems and the FCC and state PSCs exercise authority over telecommunications services.. The FCC has promulgated regulations covering many aspects of cable television operations. Failure to comply with those regulations could lead the FCC to impose on us monetary fines, cease-and-desist orders and/or other administrative sanctions. The cable franchises that our systems operate under, which are issued by states, cities, counties or other political subdivisions, may contain similar enforcement mechanisms in the event of any failure to comply with the terms of those franchises.. The FCC also has promulgated regulations covering the interstate aspects and the regulated telecommunications earnings of our ILEC and CLEC operations. Our local and intrastate products and services and the regulated earnings are subject to regulation by state PSCs. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead the FCC to impose on us monetary fines, cease-and-desist orders and/or other administrative sanctions.. These fines, cease-and-desist order and/or other administrative sanctions may adversely affect our operations, business, financial condition or results of operations.. We have substantial indebtedness, which will increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and may limit our ability to pursue strategic alternatives and react to changes in our business and industry.. We have incurred substantial indebtedness. This amount of indebtedness may:. <U+0095> subject us to sensitivity to increases in prevailing interest rates;    <U+0095> place us at a disadvantage to competitors with relatively less debt in economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events;    <U+0095> limit our flexibility as a result of our debt service requirements or financial and operational covenants;     <U+0095> limit our access to additional capital and our ability to make capital expenditures and other investments in our business;     <U+0095> increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and interest rate increases;. 39. Table of Contents. <U+0095> result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under the notes or our other debt or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the indentures governing the notes or our other debt, which event of default could result in the notes and all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and, in the case of our secured debt, could permit the lenders to foreclose on our assets securing such debt;    <U+0095> limit our ability to pursue strategic alternatives, including merger or acquisition transactions; and     <U+0095> limit our ability to plan for or react to changes in our business and industry.. Additionally, our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in our debt instruments may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. If we do not comply with these covenants and restrictions, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. Failure to comply could also cause a default, which may result in our substantial indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we would be unable to adequately finance our operations.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our anticipated debt obligations will depend on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We might not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to affect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We expect that the agreements governing our indebtedness will restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and will also restrict our ability to raise debt capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not be able to access the credit and capital markets at the times and in the amounts needed and on acceptable terms.. From time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. Our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including our financial performance, our credit ratings or absence of a credit rating, the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy. There can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us.. The anticipated benefits of acquisitions may not be realized fully and may take longer to realize than expected and we may experience integration and transition difficulties.. In order to obtain all of the anticipated benefits of future acquisitions, management will be required to devote significant attention and resources to integrating the businesses and assets acquired.. 40. Table of Contents. Delays in this process could adversely affect the combined company's business, financial results and financial condition. Even if we are able to integrate our business operations successfully, there can be no assurance that the integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that we expect to realize or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time.. There is a risk that integration difficulties may cause us not to realize expected benefits from acquisitions and may affect our results, including adversely impacting the carrying value of the acquisition premium or goodwill. The long-term success of the acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining the two businesses.. In addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, which adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, providers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. Integration and transition efforts also may divert management attention and resources.. We may also opportunistically pursue dispositions of certain assets and/or businesses, which may involve material amounts of assets or lines of business, and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We have experienced net losses and may generate net losses in the future.. We experienced net losses in the past and may continue to report net losses in the future. In general, these prior net losses have principally resulted from interest expense related to our indebtedness, acquisitions and depreciation and amortization expenses associated with capital expenditures related to expanding and upgrading of our cable systems. If we continue to report net losses in the future, these losses may limit our ability to attract needed financing, and to do so on favorable terms, as such losses may prevent some investors from investing in our securities.. The accounting treatment of goodwill and other identified intangibles could result in future asset impairments, which would be recorded as operating losses.. Authoritative guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board requires that goodwill, including the goodwill included in the carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as cable franchise operating rights be tested annually for impairment or upon the occurrence of a triggering event. If the carrying value of goodwill or a certain intangible asset exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge to earnings on intangibles and goodwill of $147.4 million. If our goodwill or other intangible assets are determined to be further impaired in the future, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined, which would reduce our stockholders' equity.. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other risk factors described herein, these factors include:. <U+0095> actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and other operating results;    <U+0095> announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnership, joint venture or capital commitments;. 41. Table of Contents. <U+0095> changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other companies in our industry;    <U+0095> the addition or loss of significant customers;    <U+0095> fluctuations in trading volumes of our common stock or size of public float    <U+0095> price and volume fluctuations in overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole; and     <U+0095> lawsuits threatened or filed against us.. The stock markets have experienced extreme fluctuations in price and trading volume that have caused and will likely continue to cause the stock prices of many telecommunications companies to fluctuate in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of declining stock prices. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, we could face substantial costs and be forced to divert resources and the attention of management from our business, which could adversely affect our business.. A significant portion of our common stock will continue to be held by Avista and Crestview, whose interests may differ from yours.. Avista and Crestview own, in the aggregate, approximately 71% of our outstanding shares of common stock. They may have interests that are different from or adverse to our other stockholders. For example, these stockholders may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree or which are not in your interests or which adversely impact the value of our common stock. These stockholders will be able to exercise a significant level of control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions and, through our Board of Directors, the ability to control decision-making with respect to our business direction and policies. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control in us or changes in management and could also make the approval of certain transactions difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock.. Even if their ownership of our shares falls below a majority, they may continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, each of Avista and Crestview and their affiliates will not have any obligation to present to us, and they may separately pursue, corporate opportunities of which they become aware, even if those opportunities are ones that we would have pursued if granted the opportunity.. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional shares. We have a total of approximately 88.4 million shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2017. Of these shares, all common stock sold in our initial public offering, except for any shares held by our affiliates, are eligible for sale in the public.. All of our shares of common stock currently outstanding may be sold in the public market by existing stockholders subject to applicable volume and other limitations imposed under federal securities laws. Further, holders of approximately 71% of our outstanding common stock have demand and/or piggyback registration rights to require us to register our common stock with the SEC. If we. 42. Table of Contents. register these shares, the stockholders would be able to sell those shares freely in the public market. In addition, we filed a registration statement registering under the Securities Act the common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our directors, officers and employees. If any of these holders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise capital in the future.. Shareholders may be diluted by the future issuance of additional common stock in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise.. We have approximately 612 million shares of common stock authorized but unissued under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. We will be authorized to issue these shares of common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to common stock for consideration and on terms and conditions established by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. Any common stock that we issue, including under our equity incentive plans, would dilute the percentage ownership held by investors.. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of common stock. Any issuance of additional securities in connection with investments or acquisitions may result in additional dilution.. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.. We incur significant costs as a result of being a publicly-traded company.. As a public company, we are now subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the \"Exchange Act\"), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the rules and regulations of the NYSE. Being subject to these rules and regulations results in legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and can also place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources."
