[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business. The following discussion of \"Risk Factors\" identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial position. This information should be read in conjunction with \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. The following discussion of risks is not all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our business and expectations. These factors could cause our future results to differ materially from our historical results and from expectations reflected in forward-looking statements. Additionally, this discussion should not be construed as a listing of risks by order of potential magnitude or probability to occur.. One of our noteholders has claimed that transactions relating to our spin-off of certain assets in 2015 into a publicly-traded real estate investment trust (REIT\") (\"Spin-Off\") resulted in one or more defaults of certain covenants under one of our existing indentures.. On September 22, 2017, we received a purported notice of default under the indenture governing our 6.375 percent senior notes due 2023 (the \"2013 Indenture\") from a purported holder of the senior notes, which alleged that we had breached certain covenants under the 2013 Indenture, primarily that the Spin-Off constituted a sale and leaseback transaction (as defined in the 2013 Indenture) which was not in compliance with the 2013 Indenture, and, in connection with the Spin-Off, we made a restricted payment (as defined in the 2013 Indenture) during the pendency of the alleged defaults. On December 7, 2017, the purported holder issued a notice of acceleration claiming that the principal amount, along with accrued interest, was due and payable immediately.. Although we do not believe that any default under the 2013 Indenture occurred and that these allegations are without merit, there can be no assurance that the noteholder will not be successful in the pursuit of its claims, currently in litigation, to obtain a court order that the principal amount of the notes issued under the 2013 Indenture is due and payable, together with accrued interest. Holders of other outstanding series of our notes could also make similar or other allegations and seek to declare an event of default and accelerate other series of our notes. Any such acceleration of a series of our outstanding notes could also allow lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to declare all funds borrowed to be due and payable, to terminate their commitments thereunder, to cease making further loans, and to institute foreclosure proceedings against their collateral. Any such actions may result in an outcome that could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial conditions as well as our stakeholders, as any such actions could force us to seek bankruptcy protection or liquidation. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, we may expend significant management time and attention and funds to defend against such claims.. Our board of directors elected to eliminate our quarterly common stock dividend commencing in the third quarter of 2017 as part of our newly revised capital allocation strategy. We have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. As a result, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. On August 3, 2017, our board of directors elected to eliminate our quarterly common stock dividend commencing in the third quarter of 2017, and we do not currently expect to declare or pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to use the cash savings from the elimination of the quarterly dividend payment to repay certain of our debt obligations. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, restrictions imposed by any covenants in our then existing debt instruments or imposed by our then existing indebtedness, restrictions imposed by applicable law, general business conditions and other factors considered relevant by our board of directors. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell it for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. We may deviate from our current capital allocation strategy.. We believe that our capital allocation strategy, including our plan to use the cash savings from the elimination of the quarterly dividend payment for debt reduction, will benefit our stockholders over time and lower our cost of capital. However, there is no assurance that our current capital allocation strategy will have a beneficial impact on our stock price, enhance stockholder value or lower our cost of capital. Implementation of our capital allocation strategy depends on the interplay of different factors, including, but not limited to, our stock price, the interest rates on our debt and the rate of return on available investments. If these factors are not conducive to implementing our revised capital allocation strategy, or we determine that adopting a different capital allocation. 16. strategy is in the best interest of stockholders, we reserve the right to deviate from this approach. There can be no assurance that we will not deviate from or adopt an alternative capital allocation strategy moving forward.. We may be unable to fully realize expected benefits from our recent mergers with EarthLink and Broadview.. We expect to achieve substantial operating and capital synergies and cost savings as a result of our mergers with EarthLink Holdings Corp. and Broadview Holdings, Inc. If we are unable to successfully integrate the businesses, or integrate them in a timely fashion, we may face material adverse effects including, but not limited to:. •diversion of the attention of management and key personnel and potential disruption of our ongoing businesses;. •customer losses;. •the loss of quality employees from EarthLink and Broadview;. •adverse developments in vendor relationships;. •declines in our results of operations and financial condition; and. •a decline in the market price of our common stock.. Even if we successfully integrate the businesses, there can be no assurance that the integration will result in the realization of the full benefit of the anticipated synergies and cost savings or that these benefits will be realized within the expected time frames.. Competition in our business markets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We serve business customers in markets across the country, competing against other communications providers and cable television companies for business customers. Competition in our business markets could adversely affect growth in business revenues and ultimately have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may be forced to lower prices or increase our sales and marketing expenses. In addition, we may need to continue to make significant capital expenditures to keep up with technological advances and offer competitive services. For additional information, see the risk factor \"Rapid changes in technology could affect our ability to compete for business customers.\". In certain markets where we serve business customers, we lease significant amounts of network capacity to provide service to our customers. We lease these facilities from companies competing directly with us for business customers. For additional information, see the risk factor \"In certain operating territories, we are dependent on other carriers to provide facilities which we use to provide service to our customers.\". Rapid changes in technology could affect our ability to compete for business customers.. The technology used to deliver communications services has changed rapidly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future. If we are unable to keep up with such changes and leverage next generation technology, we may not be able to offer competitive services to our business customers. This could adversely affect our ability to compete for business customers, which, in turn, would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. In certain operating territories and/or at certain locations, we are dependent on other carriers to provide facilities that we use to provide service to our customers.. In certain markets and/or at certain locations, especially where we provide services to businesses, we may lease a significant portion of our network capacity from other carriers. These carriers may compete directly with us for customers. The prices for network services are contained in tariffs, interconnection agreements, and negotiated contracts. Terms, conditions and pricing for tariff network services may be changed, but they must be approved by the appropriate regulatory agency before they go into effect. For network service purchased pursuant to interconnection agreements, the rates, terms and conditions included therein are approved by state commissions while other network services, such as some high-capacity Ethernet services, may be obtained through commercial contracts subject to limited government oversight.. 17. The availability and pricing of network services purchased via commercial agreements are subject to change without regulatory oversight. For interconnection agreement-based network services, if an agreement cannot be negotiated and we have to invoke binding arbitration by a state regulatory agency, that process is expensive, time consuming, and the results may not be favorable to us. In addition, rates for network services set forth above are susceptible to changes in the availability and pricing of the provider's facilities and services. In the event a provider becomes legally entitled to deny or limit access to capacity (or already is, as is the case with respect to certain services) or if state commissions allow the providers to increase rates for tariffed or interconnection agreement-based rates, we may not be able to effectively compete. In addition, some carriers may seek to impose monetary penalties if we cannot meet specific volume and term commitments that are part of pricing plans. Finally, if the provider does not adequately maintain or timely install these facilities, despite legal obligations, our service to customers may be adversely affected. As a result of all these items, our competitive position, our operations, financial condition and operating results could be materially affected.. Increases in broadband usage may cause network capacity limitations, resulting in service disruptions or reduced capacity for customers.. Video streaming services and peer-to-peer file sharing applications use significantly more bandwidth than traditional Internet activity such as web browsing and email. As these services continue to add content and features and utilization rates of the services continue to grow, our high-speed Internet customers may use much more bandwidth than in the past. If this occurs, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity to avoid service disruptions or reduced capacity for customers.. Alternatively, we may choose to implement reasonable network management practices to reduce the network capacity available to bandwidth-intensive activities during certain times in market areas experiencing congestion, and these actions could negatively affect customer experience and increase customer churn.. While we believe demand for these services may drive customers to pay for faster Internet speeds offered as part of our premium services, we may not be able to recover the costs of the necessary network investments. This could result in an adverse impact to our results of operations and financial condition.. Disruptions and congestion in our networks and infrastructure may cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses.. Our customers depend on reliable service over our network. Some of the risks to our network infrastructure include physical damage to lines, security breaches, capacity limitations, power surges or outages, software defects and disruptions beyond our control, such as natural disasters and acts of terrorism. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we will experience disruptions in our service due to factors such as cable damage, inclement weather and service failures of our third-party service providers. Additionally, we could face disruptions due to capacity limitations as a result of changes in our customers' high-speed Internet usage patterns, resulting in a significant increase in the utilization of our network.. We could experience more significant disruptions in the future. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers or incur additional expenses or capital expenditures. Such results could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. A change in ownership may limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards.. If Windstream experiences a 50 percent or greater change in ownership involving shareholders owning 5 percent or more of its stock, it could adversely impact Windstream's ability to utilize its existing net operating loss carryforwards. The inability to utilize existing net operating loss carryforwards would significantly increase the amount of Windstream's annual cash taxes reducing the overall amount of cash available to be used in other areas of the business.. In September 2015, Windstream's board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan (the \"Rights Plan\"), under which Windstream shareholders of record as of the close of business on September 28, 2015 received one preferred share purchase right for each share of common stock outstanding. The Rights Plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual Meeting held on May 12, 2016. The Rights Plan is designed to protect Windstream's net operating loss carryforwards from the effect of limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (\"IRC\"), if an ownership change should occur in the future. In general, an ownership change will occur when the percentage of Windstream's ownership by one or more \"5-percent shareholders\" (as defined under IRC Section 382) has increased by more than 50 percent at any time during the prior three years (calculated on a rolling basis). Pursuant to the Rights Plan, if a shareholder (or group) acquires beneficial ownership of 4.9 percent or more of the outstanding shares of Windstream's common stock without prior approval of our Board of Directors or without meeting certain customary exceptions,. 18. the rights would become exercisable and entitle shareholders (other than the acquiring shareholder or group) to purchase additional shares of Windstream at a significant discount and result in significant dilution in the economic interest and voting power of acquiring shareholder or group. Although the Rights Plan is intended to reduce the likelihood of an \"ownership change\" that could adversely affect us, there is no assurance that the restrictions on transferability in the Rights Plan will prevent all transfers that could result in such an \"ownership change.\" The Rights Plan was amended by the Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement, dated November 5, 2016, to confirm that any EarthLink shareholder that became a 4.9 percent or greater shareholder of the combined company as a result of the merger is exempt and the ownership does not trigger implementation of the Rights Plan unless the shareholder acquires additional shares of common stock.. Windstream may seek to amend the Rights Plan in the future, requiring approval by shareholders. If not approved, Windstream would lose the benefits provided by the Rights Plan as the Rights Plan will terminate pursuant to its terms in September 2018.. If the spin-off, and certain related transactions, fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify Uniti for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations that we entered into with Uniti.. We received a private letter ruling from the IRS (the \"IRS Ruling\") to the effect that, on the basis of certain facts presented and representations and assumptions, the spin-off will qualify as tax-free under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. Although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the IRS, if the factual representations and assumptions made are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, we will not be able to rely on the IRS Ruling. In addition, the IRS Ruling does not address certain requirements for tax-free treatment of the spin-off under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code and our use of Uniti indebtedness and common stock to retire certain of our indebtedness (the \"debt exchanges\"). Accordingly, the spin-off was conditioned upon the receipt of a tax opinion from our tax counsel with respect to the requirements on which the IRS did not rule, which concluded that such requirements also should be satisfied. Any change in currently applicable law, which may or may not be retroactive, or the failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects, could adversely affect the conclusions reached in the tax opinion. In addition, the tax opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS and/or the courts may not agree with the tax opinion. However, if the spin-off or the debt exchanges failed to qualify as tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may incur significant tax liabilities that could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. While certain tax audits regarding the tax year 2015 have concluded, if the spin-off ultimately was determined to be taxable, then a shareholder that received shares of Uniti common stock in the spin-off would be treated as having received a distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares and could incur significant income tax liabilities. Such distribution would be taxable to such shareholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits (including earnings and profits resulting from the recognition of gain by us in the spin-off). Any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such shareholder's tax basis in its shares of our common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. In addition, if the spin-off were determined to be taxable, we would recognize taxable gain.. Under the terms of the tax matters agreement that we entered into with Uniti, Uniti is generally responsible for any taxes imposed on us that arise from the failure of the spin-off and the debt exchanges to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, within the meaning of Section 355 and Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, as applicable, to the extent such failure to qualify is attributable to certain actions, events or transactions relating to Uniti's stock, indebtedness, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or any covenants made by Uniti in the tax matters agreement, the materials submitted to the IRS in connection with the request for the IRS Ruling or the representations provided in connection with the tax opinion. Uniti's indemnification obligations to us are not limited by any maximum amount and such amounts could be substantial. If Uniti were required to indemnify us, Uniti may be subject to substantial liabilities and there can be no assurance that Uniti will be able to satisfy such indemnification obligations.. 19. In connection with the spin-off, Uniti will indemnify us and we will indemnify Uniti for certain liabilities. There can be no assurance that the indemnities from Uniti will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Uniti's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future.. Pursuant to agreements that we entered into with Uniti in connection with the spin-off, Uniti agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify Uniti for certain liabilities. However, third parties might seek to hold us responsible for liabilities that Uniti agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that Uniti will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations under these agreements. In addition, indemnities that we may be required to provide to Uniti could be significant and could adversely affect our business.. We are required to pay rent under the master lease with Uniti, and our ability to do so could be adversely impaired by results of our operations, changes in our cash requirements and cash tax obligations, or overall financial position; conversely, payment of the rent could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and growth and limit our ability to react to competitive and economic changes.. We are required to pay a portion of our cash flow from operations to Uniti pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions of the master lease. Our ability to pay the rent owed to Uniti could be adversely impaired by results of our operations, changes in our cash obligations and requirements, or general financial position. Additionally, our obligation to pay rent could impair our ability to fund our own operations, raise capital, make acquisitions and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes may be adversely affected, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to comply with the provisions of the master lease with Uniti could materially adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. We currently lease a significant portion of our telecommunications network assets, including our fiber and copper networks and other real estate, under the master lease with Uniti. Our failure to pay the rent or comply with the provisions of the master lease would result in an event of default regarding the master lease and also could result in a default under other agreements. Upon an event of default, remedies available to Uniti include terminating the master lease and requiring us to transfer the business operations we conduct at the leased assets so terminated (with limited exceptions) to a successor tenant for fair market value pursuant to a process set forth in the master lease, dispossessing us from the leased assets, and/or collecting monetary damages for the breach (including rent acceleration), electing to leave the master lease in place and sue for rent and any other monetary damages, and seeking any and all other rights and remedies available under law or in equity. The exercise of such remedies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. Cyber security incidents could have a significant operational and financial impact.. We store customers' proprietary business information in our facilities through our colocation, managed services and cloud computing services. In addition, we maintain certain sensitive customer information in our financial and operating systems. While we have implemented data security polices and other internal controls to safeguard and protect against misuse or loss of this information, if their data were compromised through a cyber security incident, it could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have implemented network and data security policies and other internal controls to safeguard and protect against malicious interference with our networks and information technology infrastructure and related systems and technology, as well as misappropriation of data and other malfeasance, but we cannot eliminate the risk associated with these types of occurrences. As part of our information security processes that are regularly reviewed by management and monitored by the Audit Committee, we continue to adapt to new threats, but increasing incidents of unsuccessful and successful \"cyber attacks\", such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses and denial of service attacks, as well as misappropriation of data, pose growing risks of a significant effect on our results of operations and financial condition and we cannot fully predict the evolution of such threats.. 20. We are subject to various forms of regulation from the Federal Communications Commission (\"FCC\") and state regulatory commissions in the states in which we operate, which limit our pricing flexibility for regulated voice and high-speed Internet products, subject us to service quality, service reporting and other obligations and expose us to the reduction of revenue from changes to the universal service fund, the inter-carrier compensation system, or access to interconnection with competitors' facilities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had operating authority from each of the 48 states and the District of Columbia in which we conducted local service operations, and we are subject to various forms of regulation from the regulatory commissions in each of these areas as well as from the FCC. State regulatory commissions have jurisdiction over local and intrastate services including, to some extent, the rates that we charge and service quality standards. The FCC has primary jurisdiction over interstate services including the rates that we charge other telecommunications companies that use our network and other issues related to interstate service. In some circumstances, these regulations restrict our ability to adjust rates to reflect market conditions and may affect our ability to compete and respond to changing industry conditions.. Future revenues, costs, and capital investment in our wireline business could be adversely affected by material changes to or decisions regarding applicability of government requirements, including, but not limited to, changes in rules governing inter-carrier compensation, state and federal USF support, competition policies, and other pricing and requirements. Federal and state communications laws and regulations may be amended in the future, and other laws and regulations may affect our business. In addition, certain laws and regulations applicable to us and our competitors may be, and have been, challenged in the courts and could be changed at any time. We cannot predict future developments or changes to the regulatory environment or the impact such developments or changes would have.. In addition, these regulations could create significant compliance costs for us. Delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses, and conditions imposed in connection with such approvals could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge our customers. Our business also may be affected by legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations related to, for example, assisting law enforcement, bolstering homeland and cyber-security, protecting intellectual property rights of third parties, minimizing environmental impacts, protecting customer privacy, or addressing other issues that affect our business.. Our operations require substantial capital expenditures, and if funds for capital expenditures are not available when needed, this could affect our service to customers and our growth opportunities.. We require substantial capital to maintain our network, and our growth strategy will require significant capital investments for network enhancements and build-out. During 2017, we incurred $908.6 million in total capital expenditures, including $49.9 million related to Project Excel and $34.5 million in incremental spend related to the acquisitions of Broadview and EarthLink. We expect to incur $750.0 million to $800.0 million in capital expenditures during 2018, excluding incremental capital spend related to the acquisitions of EarthLink and Broadview. We expect to be able to fund required capital expenditures from cash generated from operations. However, other risk factors described in this section could materially reduce cash available from operations or significantly increase our capital expenditure requirements. If this occurs, funds for capital expenditures may not be available when needed, which could affect our service to customers and our growth opportunities.. The level of returns on our pension plan investments and changes to the actuarial assumptions used to value our pension obligations could have a material effect on our earnings and result in material funding requirements to meet our pension obligations.. Our pension plan invests in marketable securities, including marketable debt and equity securities denominated in foreign currencies, which are exposed to changes in the financial markets. During 2017, the fair market value of these investments increased from $799.4 million to $841.4 million primarily due to investment returns of $97.3 million and employer contributions of $30.1 million. These increases were partially offset by routine benefit payments of $85.9 million. Returns generated on plan assets have historically funded a large portion of the benefits paid under our pension plan.. 21. Funding requirements may increase as a result of a decline in the market value of plan assets, a decline in the interest rates used to calculate the present value of future plan obligations or government regulations that increase minimum funding requirements of the pension liability. We estimate that the long term rate of return on plan assets will be 7.0 percent, but returns below this estimate could significantly increase our contribution requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flows from operations. Also, reductions in discount rates and extensions of participant mortality rates directly increase our pension liability and expose us to greater funding obligations in the future. Our earnings reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"U.S. GAAP\") may also be adversely affected due to our method of accounting for pension costs, whereby we immediately recognize gains and losses resulting from the return on plan assets as well as other changes in actuarial assumptions impacting our discount rate and mortality estimates.. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our cash flow and impair our ability to raise additional capital on favorable terms.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $5,843.9 million long-term debt outstanding, including current maturities. We may also obtain additional long-term debt to meet future financing needs or to fund potential acquisitions, subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, which would increase our total debt. Our substantial amount of debt could have negative consequences to our business. For example, it could:. • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to interest and principal payments on outstanding debt, thereby limiting the availability of cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate requirements;. • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the telecommunications industry;. • Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have less debt; and. • Limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity.. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future will depend in part on the satisfaction of the covenants in our credit facility and its other debt agreements. If we are unable to satisfy the financial covenants contained in those agreements, or are unable to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, the lenders and other parties to those arrangements could accelerate the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness.. We may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or have future borrowings available under our credit facility or from other sources sufficient to enable us to make our debt payments or to fund other liquidity needs. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to make payments or refinance our debt, or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as selling assets, issuing additional equity or debt, or negotiating with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. Our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to do some of these things on favorable terms or at all.. As of February 28, 2018, Moody's Investors Service (\"Moody's\"), S&P and Fitch Ratings (\"Fitch\") had granted Windstream the following senior secured, senior unsecured and corporate credit ratings:. Description   Moody's     S&P       Fitch     Senior secured credit rating   B3   BB-   BB Senior unsecured credit rating   Caa1   B-   B Corporate credit rating   B3   B   B Outlook   Negative   Negative   Negative. Factors that could affect our short and long-term credit ratings include, but are not limited to, a material decline in our operating results, increased debt levels relative to operating cash flows resulting from future acquisitions, increased capital expenditure requirements, or changes to our capital allocation policy. In addition, we are not currently paying down a significant amount of debt. If our credit ratings were to be downgraded from current levels, we might incur higher interest costs on future borrowings, and our access to the public capital markets could be adversely affected.. 22. Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The 2017 Tax Act was recently enacted as law in the United States. While we believe the overall impact of the new tax law should be favorable to Windstream long-term, we are in the process of assessing its full impact and any negative consequences on our operating result and financial condition. Additionally, we are frequently subject to routine audits by federal, state and local tax authorities. While we believe we have adequately provided for tax contingencies, these audits may result in tax liabilities that differ materially from what we have recognized in our consolidated financial statements.. Finally, legislators and regulators at all levels of government may from time to time change existing tax rules and regulations or enact new rules that could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.. Competition in our consumer service areas could reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We face intense competitive pressures in our consumer service areas. If we continue to lose consumer households as we have historically, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. During 2017, our consumer households declined 6.3 percent.. Sources of competition include, but are not limited to, wireless companies, cable television companies and other communications carriers. Many of our competitors, especially wireless and cable television companies, have advantages over us, including substantially larger operational and financial resources, larger and more diverse networks, less stringent regulation and superior brand recognition. For additional discussion regarding competition, see \"Competition\" in Item 1.. Cable television companies have aggressively expanded in our consumer markets, offering voice and high-speed Internet services in addition to video services. Some of our customers have chosen to move to cable television providers for their voice, high-speed Internet and television bundles. Cable television companies are subject to less stringent regulations than our consumer operations. For more information, refer to the risk factor, \"Our competitors, especially cable television companies, in our consumer markets are subject to less stringent industry regulations.\". Wireless competition has contributed to a reduction in our voice lines and generally has caused pricing pressure in the industry. Some customers have chosen to stop using traditional wireline phone service and instead rely solely on wireless service. We anticipate that this trend toward solely using wireless services will continue, particularly if wireless prices continue to decline and the quality of wireless services improves.. Competition in our consumer markets could affect our revenues and profitability in several ways, including accelerated consumer household loss, reductions by customers in usage-based services or shifts to less profitable services and a need to lower our prices or increase marketing expenses to stay competitive.. If we are prohibited from participating in government programs, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We are the recipient of a material amount of end user revenue and government funding under various government programs and also serve as a government contractor for services for various state, local and federal agencies. Our failure to comply with the complex government regulations and statutes applicable to the programs, or the terms of one or more of our government contracts, could result in our being suspended or disbarred from future government programs for a significant period of time or result in harm to our reputation with the government and possible restriction from future government activities. While we have implemented compliance programs and internal controls that are reasonably designed to prevent misconduct and non-compliance relating to the government programs and contracting, we cannot eliminate the risk that our employees, partners or subcontractors may independently engage in such activities.. If we are suspended or debarred from government programs, or if our government contracts are terminated for any reason, we could suffer a significant reduction in expected revenue which could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results.. 23. New technologies may affect our ability to compete in our consumer markets.. Wireless companies are aggressively developing networks using next-generation data technologies, which are capable of delivering high-speed Internet service via wireless technology to a larger geographic footprint. If these technologies continue to expand in availability and reliability, they could become a cost effective alternative to our high-speed Internet services. In addition, cable operators may be able to take advantage of certain technology to deploy faster broadband speeds more rapidly than Windstream.. These and other new and evolving technologies could result in greater competition for our voice and high-speed Internet services. If we cannot develop new services and products to keep pace with technological advances, or if such services and products are not widely embraced by our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Competitors, especially cable television companies, in our consumer markets are subject to less stringent industry regulations, which could result in voice line and revenues losses in the future.. Cable television companies are generally subject to less stringent regulations than our consumer operations. Cable voice offerings and others are subject to fewer service quality and reporting requirements than our consumer operations, and their rates are generally not subject to regulation, unlike our consumer voice services. Our consumer areas also may be subject to \"carrier of last resort\" obligations, which generally obligate us to provide basic voice services to any person within our service area regardless of the profitability of the customer. Our competitors in these areas are not subject to such requirements.. Because of these regulatory disparities, we have less flexibility in our consumer markets than our competitors. This could result in accelerated voice line and revenue losses in the future.. In 2017, we received approximately 5 percent of our revenues from state and federal USF, and any material adverse regulatory developments with respect to these funds could adversely affect our financial and operating condition.. We receive state and federal USF revenues to support the high cost of providing affordable telecommunications services in rural markets. Such support payments constituted approximately 5 percent of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. Pending regulatory proceedings to reform state and federal USF programs and our implementation of those reforms could, depending on the outcome, materially reduce our USF revenues and increase our expenses.. The FCC implemented the Connect America Fund, which was adopted in 2011 and includes a short-term (\"CAF Phase I\") and a longer-term (\"CAF Phase II\") framework. Windstream elected to participate in both programs. To obtain the available funding, which is greater than the amount Windstream received from the legacy federal universal service program, Windstream has committed to offer broadband to a certain number of locations at specified speeds in particular portions of its service areas. This will require substantial capital investment and large-scale construction by Windstream in rural and hard-to-serve geography. Costs of Phase II could exceed estimates by a material amount. The scale and scope of the network buildout to meet the obligations is challenging and complex. If Windstream is not able to fulfill its commitments, it would be required to return some funding and may be subject to additional penalties.. We are required to make contributions to state and federal USF programs each year. Most state and federal regulations allow us to recover these contributions by including a surcharge on our customers' bills. If state and/or federal regulations change, and we become ineligible to receive support, such support is reduced, or we become unable to recover the amounts we contribute to the state and federal USF programs from our customers, our results of operations and financial condition would be directly and adversely affected.. We have written off a portion of our goodwill, and may be required to write off additional goodwill in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, our goodwill comprised 25.6 percent of our assets. Each year, and more frequently on an interim basis if appropriate, we are required by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, to assess whether the amount of goodwill assigned to each of our reporting units is impaired. Significant judgments are required to estimate the fair value of reporting units including estimating future cash flows, near-term and long-term revenue growth, and determining appropriate discount rates, among other assumptions. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $1,840.8 million. Future impairment reviews could result in additional impairment charges. Any such impairment charges could materially adversely affect our financial results for the periods in which they are recorded.. 24. We may need to defend ourselves against lawsuits or claims that we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others.. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties, or we are named in lawsuits filed by third parties, claiming we have infringed or are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. We may receive similar notices or be involved in similar lawsuits in the future. In certain situations, we may have the ability to seek indemnification from our vendors regarding these lawsuits or claims. If we cannot enforce our indemnification rights or if our vendors lack the financial means to indemnify us, these claims may require us to expend significant time and money defending our alleged use of the affected technology, may require us to enter into licensing agreements requiring one-time or periodic royalty payments that we would not otherwise have to pay or may require us to pay damages. If we are required to take one or more of these actions, it may result in an adverse impact to our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in responding to these claims, we may be required to stop selling or redesign one or more of our products or services, which could adversely affect the way we conduct our business.. Weak economic conditions may decrease demand for our services.. We could be affected by economic conditions and downturns in the economy, especially in regards to our business customers. Downturns in the economy in the markets we serve could cause our existing customers to reduce their purchases of our services and make it difficult for us to obtain new customers.. Our relationships with other communications companies are material to our operations and their financial difficulties may adversely affect us.. We originate and terminate calls for long-distance and other voice carriers over our network in exchange for access charges. These access charges represent a significant portion of our revenues. Additionally, we are making significant capital investments to deploy fiber-to-the-tower and other network services in return for long-term revenue generating contracts. If these carriers go bankrupt or experience substantial financial difficulties and we are unable to timely collect payments from them, it may have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Key suppliers may experience financial difficulties that may affect our operations.. Windstream purchases a significant amount of equipment from key suppliers to maintain, upgrade and enhance our network facilities and operations. Should these suppliers experience financial difficulties, their issues could adversely affect our business through increased prices to source purchases through alternative vendors or unanticipated delays in the delivery of equipment and services purchased.. Adverse developments in our relationship with our employees could adversely affect our business, our results of operations and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 1,223 employees, or approximately 9 percent of all of our employees, covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our relationship with these unions generally has been satisfactory.. We are currently party to 23 collective bargaining agreements and one National Pension Agreement with several unions, which expire at various times. Of our existing collective bargaining agreements, eight agreements covering approximately 500 employees are due to expire in 2018. In addition, the national pension agreement covers approximately 400 employees. This agreement expired in 2010 but has been extended indefinitely, subject to the right of Windstream or the unions to terminate the agreement with 30 days' notice. Historically, we have succeeded in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements without work stoppages; however, no assurances can be given that we will succeed in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements to replace the expiring ones without work stoppages. Increases in organizational activity or any future work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and financial condition."
