[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the specific risk factors described below in addition to the other information contained in this Report before making a decision to invest in our common stock. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects could be harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and a loss of all or part of your investment. Certain statements below are forward-looking statements. See the section entitled \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to the Acquisition of ETFS. Failure to complete the acquisition of ETFS could negatively impact us.. In November 2017, we agreed to acquire ETFS. Completion of the acquisition is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions. These conditions include, among others, (i) the receipt of required regulatory approvals, (ii) approval of the listing on Nasdaq of the shares to be issued to ETFS, (iii) we and ETF Securities entering into an Investor Rights Agreement, pursuant to which, among other things, ETFS will be subject to lock-up, standstill and voting restrictions, and will receive certain registration rights with respect to the common stock, including the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock, it will receive in the transaction and (iv) obtaining various additional third party consents. These conditions to completion may not be fulfilled and, accordingly, the acquisition may not be completed. If the acquisition is not completed by May 13, 2018, either we or ETFS may choose not to proceed with the acquisition. The parties also can mutually decide to terminate the Share Sale Agreement at any time prior to completion. In addition, either we or ETFS may elect to terminate the Share Sale Agreement in certain other circumstances.. If the Share Sale Agreement is terminated and the acquisition is not completed, we may be adversely affected by, among other things, the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities during the pendency of the acquisition, the failure to obtain the anticipated benefits of completing the acquisition, and the focus of our management on the acquisition rather than on normal business operations or opportunities. The market price of our common stock might decline as a result of any such failures to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the acquisition will be completed. Additionally, even if the acquisition is not completed, we will be responsible for certain transaction costs associated with the acquisition including financial advisory, legal, accounting, consulting and other advisory fees and expenses, which may be significant. Any of these factors, among others, could have a material impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Over the last few years, we have expanded our business into Europe, Japan and Canada, and recently agreed to further expand our European operations through the acquisition of ETFS. This expansion subjects us to increased operational, regulatory, financial and other risks.. Assuming we complete the acquisition of ETFS, we will face increased operational, regulatory, financial, compliance, reputational and foreign exchange rate risks. The failure of our compliance and internal control systems to properly mitigate such additional risks, or of our operating infrastructure to support such expansion, could result in operational failures and regulatory fines or sanctions. If our international products and operations experience any negative consequences or are perceived negatively in non-U.S. markets, it may also harm our reputation in other markets, including the U.S. market.. The expansion of our European business through the acquisition of ETFS will require us to incur up-front expenses associated with completing the acquisition, as well as additional ongoing expenses, including those associated with leases, the employment of additional support staff and regulatory compliance, which may be higher than expected. To the extent that our revenues do not increase to the same degree our expenses increase, our profitability could be adversely affected. The expansion of our European business also may place significant demands on our existing infrastructure and employees.. The proposed acquisition of ETFS is significant in size relative to our assets and operations and may result in significant changes in our business. Our failure to integrate and manage ETFS successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The acquisition of ETFS will be significant for us. If the acquisition is completed, we will face numerous risks, including, among others:. <U+0095>   failure to achieve financial, operating or business objectives and synergies;. <U+0095>   failure to integrate successfully and in a timely manner any operations, products, services or technology;. <U+0095>   diversion of the attention of management and other personnel;. <U+0095>   failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals;. 23. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   failure to retain personnel;. <U+0095>   unforeseen liabilities or expenses;. <U+0095>   failure of counterparties to indemnify us against liabilities arising from the transaction;. <U+0095>   potential loss of, or harm to, our relationship with our and the counterparties' employees, customers and suppliers due to integration of a new business;. <U+0095>   accounting charges;. <U+0095>   unfavorable market conditions and foreign exchange risks that could negatively impact the acquired or combined businesses; and. <U+0095>   legal proceedings which may result in expenses and/or have a material adverse effect on our business.. We could be prevented from, or significantly delayed in, achieving our strategic goals if we are unable to successfully integrate ETFS. Our International Business segment had pre-tax losses of $9.1 million, $19.2 million and $12.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. While we expect the acquisition of ETFS to immediately add scale to our International Business segment, we cannot provide any assurance that this will occur. Our failure to integrate and manage ETFS successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. Net outflows in our two largest ETFs have had, and in the future could continue to have, a negative impact on our revenues.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 36% of our U.S. listed ETF AUM was concentrated in two of our WisdomTree ETFs, with 16% in WisdomTree Europe Hedged Equity Fund (HEDJ) and 20% in WisdomTree Japan Hedged Equity Fund (DXJ). These two ETFs also accounted for approximately 40% of our revenues in 2017. As a result, our operating results are particularly exposed to the performance of these ETFs and our ability to maintain the AUM of these ETFs, as well as investor sentiment toward investing in the ETFs' strategies. We are also subject to political, economic and market risks in either of these markets and to a weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro or Yen. During 2017, DXJ flows were essentially flat while HEDJ experienced net outflows $2.6 billion. In 2016, HEDJ and DXJ experienced net outflows of $7.8 billion and $5.7 billion, respectively, and through February 16, 2018, these same funds have experienced outflows of $0.7 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. If HEDJ and DXJ were to continue to experience net outflows, our revenues would be adversely affected.. Declining prices of securities can adversely affect our business by reducing the market value of the assets we manage or causing WisdomTree ETF shareholders to sell their fund shares and trigger redemptions.. We are subject to risks arising from declining prices of securities, which may result in a decrease in demand for investment products, a higher redemption rate and/or a decline in AUM. The securities markets are highly volatile and securities prices may increase or decrease for many reasons, including general economic conditions, the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar, political events, acts of terrorism and other matters beyond our control. Substantially all our revenues are determined by AUM in equity securities, in both the international and U.S. markets. As a result, our business can be expected to generate lower revenues in declining equity market environments or general economic downturns. A decline in the prices of securities held by the WisdomTree ETFs may cause our revenues to decline by either causing the value of our AUM to decrease, which would result in lower advisory fees, or causing investors in the WisdomTree ETFs to sell their shares in favor of investments they perceive to offer greater opportunity or lower risk, thus triggering redemptions that would also result in decreased AUM and lower fees.. In addition, a substantial portion of AUM of ETFS are in products backed by gold. These products historically have been negatively correlated with our two largest ETFs, HEDJ and DXJ, and therefore we may experience improved stability of AUM and lower overall AUM volatility if the acquisition of ETFS is completed. However, we can provide no assurance that the negative historical correlation between the AUM of ETFS and the AUM of our two largest ETFs will continue in the future.. Fluctuations in the amount and mix of our AUM may negatively impact revenues and operating margins.. The level of our revenues depends on the amount and mix of our AUM. Our revenues are derived primarily from advisory fees based on a percentage of the value of our AUM and vary with the nature of the ETFs, which have different fee levels. Fluctuations in the amount and mix of our AUM may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and operating margins.. 24. Table of Contents. Withdrawals or broad changes in investments in our ETFs by investors with significant positions may negatively impact revenues and operating margins.. We have had in the past, and may have in the future, investors who maintain significant positions in one or more of our ETFs. If such an investor were to broadly change or withdraw its investments in our ETFs because of a change to its investment strategy, market conditions or any other reason, it may significantly change the amount and mix of our AUM, which may negatively affect our revenues and operating margins.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of products and, as a result, our operating results are particularly exposed to the performance of these funds and our ability to maintain the AUM of these funds, as well as investor sentiment toward investing in the funds' strategies.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 72% of our U.S. listed ETF AUM was concentrated in ten of our WisdomTree ETFs (with approximately 16% in HEDJ and 20% in DXJ). As a result, our operating results are particularly exposed to the performance of these funds and our ability to maintain the AUM of these funds, as well as investor sentiment toward investing in the funds' strategies. If the AUM in these funds were to decline, either because of declining market values or net outflows from these funds, our revenues would be adversely affected.. Much of our AUM is held in ETFs that invest in foreign securities and we therefore have substantial exposure to foreign market conditions and are subject to currency exchange rate risks.. Many of our ETFs invest in securities of companies, governments and other organizations located outside the U.S. and at December 31, 2017, approximately 67% of our AUM was comprised of such investments. Therefore, the success of our business is closely tied to market conditions in foreign markets. Investments in non-U.S. issuers are affected by political, social and economic uncertainty affecting a country or region in which we are invested. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce the revenues we earn from certain foreign invested ETFs. This occurs because an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to non-U.S. currencies may result in a decrease in the dollar value of the AUM in these ETFs, which, in turn, would result in lower revenues. Furthermore, investors are likely to believe certain foreign invested ETFs, as well as certain of our currency and fixed income ETFs, are a less attractive investment opportunity when the value of the U.S. dollar rises relative to non-U.S. currencies, which could have the effect of reducing investments in these ETFs, thus reducing revenues. Conversely, a weakening U.S. dollar may make less attractive our international hedged equity ETFs, as unhedged alternatives would benefit from the appreciation of the foreign currency or currencies while our hedged ETFs would not, which could result in redemptions in our funds. Since a substantial portion of our AUM at December 31, 2017 was held in our international hedged equity ETFs, a weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro or Yen may adversely affect our AUM and revenues.. Many of our WisdomTree ETFs have a limited track record and poor investment performance could cause our revenues to decline.. Many of our ETFs have a limited track record upon which an evaluation of their investment performance can be made. At December 31, 2017, of our total 89 U.S. listed ETFs, 59 had at least a three-year track record, 39 had at least a five-year track record and 27 had at least a ten-year track record. Certain investors limit their investments to ETFs with track records of ten years or more. Furthermore, as part of our strategy, we continuously evaluate our product offerings to ensure that all our funds are useful, compelling and differentiated investment offerings, to more competitively align our overall product line in the current ETF landscape and to reallocate our attention and resources to areas of greater client interest. As a result, we may further adjust our product offerings, which may result in the closing of some of our ETFs, changing their investment objective or offering of new funds. The investment performance of our funds is important to our success. While strong investment performance could stimulate sales of our ETFs, poor investment performance, on an absolute basis or as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products, could lead to a decrease in sales or stimulate redemptions, thereby lowering the AUM and reducing our revenues. Our fundamentally-weighted equity ETFs are designed to provide the potential for better risk-adjusted investment returns over full market cycles and are best suited for investors with a longer-term investment horizon. However, the investment approach of our equity ETFs may not perform well during certain shorter periods of time during different points in the economic cycle.. We could lose our entire investment in AdvisorEngine if it is unable to execute its business plan and successfully grow its business, which would have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We currently have various financial interests in AdvisorEngine valued at $47.0 million, including an aggregate of $25.0 million invested in AdvisorEngine for equity ownership of approximately 47% (or 41% on a fully-diluted basis), $22.0 million advanced in the form of an unsecured note receivable and an option to purchase the remaining equity interests in AdvisorEngine. We also have a commitment to provide an additional $8.0 million of working capital in 2018. As described in Notes 6 and 7 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, our financial interests in AdvisorEngine have been valued and are assessed for impairment quarterly. If AdvisorEngine is unable to execute its business plan and successfully grow its business, we may be required to reduce the value of our financial interests in AdvisorEngine on our financial statements, which would adversely impact our financial results. Furthermore, we could lose our entire financial interest in AdvisorEngine if it is unable to satisfy its obligations as they become due and ceases its operations, which would have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations and may cause a decline in the price of our common stock.. 25. Table of Contents. We currently depend on State Street Bank and Trust Company to provide us with critical administrative services to operate our business and the WisdomTree ETFs. The failure of State Street to adequately provide such services could materially affect our operating business and harm WisdomTree ETF shareholders.. We currently depend upon State Street Bank and Trust Company, or State Street, to provide the WisdomTree Trust with custody services, fund accounting, administration, transfer agency and securities lending services. The failure of State Street to successfully provide us and the WisdomTree ETFs with these services could result in financial loss to us and WisdomTree ETF shareholders. In addition, because State Street provides a multitude of important services to us, changing this vendor relationship would be challenging. It might require us to devote a significant portion of management's time to negotiate a similar relationship with another vendor or have these services provided by multiple vendors, which would require us to coordinate the transfer of these functions to another vendor or vendors.. We primarily depend on BNY Mellon and Voya Investment Management to provide portfolio management services and other third parties to provide many critical services to operate our business and the WisdomTree ETFs. The failure of key vendors to adequately provide such services could materially affect our operating business and harm WisdomTree ETF shareholders.. We depend on third-party vendors to provide us with many services that are critical to operating our business, including BNY Mellon and Voya Investment Management as sub-advisers that provide us with portfolio management services, third-party providers of index calculation services for our indexes, a distributor of the WisdomTree ETFs and a third-party provider of indicative values of the portfolios of the WisdomTree ETFs. The failure of any of these key vendors to provide us and the WisdomTree ETFs with these services could lead to operational issues and result in financial loss to us and WisdomTree ETF shareholders.. The asset management business is intensely competitive. Many of our competitors have greater market share, offer a broader range of products, charge lower fees and have greater financial resources than we do. As a result, we may experience pressures on our pricing and market share.. Our business operates in intensely competitive industry segments. We compete directly with other ETF sponsors and mutual fund companies and indirectly against other investment management firms, insurance companies, banks, brokerage firms and other financial institutions that offer products that have similar features and investment objectives to those offered by us. We compete based on a number of factors, including name recognition, service, investment performance, product features, breadth of product choices and fees. Several ETF sponsors with whom we directly compete are seeking to obtain market share based on low fees. Many of our competitors have greater market share, offer a broader range of products and have greater financial resources than we do. Some financial institutions operate in a more favorable regulatory environment and/or have proprietary products and distribution channels, which may provide certain competitive advantages to them and their investment products. Our competitors may also adopt products, services or strategies similar to ours, including the use of fundamentally-weighted indexes. In addition, over time certain sectors of the financial services industry have become considerably more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. This convergence could result in our competitors gaining greater resources and we may experience pressures on our pricing and market share as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. We believe that competition within the ETF industry will continue to increase as more traditional asset management companies become ETF sponsors.. Competitive pressures could reduce revenues and profit margins.. The ETF industry is becoming significantly more competitive as existing players broaden their suite of products to offer different strategies that are, in some cases, similar to ours. Although the ETF industry currently has a higher barrier to entry as a result of the need for ETF sponsors to obtain exemptive relief from the SEC in order to operate ETFs, traditional asset managers, many of whom are much larger than us, have either already entered or started to enter the ETF space, and some competitors have launched ETFs using either third-party or proprietary fundamentally weighted or factor-based indexes or currency hedged ETFs with fees that are generally equivalent to, and in some instances lower than, our ETFs. We expect that additional companies, both new and traditional asset managers, will continue to enter the ETF space.. There also has been increased price competition in not only commoditized product categories such as traditional, market capitalization weighted index exposures, but also in fundamental or other non-market cap weighted or factor-based exposures. Certain ETF sponsors have been reducing fees, which has been a trend over the last few years that accelerated meaningfully in 2017. Funds are being offered with fees of 20 bps or less, which attracted approximately 70% of the net flows into U.S. listed ETFs during the year ended December 31, 2017. In addition, existing players have broadened their suite of products offering strategies that are, in some cases, similar to ours. Large traditional asset managers are also launching ETFs, some with similar strategies as well.. 26. Table of Contents. In addition, in 2008, the SEC proposed a rule that, if adopted, would eliminate the need to obtain exemptive relief, thereby lowering the barrier to entry. This proposed rule was never adopted, but the SEC staff has recently indicated that the SEC may propose one or more rules in 2018 to streamline and harmonize certain aspects of the exemptive relief process and the SEC is otherwise reviewing the ETF ecosystem of rules, including those related to listing. Any new rules, changes to rules or changes to the current exemptive relief and/or listing processes could create fewer barriers to entry for competitors and/or could impose additional burdens or less flexibility for the WisdomTree ETFs. ETFs that do not meet generic exchange listing standards, which historically included actively managed ETFs, have had to undergo a lengthy exchange listing process, which sometimes takes in excess of a year. However, in 2016, generic listing standards for active ETFs were approved, thereby reducing a barrier to entry for active ETFs that meet the new generic listing standards.. In addition, in December 2014, the SEC granted Eaton Vance and related parties an exemption from certain provisions of the Investment Company Act to permit the offering of a form of non-transparent exchange traded managed funds, and other unaffiliated fund complexes have signed up to launch such funds, with the first funds launching in 2016. In addition, the SEC rejected proposals from Precidian, BlackRock and other large investment management firms to also offer a form of non-transparent exchange traded product. Subsequently, many of these firms have refiled their applications with changes intended to address the SEC's concerns and other fund managers also have filed with the SEC for approval of other types of non-transparent exchange traded products, which could obtain approval in 2018. The launch of non-transparent exchange traded products may allow traditional actively managed mutual fund sponsors to compete more effectively against ETFs, which could reduce our revenues and profit margins.. Our revenues could be adversely affected if the WisdomTree Trust determines that the advisory fees we receive from the WisdomTree ETFs should be reduced.. Our advisory agreements with the WisdomTree Trust and the fees we collect from the WisdomTree ETFs are subject to review and approval by the Independent Trustees of the WisdomTree Trust. The advisory agreements are subject to initial review and approval. After the initial two-year term of the agreement for each ETF, the continuation of such agreement must be reviewed and approved at least annually by a majority of the Independent Trustees. In determining whether to approve the agreements, the Independent Trustees consider factors such as the nature and quality of the services provided by us, the fees charged by us and the costs and profits realized by us in connection with such services, as well as any ancillary or \"fall-out\" benefits from such services, the extent to which economies of scale are shared with the WisdomTree ETFs, and the level of fees paid by other similar funds. If the Independent Trustees determine that the advisory fees we charge to any particular fund are too high, we will need to reduce our fees, which could adversely affect our revenues.. Our risk management policies and procedures, and those of our third-party vendors upon which we rely, may not be fully effective in identifying or mitigating risk exposure, including employee misconduct. If our policies and procedures do not adequately protect us from exposure to these risks, we may incur losses that would adversely affect our financial condition, reputation and market share.. We have developed risk management policies and procedures and we continue to refine them as we conduct our business. Many of our procedures involve oversight of third-party vendors that provide us with critical services such as portfolio management, custody and fund accounting and administration, and index calculation services. Our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure. Moreover, we are subject to the risks of errors and misconduct by our employees, including fraud and non-compliance with policies. These risks are difficult to detect in advance and deter, and could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. Although we maintain insurance and use other traditional risk-shifting tools, such as third-party indemnification, to manage certain exposures, they are subject to terms such as deductibles, coinsurance, limits and policy exclusions, as well as risk of counterparty denial of coverage, default or insolvency. If our policies and procedures do not adequately protect us from exposure and our exposure is not adequately covered by insurance or other risk-shifting tools, we may incur losses that would adversely affect our financial condition and could cause a reduction in our revenues as WisdomTree ETF shareholders shift their investments to the products of our competitors.. Compliance with extensive, complex and changing regulation imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties.. Our business is subject to extensive regulation of our business and operations. Our U.S. subsidiary, WTAM, is a registered investment adviser and is subject to oversight by the SEC pursuant to its regulatory authority under the Investment Advisers Act. We also must comply with certain requirements under the Investment Company Act, with respect to the WisdomTree ETFs for which WTAM acts as investment adviser. WTAM is also a member of the NFA and registered as a commodity pool operator for certain of our ETFs. In addition, one of our other subsidiaries, WisdomTree Commodity Services, LLC, is also a member of the NFA and registered as a commodity pool operator for a commodity ETF that is not registered under the Investment Company Act. As a commodity pool operator, we are subject to oversight by the NFA and the CFTC pursuant to regulatory authority under the Commodity Exchange Act. In addition, the content and use of our marketing and sales materials and of our sales force in the U.S. regarding our U.S. listed ETFs is subject to the regulatory authority of FINRA. We are also subject to foreign laws and regulatory. 27. Table of Contents. authorities with respect to operational aspects of our ETFs that invest in securities of issuers in foreign countries, in the marketing, offer and/or sales of our ETFs in foreign jurisdictions and in our offering of investment products domiciled outside of the U.S., such as our UCITS ETFs, Boost ETPs and Canadian ETFs. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of our business, including the authority to grant, and, in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular businesses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment adviser. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and thus result in redemptions from our ETFs and impede our ability to retain WisdomTree ETF shareholders and develop new WisdomTree ETF shareholders, all of which may reduce our revenues.. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Among other things, we could be fined or be prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect WisdomTree ETF shareholders and our advisory clients, and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through WisdomTree ETF shareholder protection and market conduct requirements.. The regulatory environment in which we operate also is subject to modifications and further regulation. Recently, concerns have been raised about ETFs' possible contribution to market volatility as well as the disclosure requirements applicable to certain types of more complex ETFs. In addition, the SEC recently approved a broad set of reforms regarding data reporting and fund liquidity, which will impose additional expense and require additional administrative services and requirements, among other matters, in seeking to comply with the new rules. In addition, the SEC proposed a broad set of reforms regarding derivatives usage and business continuity that would apply to all registered funds, including ETFs, which may have a negative impact on our existing ETFs (including their operations and/or their performance) and our ability to launch new and innovative ETFs. New laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, applicable to us or investors in the ETFs also may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. Regulatory uncertainty continues to surround the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which represented a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services regulatory environment and requires federal agencies to implement numerous new rules, which, if adopted, may impose additional regulatory burdens and expenses on our business. Compliance with new laws and regulations may result in increased compliance costs and expenses.. Specific regulatory changes also may have a direct impact on our revenues. In addition to regulatory scrutiny and potential fines and sanctions, regulators continue to examine different aspects of the asset management industry. New regulation, revised regulatory or judicial interpretations, revised viewpoints, outcomes of lawsuits against other fund complexes or growth in our ETF assets and/or profitability related to the annual approval process for investment advisory agreements may result in the reduction of fees under these agreements, which would mean a reduction in our revenues.. Our operations outside the U.S. are subject to the laws and regulations of various non-U.S. jurisdictions and non-U.S. regulatory agencies and bodies. As we have expanded our international presence, a number of our subsidiaries and international operations have become subject to regulatory systems, in various jurisdictions, comparable to those covering our operations in the U.S. Regulators in these non-U.S. jurisdictions may have broad authority with respect to the regulation of financial services including, among other things, the authority to grant or cancel required licenses or registrations.. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business.. We believe we have developed a strong brand and a reputation for innovative, thoughtful products, favorable long-term investment performance and excellent client services. The WisdomTree name and brand is a valuable asset and any damage to it could hamper our ability to maintain and grow our AUM and attract and retain employees, thereby having a material adverse effect on our revenues. Risks to our reputation may range from regulatory issues to unsubstantiated accusations. Managing such matters may be expensive, time-consuming and difficult.. Abnormally wide bid/ask spreads and market disruptions that halt or disrupt trading or create extreme volatility could undermine investor confidence in the ETF investment structure and limit investor acceptance of ETFs.. The shares of the WisdomTree ETFs, like the shares of all ETFs, trade on exchanges in market transactions that generally approximate the value of the underlying portfolio of securities held by the particular ETF. Trading involves risks including the potential lack of an active market for fund shares, abnormally wide bid/ask spreads (the difference between the prices at which shares of an ETF can be bought and sold) that can exist for a variety of reasons and losses from trading. These risks can be exacerbated during periods when there is low demand for an ETF, when the markets in the underlying investments are closed, when markets conditions are extremely volatile or when trading is disrupted. This could result in limited growth or a reduction in the overall ETF market and result in our revenues not growing as rapidly as it has in the recent past or even in a reduction of revenues.. 28. Table of Contents. We have agreed to acquire ETFS and expect to continue to consider strategic transactions in the future. Any strategic transactions that we are a party to will result in increased demands on our management and other resources, may be significant in size relative to our assets and operations, result in significant changes in our business and materially and adversely affect our stock price. If we were unable to manage our strategic growth initiatives it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We recently agreed to acquire ETFS and expect to continue to consider strategic transactions that we believe may enable us to strengthen our business, expand and diversify our product offering, increase our AUM or enter into new markets. These developments have placed increased demands on our management and other resources and will continue to do so in the future. We may not be able to manage our operations effectively or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. To do so will require, among other things:. <U+0095>   continuing to retain, motivate and manage our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees;. <U+0095>   developing, implementing and improving our operational, financial, accounting, reporting and other internal systems and controls on a timely basis; and. <U+0095>   maintaining and developing our various support functions including human resources, information technology, legal and corporate communications.. If we are unable to manage these developments effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain or increase revenues and profitability.. Managing strategic growth initiatives will require continued investment in personnel, information technology infrastructure and marketing activities, as well as further development and implementation of financial, operational and compliance systems and controls. We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary. Unless such initiatives result in an increase in our revenues that is at least proportionate to the increase in the costs associated with implementing them, our future profitability will be adversely affected.. In addition, any future strategic transactions may result in the issuance of a significant amount of our common stock or other security that could be dilutive to our stockholders, make substantial borrowings and/or changes in our board composition and/or management team, that constitute a change of control of our Company, lead to significant changes in our product offering, business operations and earning and risk profiles, and/or result in a decline in the price of our common stock.. Our ability to complete future strategic transactions depends upon a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to identify suitable merger or acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and secure financing. Our failure to complete strategic transactions or to integrate and manage acquired or combined businesses successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions.. The uncertainty regarding the potential U.K. exit from the European Union could adversely affect our business.. The referendum held in the U.K. on June 23, 2016 resulted in a determination that the U.K. should exit the European Union, referred to as the \"Brexit.\" Such an exit from the European Union would be unprecedented and it is unclear how the U.K.'s access to the EU Single Market (and vice versa), and the wider trading, legal and regulatory environment in which we operate, would be impacted and how this would affect our business and the global macroeconomic environment. The uncertainty surrounding the terms of the Brexit and its consequences could adversely impact the manner in which we conduct our operations in Europe, investor confidence and result in additional market volatility. It also could adversely affect our business, including our revenues, from either a decrease in the value of our AUM, which would result in lower advisory fees, or from investors in the WisdomTree ETFs selling their shares in favor of investments they perceive as less exposed to the Brexit risks, thus triggering redemptions that would also result in decreased AUM and lower fees.. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to retain or recruit key personnel.. The success of our business, the implementation of our growth strategy and the integration of ETFS if the acquisition is completed, are highly dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled, and sometimes highly specialized, employees, including in particular, operations, product development, research and sales personnel. Our U.S. employees generally may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. The market for these individuals is extremely competitive and is likely to become more so as additional investment management firms enter the ETF industry. Our compensation methods may not enable us to recruit and retain required personnel. For example, price volatility in our common stock may impact our ability to effectively use equity grants as an employee compensation incentive. Also, we may need to increase compensation levels, which would decrease our net income or increase our losses. If we are unable to retain and attract key personnel, it could have an adverse effect on our business, our ability to effectively integrate ETFS, if the acquisition is completed, and our results of operations and financial condition.. 29. Table of Contents. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could make some of our products less attractive to investors.. Many of the WisdomTree ETFs seek to obtain the investment return achieved by our proprietary indexes that weigh index components based upon dividends. Even with the increase a few years ago in income tax rates applicable to dividends, corporate dividends continue to enjoy favorable tax treatment under current U.S. federal income tax law. If the income tax rates imposed on dividends were increased further, it may make these WisdomTree ETFs less attractive to investors.. Our expenses are subject to fluctuations that could materially affect our operating results.. Our results of operations are dependent in part on the level of our expenses, which can vary from quarter to quarter. Our expenses may fluctuate primarily as a result of discretionary spending, including additional headcount, accruals for incentive compensation, marketing, advertising and sales expenses we incur to support our growth initiatives. Accordingly, our results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter.. Any significant limitation or failure of our technology systems, or of our third-party vendors' technology systems, or any security breach of our information and cyber security infrastructure, software applications, technology or other systems that are critical to our operations could interrupt or damage our operations and result in material financial loss, regulatory violations, reputational harm or legal liability.. We are dependent upon the effectiveness of our own, and our vendors', information security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect the technology systems used to operate our business and to protect the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. Although we and our third-party vendors take protective measures to secure information, our and our vendors' technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that could result in inaccuracies in our information or system disruptions or failures, which could materially interrupt or damage our operations. In addition, technology is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced technology platforms for their products, which could affect our business. Any inaccuracies, delays, system failures or breaches, or advancements in technology, and the cost necessary to address them, could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses or result in material financial loss, regulatory violations, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could cause a decline in our earnings or stock price.. We may from time to time in the future be involved in legal proceedings that could require significant management time and attention, possibly resulting in significant expense or in an unfavorable outcome, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. From time to time, we may be subject to litigation. In any litigation in which we are involved, we may be forced to incur costs and expenses to defend ourselves or to pay a settlement or judgment or comply with any injunctions in connection therewith if there is an unfavorable outcome. The expense of defending litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve lawsuits is unpredictable and defending ourselves may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Catastrophic and unpredictable events could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A terrorist attack, war, power failure, cyber-attack, natural disaster or other catastrophic or unpredictable event could adversely affect our revenues, expenses and operating results by: interrupting our normal business operations; inflicting employee casualties, including loss of our key employees; requiring substantial expenditures and expenses to repair, replace and restore normal business operations; and reducing investor confidence. We have a disaster recovery plan to address certain contingencies, but this plan may not be sufficient in responding or ameliorating the effects of all disaster scenarios. Similarly, these types of events could also affect the ability of the third-party vendors that we rely upon to conduct our business, including parties that provide us with sub-advisory portfolio management services, custodial, fund accounting and administration services or index calculation services, to continue to provide these necessary services to us, even though they may also have disaster recovery plans to address these contingencies. In addition, a failure of the stock exchanges on which our ETFs trade to function properly could cause a material disruption to our business. If we or our third-party vendors are unable to respond adequately or in a timely manner, these failures may result in a loss of revenues and/or increased expenses, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. A change of control of our Company would automatically terminate our investment management agreements relating to the WisdomTree ETFs unless the Board of Trustees of the WisdomTree Trust and shareholders of the WisdomTree ETFs voted to continue the agreements. A change in control could occur if a third-party were to acquire a controlling interest in our Company.. Under the Investment Company Act, an investment management agreement with a fund must provide for its automatic termination in the event of its assignment. The fund's board must vote to continue such an agreement following any such assignment and the shareholders of the WisdomTree ETFs must approve the assignment. The cost of obtaining such shareholder approval can be significant and ordinarily would be borne by us. Similarly, under the Investment Advisers Act, a client's investment management agreement may not be \"assigned\" by the investment adviser without the client's consent.. 30. Table of Contents. An investment management agreement is considered under both acts to be assigned to another party when a controlling block of the adviser's securities is transferred. Under both acts, there is a presumption that a stockholder beneficially owning 25% or more of an adviser's voting stock controls the adviser and conversely a stockholder beneficially owning less than 25% is presumed not to control the adviser. In our case, an assignment of our investment management agreements may occur if a third-party were to acquire a controlling interest in our Company. We cannot be certain that the Trustees of the WisdomTree ETFs would consent to assignments of our investment management agreements or approve new agreements with us if a change of control occurs. And even if such approval were obtained, approval from the shareholders of the WisdomTree ETFs would be required to be obtained; such approval could not be guaranteed and even if obtained, likely would result in significant expense. This restriction may discourage potential purchasers from acquiring a controlling interest in our Company.. We may from time to time be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business.. Third parties may assert against us alleged patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to intellectual property that is important to our business. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management from our business. As a result of such intellectual property infringement claims, we could be required or otherwise decide that it is appropriate to:. <U+0095>   pay third-party infringement claims;. <U+0095>   discontinue selling the particular funds subject to infringement claims;. <U+0095>   discontinue using the processes subject to infringement claims;. <U+0095>   develop other intellectual property or products not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible; or. <U+0095>   license the intellectual property from the third-party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms.. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in unexpected expenses, reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results.. We have been issued a patent and have applied for other patents, but additional patents may not be issued to us and we may not be able to enforce or protect our patents and other intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our business.. Although we have a patent and have applied for other patents relating to our index methodology and the operation of our ETFs, these other patents may not be issued to us. In addition, even if issued, our ability to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks. While we have been competing without the benefit of these patents being issued, if they are not issued or we cannot successfully enforce them, we may lose the benefit of a future competitive advantage that they would otherwise provide to us. If we seek to enforce our rights, we could be subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid or is otherwise not enforceable. Furthermore, our assertion of intellectual property rights could result in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own or assert other claims against us, which could harm our business. If we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may be subject to the risks described in the immediately preceding risk factor entitled \"We may from time to time be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business.\". Risks Relating to our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock has been fluctuating significantly and may continue to do so, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. The market price of our common stock has been fluctuating significantly and may continue to do so, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:. <U+0095>   decreases in our AUM;. <U+0095>   variations in our quarterly operating results;. <U+0095>   differences between our actual financial operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;. 31. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry;. <U+0095>   changes in expectations concerning our future financial performance and the future performance of the ETF industry and the asset management industry in general, including financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;. <U+0095>   our strategic moves and those of our competitors, such as acquisitions or consolidations;. <U+0095>   changes in the regulatory framework of the ETF industry and the asset management industry in general and regulatory action, including action by the SEC to lessen the regulatory requirements or shortening the process to obtain regulatory relief under the Investment Company Act that is necessary to become an ETF sponsor;. <U+0095>   the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock;. <U+0095>   changes in general economic or market conditions; and. <U+0095>   realization of any other of the risks described elsewhere in this section.. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, in the past, market fluctuations and price declines in a company's stock have led to securities class action litigations or other derivative stockholder lawsuits. If such a suit were to arise, it could cause substantial costs to us and divert our resources regardless of the outcome.. If equity research analysts issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control the opinions of these analysts. The price and trading volume of our common stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our common stock or if analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business.. Future issuances of our common stock could lower our stock price and dilute the interests of existing stockholders.. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, either in connection with an acquisition, such as our proposed acquisition of ETFS, or for other business reasons. The issuance of a substantial amount of common stock could have the effect of substantially diluting the interests of our current stockholders. In addition, the sale of a substantial amount of common stock in the public market, either in the initial issuance or in a subsequent resale by the target company in an acquisition which received such common stock as consideration or by investors who acquired such common stock in a private placement, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. The members of our Board of Directors, their affiliates and our executive officers, as stockholders, can exert significant influence over our Company.. As of December 31, 2017, the members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, as stockholders, collectively beneficially owned approximately 16.8% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of this ownership, they have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by stockholders of our Company, including the election of directors. This concentration of ownership also may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over current market prices.. Although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to us under Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (i) the material facts relating to the director's or officer's relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our Board of Directors and a majority of our disinterested directors, or a committee consisting solely of disinterested directors, approves the transaction, (ii) the material facts relating to the director's or officer's relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approves the transaction, or (iii) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. Under our certificate of incorporation, representatives of our stockholders are not required to offer to us any transaction opportunity of which they become aware and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is expressly offered to them solely in their capacity as a director of ours. The listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Select Market, upon which our common stock is listed, also require that certain transactions in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest must be considered and approved by our Audit Committee, which consists solely of independent directors.. 32. Table of Contents. A provision in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may prevent or delay an acquisition of our Company, which could decrease the market value of our common stock.. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions may also prevent or delay attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management or members of our Board of Directors. These provisions include:. <U+0095>   a classified Board of Directors;. <U+0095>   limitations on the removal of directors;. <U+0095>   advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations;. <U+0095>   the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings;. <U+0095>   the ability of our Board of Directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and. <U+0095>   the authority of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as our Board of Directors may determine.. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits business combination transactions with stockholders of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock that our Board of Directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if some stockholders may consider the transaction beneficial to them.. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock.. The payment of dividends to our stockholders and our ability to repurchase our common stock is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by our financial condition, our proposed credit agreement, and any applicable laws.. In November 2014, we commenced a quarterly cash dividend and intend to continue to pay regular dividends to our stockholders. In October 2014, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program with a term that was extended through April 27, 2019, under which $88.6 million remained available for repurchases as of December 31, 2017. In connection with our agreement to acquire ETFS, our Board of Directors adjusted the quarterly dividend to $0.03 per share, beginning with the dividend payment in the first quarter of 2018. Under the terms of the credit agreement governing the credit facilities we plan to use to partially finance the acquisition, we will be required to comply with various covenants including a leverage test. A quarterly cash dividend payment in excess of $0.03 per share, as well as share repurchases other than for shares withheld pursuant to the terms of equity awards granted to employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations, will be permitted only to the extent we comply with the leverage test and no event of default (as defined in the credit agreement) has occurred and is continuing at the time the cash dividend payment or share repurchase is made as the case may be. Our Board of Directors may, in its discretion, decrease, but not increase, the level of dividends in the future. Further, our Board of Directors will continue to have the discretion to discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. Any determination as to the payment of dividends or stock repurchases, as well as the level of such dividends or repurchases, will depend on, among other things, general economic and business conditions, our level of AUM, our strategic plans, our financial results and condition, limitations associated with the credit facilities or other agreements that could limit the amount of dividends we are permitted to pay or the stock we may repurchase, and any applicable laws. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient income from our business, we may need to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our common stock or cease repurchasing our common stock. Any change in our stock repurchases or the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect our stock price.. In addition, our Board of Directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with such terms as our Board of Directors may, in its discretion, determine. Our Board of Directors could, therefore, issue preferred stock with dividend rights superior to that of the common stock, which could also limit the payment of dividends on the common stock.. 33. Table of Contents"
