[1] "Item 1A.Risk Factors. Investment in our securities involves risk.  An investor or potential investor should consider the risks summarized in this section when making investment decisions regarding our securities.. Important factors that could individually, or together with one or more other factors, affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows include, but are not limited to, the following:. Company Risks. A significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among a relatively small number of customers.  A decline in business with, or financial distress of, such customers could decrease our consolidated net sales or impair our ability to collect amounts due and payable and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We have fewer customers than many companies with similar sales volumes.  For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, approximately 43% of our consolidated net sales were made to our five largest customers.  Sales to our five largest customers for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016 represented approximately 42% of our consolidated net sales.  Sales to our largest customer, General Electric, accounted for approximately 16% of our consolidated net sales in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, 17% in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016 and 18% in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015.  Accounts receivable from General Electric represented approximately 10% of accounts receivable at September 30, 2017 and 14% at September 30, 2016.  Sales to our next largest customer accounted for approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, 8% in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016, and 7% in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015.  If any of our significant customers were to change suppliers, in-source production, institute significant restructuring or cost-cutting measures, or experience financial distress, these significant customers may substantially reduce, or otherwise be unable to pay for, purchases from us.  Accordingly, our consolidated net sales could decrease significantly or we may experience difficulty collecting, or be unable to collect, amounts due and payable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Instability in the financial markets and global or regional economic weakness or uncertainty could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our customers to perform their obligations to us and on their demand for our products and services.. Over the last six to eight years, there has been widespread concern over the instability in the financial markets and their influence on the global economy.  As a result of the extreme volatility in the credit and capital markets and global economic uncertainty, our current or potential customers may experience cash flow problems and, as a result, may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products.  Additionally, if our customers face financial distress or are unable to secure necessary financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us.  Any inability of current or potential customers to pay us for our products may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows.. In addition, the general economic environment significantly affects demand for our products and services.  Periods of slowing economic activity, for example the global industrial recession currently impacting many of our markets, may cause global or regional slowdowns in spending on infrastructure development in the markets in which we operate, and customers may reduce their purchases of our products and services.  In addition, weakness or uncertainty in any of our global markets, such as economic uncertainty in China, may materially adversely affect one or more areas of our business.. There can be no assurance that any market and economic uncertainty in the United States or internationally would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our profitability may suffer if we are unable to manage our expenses due to sales increases, sales decreases, or impacts of capital expansion projects, or if we experience change in product mix.. Some of our expenses are relatively fixed in relation to changes in sales volume and are difficult to adjust in the short term.  Expenses driven by business activity other than sales level and other long-term expenditures, such as fixed manufacturing overhead, capital expenditures and research and development costs, may be difficult to reduce in a timely manner in response to a reduction in sales.  Expenses such as depreciation or amortization, which are the result of past capital expenditures or business acquisitions, are generally fixed regardless of sales levels.  In addition, the achievement of manufacturing efficiencies associated with capital expansion projects may not meet management's current expectations.  Due to our long sales cycle, in periods of sales increases it may be difficult to rapidly increase our production of finished goods, particularly if such sales increases are unanticipated.  An increase in the production of our finished goods requires increases in both the purchases of raw materials and components and in the size of our workforce.  If a sudden, unanticipated need for raw materials, components and labor arises in order to meet unexpected sales demand, we could experience difficulties in sourcing raw materials, components and labor at a favorable cost or to meet our production needs.  These factors could result in delays in fulfilling customer sales contracts, damage to our reputation and relationships with our. 12. customers, an inability to meet the demands of the markets that we serve, which in turn could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities or responding to competitive pressures, and result in an increase in variable and fixed costs leading to a decrease in net earnings or even net losses.  In addition, we sell products that have varying profit margins, and increases or decreases in sales of our various products may change the mix of products that we sell during any period.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The long sales cycle, customer evaluation process and implementation period of our products and services may increase the costs of obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of sales cycles and our inventory requirements.. Our products and services are technologically complex.  Prospective customers generally must commit significant resources to test and evaluate our products and to install and integrate them into larger systems.  Orders expected in one quarter may shift to another quarter or be cancelled with little advance notice as a result of customers' budgetary constraints, internal acceptance reviews and other factors affecting the timing of customers' purchase decisions.  In addition, customers often require a significant number of product presentations and demonstrations before reaching a sufficient level of confidence in the product's performance and compatibility with the approvals that typically accompany capital expenditure approval processes.  The difficulty in forecasting demand increases the challenge in anticipating sales cycles and our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods and could result in inventory write-offs, or could cause us to under-produce finished goods.  Any such over-production or under-production could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our product development activities may not be successful, may be more costly than currently anticipated, or we may not be able to produce newly developed products at a cost that meets the anticipated product cost structure.. Our business involves a significant level of product development activities, generally in connection with our customers' development activities.  Industry standards, customer expectations, or other products may emerge that could render one or more of our products or services less desirable or obsolete.  Maintaining our market position requires continued investment in research and development.  During an economic downturn or a subsequent recovery, we may need to maintain our investment in research and development, which may limit our ability to reduce these expenses in proportion to a sales shortfall.  In addition, increased investments in research and development may divert resources from other potential investments in our business, such as acquisitions or investments in our facilities, processes and operations.  If these activities are not as successful as currently anticipated, are not completed on a timely basis, or are more costly than currently anticipated, or if we are not able to produce newly developed products at a cost that meets the anticipated product cost structure, then our future sales, margins and/or earnings could be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our business may be adversely affected by government contracting risks.. Sales made directly to U.S. Government agencies and entities were 5% of total net sales during fiscal year 2017, 5% during fiscal year 2016, and 5% during fiscal year 2015, primarily in the aerospace market.  Sales made directly to U.S. Government agencies and entities, or indirectly through third party manufacturers, such as tier-one prime contractors, utilizing Woodward parts and subassemblies, accounted for approximately 23% of total sales in fiscal year 2017, 21% in fiscal year 2016, and 18% in fiscal year 2015.  Our contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to certain unique risks, including the risks set forth below, some of which are beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe level of U.S. defense spending is subject to periodic congressional appropriation actions and is subject to change at any time.  The mix of programs to which such funding is allocated is also uncertain, and we can provide no assurance that an increase in defense spending will be allocated to programs that would benefit our business.  If the amount of spending were to decrease, or there were a shift from certain aerospace and defense programs on which we have content to other programs on which we do not, our sales could decrease.  In addition, one or more of the aerospace or defense programs that we currently support could be phased-out or terminated.  Any such reductions in U.S. Government needs under these existing aerospace and defense programs, unless offset by other aerospace and defense programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our sales..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur U.S. Government contracts and the U.S. Government contracts of our customers are subject to modification, curtailment or termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default as a result of a failure by us or our customers to perform under the applicable contract.  If any of our contracts are terminated by the U.S. Government, our backlog would be reduced, in accordance with contract terms, by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts.  In addition, we are not the prime contractor on most of our contracts for supply to the U.S. Government, and the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe must comply with procurement laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of our U.S. Government contracts and the U.S. Government contracts of our customers.  The U.S. Government may change procurement laws and regulations from time to time.  A violation of U.S. Government procurement laws or regulations, a change in U.S. Government procurement laws and regulations, or a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability, debarment, or suspension and could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders.. 13.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe are subject to government inquiries, audits and investigations due to our business relationships with the U.S. Government and the heavily regulated industries in which we do business.  In addition, our contract costs are subject to audits by the U.S. Government.  U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Defense Contract Management Agency, routinely audit government contractors and subcontractors.  These agencies review our performance under contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of and our compliance with our internal control systems and policies.  Any costs found to be misclassified or inaccurately allocated to a specific contract would be deemed non-reimbursable, and to the extent already reimbursed, would be refunded.  Any inadequacies in our systems and policies could result in withholds on billed receivables, penalties and reduced future business.  Any inquiries or investigations, including those related to our contract pricing, could potentially result in civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, suspension, and/or debarment from participating in future business opportunities with the U.S. Government.  Such actions could harm our reputation, even if such allegations are later determined to be unfounded, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Product liability claims, product recalls or other liabilities associated with the products and services we provide may force us to pay substantial damage awards and other expenses that could exceed our accruals and insurance coverage.. The manufacture and sale of our products and the services we provide expose us to risks of product and other tort claims, and any resulting liability.  We currently have and have had in the past product liability claims relating to our products, and we will likely be subject to additional product liability claims in the future for past, current and future products.  Some of these claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We also provide certain services to our customers and are subject to claims with respect to the services provided.  In providing such services, we may rely on subcontractors to perform all or a portion of the contracted services.  It is possible that we could be liable to our customers for work performed by a subcontractor.  Regardless of the outcome, product liability claims can be expensive to defend, can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, and can cause reputational damage.  While we believe that we have appropriate insurance coverage available to us related to any such claims, our insurance may not cover all liabilities or be available in the future at a cost acceptable to us.  An unsuccessful result in connection with a product liability claim, where the liabilities are not covered by insurance or for which indemnification or other recovery is not available, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Suppliers may be unable to provide us with materials of sufficient quality or quantity required to meet our production needs at favorable prices or at all.. We are dependent upon suppliers for parts and raw materials used in the manufacture of components that we sell to our customers, and our raw material costs are subject to commodity market fluctuations.  We may experience an increase in costs for parts or raw materials that we source from our suppliers, or we may experience a shortage of parts or raw materials for various reasons, such as the loss of a significant supplier, high overall demand creating shortages in parts and supplies we use, financial distress, work stoppages, natural disasters, fluctuations in commodity prices, or production or distribution difficulties that may affect one or more of our suppliers.  In particular, current or future global economic uncertainty may affect the financial stability of our key suppliers or their access to financing, which may in turn affect their ability to perform their obligations to us.  Our customers rely on us to provide on-time delivery and have certain rights if our delivery standards are not maintained.  A significant increase in our supply costs, including for raw materials that are subject to commodity price fluctuations, or a protracted interruption of supplies for any reason, could result in the delay of one or more of our customer contracts or could damage our reputation and relationships with customers.  In addition, quality and sourcing issues that our suppliers may experience can also adversely affect the quality and effectiveness of our products and services and may result in liability or reputational harm to us.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Subcontractors may fail to perform contractual obligations, which would adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations to our customers.. We frequently subcontract portions of work due under contracts with our customers and are dependent on the continued availability and satisfactory performance by these subcontractors.  Nonperformance or underperformance by subcontractors could materially impact our ability to perform obligations to our customers.  A subcontractor's failure to perform could result in a customer terminating our contract for default, expose us to liability, substantially impair our ability to compete for future contracts and orders, and limit our ability to enforce fully all of our rights under these agreements, including any rights to indemnification.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We have engaged in restructuring and alignment activities from time to time and may need to implement further restructurings or alignments in the future, and there can be no assurance that our restructuring or alignment efforts will have the intended effects.. From time to time, we have responded to changes in our industry and the markets we serve, or other changes in our business, by restructuring or aligning our operations.  Our restructuring activities have included workforce management and other restructuring charges related to acquired businesses, including, among others, changes associated with integrating similar operations, managing our. 14. workforce, vacating or consolidating certain facilities and cancelling certain contracts.  Due to cost reduction measures or changes in the industry and markets in which we compete, we may decide to implement restructuring or alignment activities in the future, such as closing plants, moving production lines, or making additions, reductions or other changes to our management or workforce.  These restructuring and/or alignment activities generally result in charges and expenditures that may adversely affect our financial results for one or more periods.. Restructuring and/or alignment activities can create unanticipated consequences, such as instability or distraction among our workforce, and we cannot be sure that any restructuring or alignment efforts that we undertake will be successful.  A variety of risks could cause us not to realize expected cost savings, including, among others, the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thigher than expected severance costs related to staff reductions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thigher than expected retention costs for employees that will be retained;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thigher costs to hire new employees or delays or difficulty hiring the employees needed;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thigher than expected stand-alone overhead expenses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost-saving plan; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother unexpected costs associated with operating the business.. If we are unable to structure our operations in the light of evolving market conditions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Consolidation in the aerospace market and our participation in a strategic joint venture with GE may make it more difficult to secure long-term sales in certain aerospace markets.. In January 2016, Woodward and General Electric Company (\"GE\"), acting through its GE Aviation business unit, consummated the formation of a strategic joint venture between Woodward and GE (the \"JV\").  The JV agreement does not restrict Woodward from entering into any market, however, consolidation in the aircraft engine market is increasingly prevalent, resulting in fewer engine manufacturers, and thus it may become more difficult for Woodward to secure new business with GE competitors on similar product applications both within and outside the specific JV market space.  Additionally, if GE fails to win new content in the market space covered by the JV, Woodward may be prevented from expanding content on future commercial aircraft engines in those markets.. We may not be able to obtain financing, on acceptable terms or at all, to implement our business plans, complete acquisitions, or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures.. During the last several years, global financial markets, including the credit and debt and equity capital markets, and economic conditions have been volatile.  These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk, and the global economic uncertainty, have in the past made, and may in the future make, it difficult to obtain financing.  In addition, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors have or may increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt at maturity either at all or on terms similar to existing debt, and reduce and, in some cases, cease to provide financing to borrowers.  Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that financing, to the extent needed, will be available on acceptable terms or at all.  If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unacceptable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans, complete acquisitions, fund significant capital expenditures, or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our debt obligations and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our debt could limit our ability to operate our business or pursue our business strategies, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, and could significantly reduce stockholder benefits from a change of control event.. As of September 30, 2017, our total debt was $614,680, excluding unamortized debt issuance costs and including $32,600 of borrowings on our revolving credit facility, of which all was classified as current, $393,000 in unsecured notes denominated in U.S. dollars issued in private placements, and $189,080 of unsecured notes denominated in Euros issued in private placements.  Our debt obligations could require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts and mergers and acquisitions.  We are contractually obligated under the agreements governing our long-term debt to make principal payments of $0 in fiscal year 2018, $143,000 in fiscal year 2019, $0 in fiscal year 2020, $100,000 in fiscal year 2021, $0 in fiscal year 2022, and the remaining $339,080 is due in subsequent fiscal years.  Interest on our long-term notes is payable semi-annually, with the exception of the Series J Notes which is payable quarterly, each year until all principal is paid.  Our debt obligations could make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate, thereby placing us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have less indebtedness.. Our existing revolving credit facility and note purchase agreements impose financial covenants on us and our subsidiaries that require us to maintain certain leverage ratios and minimum levels of consolidated net worth.  Certain of these agreements require us to repay outstanding borrowings with portions of the proceeds we receive from certain sales of property or assets and specified future debt offerings.. 15. These financial covenants place certain restrictions on our business that may affect our ability to execute our business strategy successfully or take other actions that we believe would be in the best interests of our Company.  These restrictions include limitations or restrictions, among other things, on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional indebtedness;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or certain other restricted payments or investments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpurchase or redeem stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissue stock of our subsidiaries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake domestic and foreign investments and extend credit;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tengage in transactions with affiliates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttransfer and sell assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teffect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate liens on our assets to secure debt.. These agreements contain certain customary events of default, including certain cross-default provisions related to other outstanding debt arrangements.  Any breach of the covenants under these agreements or other event of default could cause a default under these agreements and/or a cross-default under our other debt arrangements, which could restrict our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.  If there were an event of default under certain provisions of our debt arrangements that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt may be able to cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt instrument, plus any required settlement costs, to be due and payable immediately.  Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default.  If we are unable to repay, refinance, or restructure our indebtedness as required, or amend the covenants contained in these agreements, the lenders or note holders may be entitled to obtain a lien or institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The Company, at its option, is permitted at any time to prepay all or any part of the then-outstanding principal amount of any series of our private placement notes, together with interest accrued on such amount to be prepaid to the date of prepayment, plus any applicable prepayment compensation amount.  The prepayment compensation amount for the Euro denominated private placement notes includes any net gain or loss realized by the lenders on swap transactions entered into by the lenders under which the lenders would receive payment in U.S. dollars in exchange for scheduled Euro payments of principal and interest on the Euro denominated private placement notes by the Company to the lenders, adjusted for theoretical lender returns foregone on hypothetical reinvestments in U.S. Treasury securities.  However, in the case of an event of default as defined in the loan documents, including a change in control event, the prepayment compensation amount will not be less than zero.  Depending on the movement of foreign exchange rates over the terms of the Euro denominated private placement notes, such payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and could significantly reduce stockholder benefits from a change of control event.. Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability.. Approximately 24%, in fiscal year 2017, and 23%, in fiscal year 2016, of our earnings before income taxes was earned in jurisdictions outside the United States.  Accordingly, we are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various non-U.S. jurisdictions.  Our tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution mix of operating income among these different jurisdictions.  Our tax expense includes estimates of additional tax that may be incurred and reflects various estimates, projections, and assumptions that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities.  Our future operating results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate, which could be caused by, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in our overall profitability;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in tax legislation and tax rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in tax incentives;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in U.S. GAAP;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the projected realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in management's assessment of the amount of earnings indefinitely reinvested offshore; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales to countries outside the United States and purchase raw materials and components from suppliers outside of the United States; therefore, we are subject to the risks inherent in doing business in other countries.. In 2017, approximately 42% of our total sales were made to customers in jurisdictions outside of the United States (including products manufactured in the United States and sold outside the United States as well as products manufactured in international locations), including approximately 10% of our total sales to Brazil, Russia, India and China, known as the \"BRIC\" countries.  We also purchase raw materials and components from suppliers outside the United States.. 16. Accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in foreign exchange rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitations on repatriation of earnings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttransportation delays and interruptions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpolitical, social and economic instability and disruptions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgovernment embargos or trade restrictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timport and export controls;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in labor conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in regulatory environments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe potential for nationalization of enterprises;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitations on the Company's ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, including protection of intellectual property;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacts of terrorism or war;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotentially adverse tax consequences; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely basis.. We are also subject to U.S. laws prohibiting companies from doing business in certain countries, or restricting the type of business that may be conducted in these countries.  The cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations governing various matters worldwide, including foreign investment, employment, import, export, business acquisitions, environmental and taxation matters, land use rights, property, and other matters, can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins.  We must also comply with restrictions on exports imposed under the U.S. Export Control Laws and Sanctions Programs.  These laws and regulations change from time to time and may restrict foreign sales.. In 2017, approximately 5% of our total sales were recorded in the Peoples' Republic of China (\"China\") and we have operations in China.  Certain of our independent registered public accounting firm's audit documentation related to their audit report included in this annual report may be located in the China.  The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (\"PCAOB\") currently cannot inspect audit documentation located in China and, as such, prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audit work of any auditors that was performed in China, including that performed by our independent auditors in China.  As a result, investors may be deprived of the full benefits of PCAOB oversight of our global audits via their inspections.  The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of audit work performed in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our Chinese independent auditor's audit procedures as compared to auditors in other jurisdictions that are subject to PCAOB inspections on all of their work.. Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar.  These exposures may change over time as our business and business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows.  An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in U.S. dollars, and a weakened U.S. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies.  Foreign currency exchange rate risk is reduced through several means, including the maintenance of local production facilities in the markets served, invoicing of customers in the same currency as the source of the products, and prompt settlement of inter-company balances utilizing a global netting system.  While we monitor our exchange rate exposures and seek to reduce the risk of volatility, our actions may not be successful in significantly mitigating such volatility.. Of the $87,552 of cash and cash equivalents held at September 30, 2017, $87,383 was held by our foreign locations.  We are not presently aware of any significant restrictions on the repatriation of these funds, although a portion is considered indefinitely reinvested in these foreign subsidiaries.  If these funds were needed to fund our operations or satisfy obligations in the United States, then they could be repatriated and their repatriation into the United States may cause us to incur additional U.S. income taxes or foreign withholding taxes.  Any additional U.S. taxes could be offset, in whole or in part, by foreign tax credits.  The amount of such taxes and application of tax credits would be dependent on the income tax laws and other circumstances at the time these amounts are repatriated.  Based on these variables, it is impractical to determine the income tax liability that might be incurred if these funds were to be repatriated.. In addition, uncertain global economic conditions arising from circumstances such as slowing growth in emerging regions could result in reduced customer confidence and decreased demand for our products and services, disruption in payment patterns and higher default rates, a tightening of credit markets, increased risk regarding supplier performance, increased counterparty risk with respect to the financial institutions with which we do business, and exchange rate fluctuations.  While we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to the financial institutions with whom we transact business could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. 17. Political and economic uncertainty in the European Union could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Credit rating downgrades in certain European countries and/or speculation regarding changes to the composition or viability of the European Union (\"EU\") create uncertain global economic conditions.  On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (\"UK\") voted to leave the EU.  The UK's voluntary exit from the EU, generally referred to as the \"Brexit,\" triggered short-term financial volatility, including a decline in the value of the Great Britain Pound (\"GBP\") in comparison to both the U.S. dollar (\"USD\") and the European Union countries' Euro (\"EUR\").  In addition, a process of negotiation will be required to determine the future terms of the UK's relationship with the EU, and the legal and regulatory framework that will be applicable in the UK may change.  This uncertainty before, during and after the period of negotiation could have a negative economic impact and result in further volatility in the markets for several years.  The impact of the Brexit referendum and such ongoing uncertainty may result in various economic and financial consequences for businesses operating in the UK, the EU and beyond.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from non-U.S. sales and are subject to the risks inherent in doing business in other countries, including the UK.  During fiscal year 2017, approximately 3% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in the UK through both our Aerospace and our Industrial reportable segments.  Approximately 23% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in Europe overall.  Woodward and its various subsidiaries hold financial assets and liabilities denominated in GBP and EUR, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, postretirement defined benefit pension plan assets and liabilities, and accounts payable, and the future impacts of the Brexit and the continued uncertainty surrounding the EU could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in the estimates of fair value of reporting units or of long-lived assets, particularly goodwill, may result in future impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Over time, the fair values of long-lived assets change.  At September 30, 2017, we had $556,545 of goodwill, representing 20% of our total assets.  We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis and more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount.  Based on the relevant U.S. GAAP authoritative guidance, we aggregate components of a single operating segment into a reporting unit, if appropriate.  Future goodwill impairment charges may occur if estimates of fair values decrease, which would reduce future earnings.  We also test property, plant, and equipment and other intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.  Future asset impairment charges may occur if asset utilization declines, if customer demand decreases, or for a number of other reasons, which would reduce future earnings.  Any such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.  Impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated stockholders' equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our credit rating and access to the debt and equity markets.. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of July 31, 2017 for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 during the fourth quarter.  In performing the annual goodwill impairment test, we determined it was appropriate to aggregate certain components of the same operating segment into a single reporting unit.  The identification of reporting units and consideration of aggregation criteria requires management's judgment.  Further, we use the income approach based on a discounted cash flow method that incorporates various estimates and assumptions.  The results of our fiscal year 2017 annual goodwill impairment test performed as of July 31, 2017 indicated the estimated fair values of each of our reporting units were in excess of their carrying amounts, and accordingly, no impairment existed.  There can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions of the fair value of our reporting units, the current economic environment, or the other inputs used in forecasting the present value of forecasted cash flows used to estimate the fair value of our reporting units will prove to be accurate projections of future performance, and any material error in our estimates and assumptions, could result in us needing to take a material impairment charge, which would have the effects discussed above.. As part of our ongoing monitoring efforts, we will continue to consider the global economic environment and its potential impact on our businesses, as well as other factors, in assessing goodwill and long-lived assets for possible indications of impairment.. Our manufacturing activities may result in future environmental costs or liabilities.. We use hazardous materials and/or regulated materials in our manufacturing operations.  We also own, operate, and may acquire facilities that were formerly owned and operated by others that used such materials.  The risk that a significant release of regulated materials has occurred in the past or will occur in the future cannot be completely eliminated or prevented.  As a result, we are subject to a substantial number of costly regulations.  In particular, we are required to comply with increasingly stringent requirements of federal, state, and local environmental, occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the United States, the European Union, and other territories, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, noise and odor emissions, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, and the cleanup of contaminated properties and human health and safety.  Compliance with these laws and regulations results in ongoing costs.  We cannot be certain that we have been, or will at all times be, in complete compliance with all environmental requirements, or that we will not incur additional material costs or. 18. liabilities in connection with these requirements.  In addition, we may be exposed to other environmental costs such as participation in superfund sites or other similar jurisdictional initiatives.. As a result, we may incur material costs or liabilities or be required to undertake future environmental remediation activities that could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our financial and operating performance depends on continued access to a stable workforce and on favorable labor relations with our employees.. Certain of our operations in the United States and internationally involve different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works' councils.  In addition, approximately 22% of our workforce in the United States is unionized, and is expected to remain unionized for the foreseeable future.  Competition for technical personnel in the industries in which we compete is intense.  Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, train, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel.  There is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in recruiting qualified employees in the future.  Further, we periodically need to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, and any failure to negotiate new agreements or extensions in a timely manner could result in work stoppages or slowdowns.  Any significant increases in labor costs, deterioration of employee relations, including any conflicts with works' councils or unions, or slowdowns or work stoppages at any of our locations, whether due to employee turnover, changes in availability of qualified technical personnel, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our relationships with customers, and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our operations and suppliers may be subject to physical and other risks, including natural disasters that could disrupt production and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations include principal facilities in the United States, China, Germany, and Poland. In addition, we operate sales and service facilities in Brazil, Bulgaria, India, Japan, the Netherlands, the Republic of Korea and the United Kingdom. We also have suppliers for materials and parts inside and outside the United States. Our operations and sources of supply could be disrupted by unforeseen events, including fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather in countries in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located, any of which could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.  Natural disasters, public health concerns, war, political unrest, terrorist activity, equipment failures, power outages, or other unforeseen events could result in physical damage to, and complete or partial closure of, one or more of our manufacturing facilities, or could cause temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of component products from some local and international suppliers, disruption in the transport of our products and significant delays in the shipment of products and the provision of services, which could in turn cause the loss of sales and customers.  Existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for all of the costs that may arise from such events.  Accordingly, disruption of our operations or the operations of a significant supplier could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to protect all our products or technologies.. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets and know-how, and prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights.  Some of our intellectual property is not covered by patents (or patent applications) and includes trade secrets and other know-how that is not patentable or for which we have elected not to seek patent protection, including intellectual property relating to our manufacturing processes and engineering designs.  We will be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, trademarks, licenses or other valid intellectual property rights.  Patent protection generally involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability of patent rights cannot be predicted with certainty; thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not provide us with adequate protection against competitors.  Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.  Additionally, our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patent and other proprietary rights of others.  Our current or future technologies may, regardless of our intent, infringe upon the patents or violate other proprietary rights of third parties.  In the event of such infringement or violation, we may face expensive litigation or indemnification obligations and may be prevented from selling existing products and pursuing product development or commercialization.  If we are unable to sufficiently protect our patent and other proprietary rights or if we infringe on the patent or proprietary rights of others, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Amounts accrued for contingencies may be inadequate to cover the amount of loss when the matters are ultimately resolved.. In addition to intellectual property and product liability matters, we are currently involved or may become involved in claims, pending or threatened litigation or other legal proceedings, investigations or regulatory proceedings regarding employment or other regulatory, legal, or contractual matters arising in the ordinary course of business.  There is no certainty that the results of these matters will be favorable to the Company.  We accrue for known individual matters if we believe it is probable that the matter will result in a loss when ultimately resolved using estimates of the most likely amount of loss.  There may be additional losses that have not been accrued, or liabilities may exceed our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. 19. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws and regulations.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar anti-bribery laws and regulations in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper business advantage.  Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws.  However, we operate in many parts of the world and sell to industries that have experienced corruption to some degree.  If we are found to be liable for FCPA or other similar anti-bribery law or regulatory violations, whether due to our or others' actions or inadvertence, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our net postretirement benefit obligation liabilities may increase, and the fair value of our pension plan assets may decrease, which could require us to make additional and/or unexpected cash contributions to our pension plans, increase the amount of postretirement benefit expenses, affect our liquidity or affect our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding debt arrangements.. Accounting for retirement, pension and postretirement benefit obligations and related expense requires the use of assumptions, including a weighted-average discount rate, an expected long-term rate of return on assets, a net healthcare cost trend rate, and projected mortality rates, among others.  Benefit obligations and benefit costs are sensitive to changes in these assumptions.  As a result, assumption changes could result in increases in our obligation amounts and expenses.  If interest rates decline, the present value of our postretirement benefit plan liabilities may increase faster than the value of plan assets, resulting in significantly higher unfunded positions in some of our pension plans.  As of September 30, 2017, we had $224,712 in invested pension plan assets.  Investment losses may result in decreases to our pension plan assets.. Funding estimates are based on certain assumptions, including discount rates, interest rates, mortality, fair value of assets and expected return on plan assets and are subject to changes in government regulations in the countries in which our employees work.  Volatility in the financial markets may impact future discount and interest rate assumptions.  Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases or decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets.  Also, new accounting standards on fair value measurement may impact the calculation of future funding levels.  We periodically review our assumptions, and any such revision can significantly change the present value of future benefits, and in turn, the funded status of our pension plans and the resulting periodic pension expense.  Changes in our pension benefit obligations and the related net periodic costs or credits may occur as a result of variances of actual results from our assumptions, and we may be required to make additional cash contributions in the future beyond those which have been estimated.. In addition, our existing revolving credit facility and note purchase agreements contain continuing covenants and events of default regarding our pension plans, including provisions regarding the unfunded liabilities related to those pension plans.  See the discussion above concerning \"Our debt obligations and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our debt could limit our ability to operate our business or pursue our business strategies, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.\". To the extent that the present values of benefits incurred for pension obligations are greater than values of the assets supporting those obligations or if we are required to make additional or unexpected contributions to our pension plans for any reason, our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding debt arrangements, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be adversely affected.. Our business operations may be adversely affected by information systems interruptions or intrusion.. We are dependent on various information systems throughout our company to administer, store and support multiple business activities.  If these systems are damaged, cease to function properly or are subject to cybersecurity attacks, such as unauthorized access, malicious software and other violations, we could experience production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.  While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including technical security controls, employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats.. Our financial statements are subject to changes in accounting standards that could adversely impact our profitability or financial position.. Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which are periodically revised and/or expanded.  Accordingly, from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board.  Recently, accounting standard setters issued new guidance which further. 20. interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to revenue recognition and lease accounting as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures.  The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.  An assessment of proposed standards is not provided, as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, their effects on our financial statements cannot be fully assessed at this time.  It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position.  Additionally, any inability by the Company to timely and properly implement such changes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely file future financial statements upon adoption of, and in accordance with, such new accounting standards, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively affect our share price.. Industry Risks. Unforeseen events may occur that significantly reduce commercial aviation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant portion of our business is related to commercial aviation.  Global economic downturn and uncertainty in the marketplace typically lead to a general reduction in demand for air transportation services, leading some airlines to withdraw aircraft from service, which negatively affects sales of our aerospace components and services.  These economic conditions can similarly affect our sales of systems and components for new business jet aircraft.  The commercial airline industry tends to be cyclical and capital spending by airlines and aircraft manufacturers may be influenced by a variety of factors, including current and future traffic levels, aircraft fuel pricing, labor issues, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, worldwide airline profits and backlog levels.  In the event these or other economic indicators stagnate or worsen, market demand for our components and systems could be negatively affected by renewed reductions in demand for air transportation services or commercial airlines' financial difficulties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The U.S. Government may change acquisition priorities and/or reduce spending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The U.S. Government participates in a wide variety of operations, including homeland defense, counterinsurgency, counterterrorism, and other defense-related operations that employ our products and services.  U.S. defense spending has historically been cyclical in nature, and defense budgets tend to rise when perceived threats to national security increase the level of concern over the country's safety.  The U.S. Government continues to adjust its funding priorities in response to changes in the perceived threat environment, the political environment, and changes in budgetary priorities.  In addition, defense spending currently faces pressures due to the overall economic and political environment, budget deficits, and competing budget priorities.  A decrease in U.S. Government defense spending or changes in the spending allocation could result in one or more of our programs being reduced, delayed, or terminated.. Shifts in domestic and international spending and tax policy, changes in security, defense, and intelligence priorities, changes in government budget appropriations, general and political economic conditions and developments, and other factors may affect a decision to fund, or the level of funding for, existing or proposed programs.  If the priorities of the U.S. Government change and/or defense spending is reduced, this may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Increasing emission standards that drive certain product sales may be eased or delayed, which could reduce our competitive advantage.. We sell components and systems that have been designed to meet strict emission standards, including standards that have not yet been implemented but are expected to be implemented soon.  If these emission standards are eased, developed products may become unnecessary and/or our future sales could be lower as potential customers select alternative products or delay adoption of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Natural gas prices may increase significantly and disproportionately to other sources of fuels used for power generation, which could reduce our sales and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Commercial producers of electricity use many of our components and systems, most predominately in their power plants that use natural gas as their fuel source.  Commercial producers of electricity are often in a position to manage the use of different power plant facilities and make decisions based on operating costs.  Compared to other sources of fuels used for power generation, natural gas prices have increased slower than fuel oil, but about the same as coal.  This increase in natural gas prices and any future increases, whether in absolute dollars or relative to other fuel costs such as oil, could impact the sales mix of our components and systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. 21. Long-term reduced commodity prices for oil, natural gas, and other minerals may depress the markets for certain of our products and services, particularly those from our Industrial segment.. Many of our Industrial segment OEM and aftermarket customers and our Aerospace segment rotorcraft product lines' customers provide goods and services that support various industrial extraction activities, including mining, oil and gas exploration and extraction, and transportation of raw materials from extraction sites to refineries and/or processing facilities.  Long-term lower prices for commodities such as oil, natural gas, gold, tin, and various other minerals could reduce exploration activities and place downward pressure on demand for our goods and services that support exploration and extraction activities.. Changes in government subsidy programs and regulatory requirements may result in decreased demand for our products.. The U.S. Government, as well as various foreign governments, provide for various stimulus programs or subsidies, such as grants, loan guarantees and tax incentives, relating to renewable energy, alternative energy, energy efficiency and electric power infrastructure.  Some of these programs have expired, which may affect the economic feasibility or timing of future projects.  Additionally, while a significant amount of stimulus funds and subsidies are available to support various projects, we cannot predict the timing and scope of any investments to be made by our customers under stimulus funding and subsidies or whether stimulus funding and subsidies will result in increased demand for our products.  Investments for renewable energy, alternative energy and electric power infrastructure under stimulus programs and subsidies may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, any of which would negatively impact demand for our products.. Other current and potential regulatory initiatives may not result in increased demand for our products.  It is not certain whether existing regulatory requirements will create sufficient incentives for new projects, when or if proposed regulatory requirements will be enacted, or whether any potentially beneficial provisions will be included in the regulatory requirement.. Uncertainty with respect to government subsidy programs and regulatory requirements could cause decreased demand for our products as investments are delayed or become economically unfeasible, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and, if we are unable to compete effectively in one or more of our markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We face intense competition from a number of established competitors in the United States and abroad, some of which are larger in size or are divisions of large diversified companies with substantially greater financial resources.  In addition, global competition continues to increase.  Companies compete on the basis of providing products that meet the needs of customers, as well as on the basis of price, quality, and customer service.  Changes in competitive conditions, including the availability of new products and services, the introduction of new channels of distribution, and changes in OEM and aftermarket pricing, could impact our relationships with our customers and may adversely affect future sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Further, the markets in which we operate experience rapidly changing technologies and frequent introductions of new products and services.  The technological expertise we have developed and maintained could become less valuable if a competitor were to develop a breakthrough technology that would allow it to match or exceed the performance of existing technologies at a lower cost.  If we are unable to develop competitive technologies, future sales or earnings could be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. In all of our markets, customers frequently develop new supply chain initiatives and/or sourcing models which could create new opportunities, but also could apply pressure to our customer relationships and/or strategic position with those customers.. Industry consolidation trends could reduce our sales opportunities, decrease sales prices, and drive down demand for our products.. There has been consolidation and there may be further consolidation in the aerospace, power, and process industries.  The consolidation in these industries has resulted in customers with vertically integrated operations, including increased in-sourcing capabilities, which may result in economies of scale for those companies.  If our customers continue to seek to control more aspects of vertically integrated projects, cost pressures resulting in further integration or industry consolidation could reduce our sales opportunities, decrease sales prices, and drive down demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Investment Risks. The historic market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated over time.  Stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume volatility particularly over the past few years.  The trading price of our common stock ranged from a high of $78.95 per share to a low of $57.09 per share during the twelve months ended September 30, 2017.  The following factors, among others, could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic conditions, particularly in the aerospace, power generation and process and transportation industries;. 22.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in our quarterly results of operation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe addition or departure of key personnel; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements by us or our competitors of new business, acquisitions or joint ventures.. Fluctuations in our stock price often occur without regard to specific operating performance.  The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon the above factors or other factors, including those that have little to do with our company, and these fluctuations could be material.. The typical daily trading volume of our common stock may affect an investor's ability to sell significant stock holdings in the future without negatively affecting stock price.. As of September 30, 2017, we had 72,960 shares of common stock issued, of which 11,739 shares were held as treasury shares.  In addition, stockholders who each own 5% or greater of our shares hold a total of approximately 23% of the outstanding shares of our common stock.  During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, the average daily trading volume of our stock was approximately 249 shares.  While the level of trading activity will vary each day, our typical daily trading volume is relatively low and represents only a small percentage of total shares of stock outstanding.  As a result, a stockholder who sells a significant number of shares of stock in a short period of time could negatively affect our share price.. Certain anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage or prevent others from acquiring our company.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide for a classified board;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide that directors may be removed only for cause by holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorize our board of directors to fill vacant directorships or to increase or decrease the size of our board of directors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpermit us to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,000 shares of preferred stock, in one or more series and, with respect to each series, to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of the series;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire special meetings of stockholders to be called by holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibit stockholders from acting by written consent;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our common stock for amendments to our certificate of incorporation and certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations, sales of all or substantially all of our assets or dissolution.. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combinations with owners of more than 15% of our stock that have not been approved by the board of directors.  These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation.  Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate a potential acquisition that it does not believe to be in our best interest.  Accordingly, the potential acquirer could be discouraged from offering to acquire us, or could be prevented by the anti-takeover measures, from successfully completing a hostile acquisition.. <U+FEFF>"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
