[1] "Item 1A.   -  Risk Factors. Future results and the market price for Worthington Industries' common shares are subject to numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that cannot be controlled or predicted.  The following discussion, as well as other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including \"PART II - Item 7.  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" describe certain business risks.  Consideration should be given to the risk factors described below as well as those in the Safe Harbor Statement at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in conjunction with reviewing the forward-looking statements and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The risks described below are not the only risks we face.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial in our operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. General Economic or Industry Downturns and Weakness. Our industries are cyclical and weakness or downturns in the general economy or certain industries could have an adverse effect on our business.  If the domestic or global economies, or certain industry sectors of those economies that are key to our sales, deteriorate, it could result in a corresponding decrease in demand for our products and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. The automotive and construction industries account for a significant portion of our net sales, and reduced demand from these industries could adversely affect our business.  An overall downturn in the general economy, a disruption in capital and credit markets, high unemployment, reduced consumer confidence or other factors could cause reductions in demand from our end markets in general and, in particular, the automotive and construction end markets.  If demand for the products we sell to the automotive, construction or other end markets which we supply were to be reduced, our sales, financial results and cash flows could be negatively affected.. We face intense competition which may cause decreased demand, decreased market share and/or reduced prices for our products and services.  Our businesses operate in industries that are highly competitive and have been subject to increasing consolidation of customers.  Because of the range of the products and services we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors.   Our failure to compete effectively and/or pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our businesses and financial results.. Financial difficulties and bankruptcy filings by our customers could have an adverse impact on our businesses.  In past years, some customers have experienced and some continue to experience challenging financial conditions.  The financial difficulties of certain customers and/or their failure to obtain credit or otherwise improve their overall financial condition could result in changes within the markets we serve, including plant closings, decreased production, reduced demand, changes in product mix, unfavorable changes in the prices, terms or conditions we are able to obtain and other changes that may result in decreased purchases from us and otherwise negatively impact our businesses.  These conditions also increase the risk that our customers may delay or default on their payment obligations to us.  If the general economy or any of our markets decline, the risk of bankruptcy filings by and financial difficulties of our customers may increase.  While we have taken and will continue to take steps intended to mitigate the impact of financial difficulties and potential bankruptcy filings by our customers, these matters could have a negative impact on our businesses.. Volatility in the prices of natural gas and/or oil may adversely affect the demand for products in our oil and gas equipment business.  Volatility or weakness in oil prices or natural gas prices, or the perception of future price weakness, affects the spending patterns of our customers within the oil and gas equipment business and the demand for our products.  This has resulted and may continue to result in the drilling of fewer wells and lower production spending on existing wells, lowering demand for our oil and gas equipment products and negatively impacting our results of operations and financial condition.  Likewise, recent downturns in the oil industry have limited, and may continue to limit, the number of vehicles changing from gasoline as a fuel to CNG, propane or alternative fuels which could negatively impact demand for our alternative fuel cylinders and systems.. 9. Volatility in the United States and worldwide capital and credit markets could impact our end markets and result in negative impacts on demand, increased credit and collection risks and other adverse effects on our businesses.  The domestic and worldwide capital and credit markets have experienced significant volatility, disruptions and dislocations with respect to price and credit availability.  These factors caused diminished availability of credit and other capital in our end markets, and for participants in, and the customers of, those markets.  Although domestic credit markets have largely stabilized from the height of the financial crisis, the effects of the financial crisis continue to present additional risks to us, our customers and suppliers.  In particular, there is no guarantee that the credit markets or liquidity will not once again be restricted.  Additionally, stricter lending standards may make it more difficult and costly for some firms to access the credit markets.  Further, uncertainties in Europe regarding the financial sector and sovereign debt and the potential impact on banks in other regions of the world will continue to weigh on global and domestic growth.  Although we believe we have adequate access to several sources of contractually committed borrowings and other available credit facilities, these risks could temporarily restrict our ability to borrow money on acceptable terms in the credit markets and potentially could affect our ability to draw on our credit facilities.  In addition, restricted access to the credit markets could make it difficult, or in some cases, impossible for customers to borrow money to fund their operations.  Lack of, or limited access to, capital would adversely affect our customers' ability to purchase our products or, in some cases, to pay for our products on a timely basis.. Raw Material Pricing and Availability. Our operating results may be adversely affected by declining steel prices.  If steel prices or other raw material prices decrease, competitive conditions may impact how quickly we must reduce our prices to our customers, and we could be forced to use higher-priced raw materials then on hand to complete orders for which the selling prices have decreased.  Decreasing steel prices could also require us to write-down the value of our inventory to reflect current market pricing.. Our operating results may be affected by fluctuations in raw material prices and our ability to pass on increases in raw material costs to our customers.  Our principal raw material is flat-rolled steel, which we purchase from multiple primary steel producers.  The steel industry as a whole has been cyclical, and at times availability and pricing can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control.  These factors include general economic conditions, domestic and worldwide supply and demand, the influence of hedge funds and other investment funds participating in commodity markets, curtailed production from major suppliers due to factors such as the closing or idling of facilities, accidents or equipment breakdowns, repairs or catastrophic events, labor costs or problems, competition, new laws and regulations, import duties, tariffs, energy costs, availability and cost of steel inputs (e.g., ore, scrap, coke and energy), currency exchange rates and other factors described in the immediately following paragraph.  This volatility, as well as any increases in raw material costs, could significantly affect our steel costs and adversely impact our financial results.  If our suppliers increase the prices of our critical raw materials, we may not have alternative sources of supply.  In addition, in an environment of increasing prices for steel and other raw materials, competitive conditions may impact how much of the price increases we can pass on to our customers.  To the extent we are unable to pass on future price increases in our raw materials to our customers, our financial results could be adversely affected.. The costs of manufacturing our products and our ability to meet our customers' demands could be negatively impacted if we experience interruptions in deliveries of needed raw materials or supplies.  If, for any reason, our supply of flat-rolled steel or other key raw materials, such as aluminum, zinc or helium, or other supplies is curtailed or we are otherwise unable to obtain the quantities we need at competitive prices, our business could suffer and our financial results could be adversely affected.  Such interruptions could result from a number of factors, including a shortage of capacity in the supplier base of raw materials, energy or the inputs needed to make steel or other supplies, a failure of suppliers to fulfill their supply or delivery obligations, financial difficulties of suppliers resulting in the closing or idling of supplier facilities, other significant events affecting supplier facilities, significant weather events, those factors listed in the immediately preceding paragraph or other factors beyond our control.  Further, the number of suppliers has decreased in recent years due to industry consolidation and the financial difficulties of certain suppliers, and this consolidation may continue.. An increase in the spread between the price of steel and steel scrap prices can have a negative impact on our margins.  No matter how efficient, our operations which use steel as a raw material, create some amount of scrap.  The expected price of scrap compared to the price of the steel raw material is generally factored into pricing.  Generally, as the price of steel increases, the price of scrap increases by a similar amount.  Recently, increases in scrap prices have not kept pace with the increases in the price of the steel raw material and when this occurs, it can have a negative impact on our margins.. 10. Inventories. Our businesses could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels.  We are required to maintain sufficient inventories to accommodate the needs of our customers including, in many cases, short lead times and just-in-time delivery requirements.  Although we typically have customer orders in hand prior to placement of our raw material orders for our Steel Processing operating segment, we anticipate and forecast customer demand for each of our operating segments.  We purchase raw materials on a regular basis in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe are sufficient to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon orders, customer volume expectations, historic buying practices and market conditions.  Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in the use of higher-priced inventory to fill orders reflecting lower selling prices, if raw material prices have significantly decreased.  For example, if steel prices decrease, we could be forced to use higher-priced steel then on hand to complete orders for which the selling price has decreased.  These events could adversely affect our financial results.  Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our products or if our suppliers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages.  Inventory shortages could result in unfilled orders, negatively impacting our customer relationships and resulting in lost revenues, which could harm our businesses and adversely affect our financial results.. Suppliers and Customers. The loss of significant volume from our key customers could adversely affect us.  A significant loss of, or decrease in, business from any of our key customers could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial results if we cannot obtain replacement business.  Also, due to consolidation in the industries we serve, including the construction, automotive and retail industries, our sales may be increasingly sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments with respect to, one or more of our top customers.  In addition, certain of our top customers may be able to exert pricing and other influences on us, requiring us to market, deliver and promote our products in a manner that may be more costly to us.  We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers.  As a result, although our customers periodically provide notice of their future product needs and purchases, they generally purchase our products on an order-by-order basis, and the relationship, as well as particular orders, can be terminated at any time.. Many of our key industries, such as automotive, oil and gas, construction and heavy mobile equipment, are cyclical in nature.  Many of our key industries, such as automotive, oil and gas, construction and heavy mobile equipment, are cyclical and can be impacted by both market demand and raw material supply, particularly with respect to steel.  The demand for our products is directly related to, and quickly impacted by, customer demand in our industries, which can change as the result of changes in the general United States or worldwide economies and other factors beyond our control.  Adverse changes in demand or pricing can have a negative effect on our businesses.. Significant reductions in sales to any of the Detroit Three automakers, or to our automotive-related customers in general, could have a negative impact on our business.  More than half of the net sales of our Steel Processing operating segment and a significant amount of the net sales of certain joint ventures are to automotive-related customers.  Although we do sell to the domestic operations of foreign automakers and their suppliers, a significant portion of our automotive sales are to Ford, General Motors, and FCA US (the \"Detroit Three automakers\") and their suppliers.  A reduction in sales for any of the Detroit Three automakers could negatively impact our business.  Since 2011, automobile producers have been taking steps toward complying with new Corporate Average Fuel Economy mileage requirements for new cars and light trucks that they produce.  As automobile producers work to produce vehicles in compliance with these standards, they may reduce the amount of steel or begin utilizing alternative materials in cars and trucks to improve fuel economy, thereby reducing demand for steel and resulting in further over-supply of steel in North America.  Certain automakers have begun using greater amounts of aluminum and smaller proportions of steel in some new models.. A significant reduction in sales to any of our large heavy mobile equipment customers could have a negative impact on our business.  Substantially all of the sales of our Engineered Cabs operating segment are to customers who manufacture heavy mobile equipment.  A reduction in sales to any of our major customers in this market could negatively impact our business.  A reduction in demand could result from numerous causes including a reduction in overall market demand for heavy mobile equipment, in-sourcing of engineered cabs by our customers, or increased competition.. 11. The closing or relocation of customer facilities could adversely affect us.  Our ability to meet delivery requirements and the overall cost of our products as delivered to customer facilities are important competitive factors.  If customers close or move their production facilities further away from our manufacturing facilities which can supply them, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet competitive conditions, which could result in the loss of sales.  Likewise, if customers move their production facilities outside the United States, it could result in the loss of potential sales for us.. Sales conflicts with our customers and/or suppliers may adversely impact us.  In some instances, we may compete with one or more of our customers and/or suppliers in pursuing the same business.  In addition, in the Engineered Cabs business, our customers often have the option of producing certain cabs in-house instead of having them supplied by us or our competition and to the extent they elect to produce such cabs in-house, it could adversely affect our sales.  Such conflicts may strain our relationships with the parties involved, which could adversely affect our future business with them.. The closing or idling of steel manufacturing facilities could have a negative impact on us.  As steel makers have reduced their production capacities by closing or idling production lines, the number of facilities from which we can purchase steel, in particular certain specialty steels, has decreased.  Accordingly, if delivery from a supplier is disrupted, particularly with respect to certain types of specialty steel, it may be more difficult to obtain an alternate supply than in the past.  These closures and disruptions could also have an adverse effect on our suppliers' on-time delivery performance, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our own delivery commitments and may have other adverse effects on our businesses.. The loss of key supplier relationships could adversely affect us.  Over the years, our various manufacturing operations have developed relationships with certain steel and other suppliers which have been beneficial to us by providing more assured delivery and a more favorable all-in cost, which includes price and shipping costs.  If any of those relationships were disrupted, it could have an adverse effect on delivery times and the overall cost and quality of our raw materials, which could have a negative impact on our businesses.  In addition, we do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers.  If, in the future, we are unable to obtain sufficient amounts of steel and other products at competitive prices and on a timely basis from our traditional suppliers, we may be unable to obtain these products from alternative sources at competitive prices to meet our delivery schedules, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Competition. Our businesses are highly competitive, and increased competition could negatively impact our financial results.  Generally, the markets in which we conduct business are highly competitive.  Our competitors include a variety of both domestic and foreign companies in all major markets.  Competition for most of our products is primarily on the basis of price, product quality and our ability to meet delivery requirements.  Depending on a variety of factors, including raw material, energy, labor and capital costs, government control of currency exchange rates and government subsidies of foreign steel producers or competitors, our businesses may be materially adversely affected by competitive forces.  Competition may also increase if suppliers to or customers of our industries begin to more directly compete with our businesses through new facilities, acquisitions or otherwise.  As noted above, we can have conflicts with our customers or suppliers who, in some cases, supply the same products and services as we do.  Increased competition could cause us to lose market share, increase expenditures, lower our margins or offer additional services at a higher cost to us, which could adversely impact our financial results.. Material Substitution. If steel prices increase compared to certain substitute materials, the demand for our products could be negatively impacted, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results.  In certain applications, steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum (particularly in the automobile industry), cement and wood (particularly in the construction industry), composites, glass and plastic.  Prices of all of these materials fluctuate widely, and differences between the prices of these materials and the price of steel may adversely affect demand for our products and/or encourage material substitution, which could adversely affect the prices of and demand for steel products.  The higher cost of steel relative to certain other materials may make material substitution more attractive for certain uses.. 12. If increased government mileage standards for automobiles result in the substitution of other materials for steel, demand for our products could be negatively impacted, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results.  Due to government requirements that manufacturers increase the fuel efficiency of automobiles, the automobile industry is exploring alternative materials to steel to decrease weight.  The substitution of lighter weight material for steel in automobiles could adversely affect prices of and demand for our steel products.. Freight and Energy. Increasing freight and energy costs could increase our operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results.  The availability and cost of freight and energy, such as electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel, are important in the manufacture and transport of our products.  Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy, and our operating costs generally increase when energy costs rise.  Factors that may affect our energy costs include significant increases in fuel, oil or natural gas prices, unavailability of electrical power or other energy sources due to droughts, hurricanes or other natural causes or due to shortages resulting from insufficient supplies to serve customers, or interruptions in energy supplies due to equipment failure or other causes.  During periods of increasing energy and freight costs, we may be unable to fully recover our operating cost increases through price increases without reducing demand for our products.  Our financial results could be adversely affected if we are unable to pass all of the increases on to our customers or if we are unable to obtain the necessary freight and energy.  Also, increasing energy costs could put a strain on the transportation of our materials and products if the increased costs force certain transporters to close.. We depend on third parties for freight services, and increases in costs or the lack of availability of freight services can adversely affect our operations.  We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of our products as well as delivery of our raw materials, primarily by truck.  If, due to a lack of freight services, raw materials are not delivered to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture and deliver our products to meet customer demand.  Likewise, if due to a lack of freight service, we cannot deliver our products in a timely manner, it could harm our reputation, negatively affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  In addition, any increase in the cost of the transportation of raw materials or our products, as a result of increases in fuel or labor costs, higher demand for logistics services or otherwise, may adversely affect our results of operations as we may not be able to pass such cost increases on to our customers.. Information Systems. We are subject to information system security risks and systems integration issues that could disrupt our internal operations.  We are dependent upon information technology and networks in connection with a variety of business activities including the distribution of information internally and to our customers and suppliers.  This information technology is subject to potential damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, and natural disasters.  We could also be adversely affected by system or network disruptions if new or upgraded business management systems are defective, not installed properly or not properly integrated into operations.  In addition, security breaches of our information systems could result in unauthorized disclosure or destruction of confidential or proprietary information and/or loss of the functionality of our systems.  Various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to information system and network disruptions and to prevent attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information systems.  While we undertake mitigating activities to counter these risks, a system failure could negatively impact our operations and financial results and cyber attacks could threaten the integrity of our trade secrets and sensitive intellectual property.. Business Disruptions. Disruptions to our business or the business of our customers or suppliers could adversely impact our operations and financial results.  Business disruptions, including increased costs for, or interruptions in, the supply of energy or raw materials, resulting from shortages of supply or transportation, severe weather events (such as hurricanes, tsunamis, earthquakes, tornados, floods and blizzards), casualty events (such as explosions, fires or material equipment breakdown), acts of terrorism, pandemic disease, labor disruptions, the idling of facilities due to reduced demand (resulting from a downturn in economic activity or otherwise) or other events (such as required maintenance shutdowns), could cause interruptions to our businesses as well as the operations of our customers and suppliers.  While we maintain insurance coverage that can offset some losses relating to certain types of these events, losses from business disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results and we could be adversely impacted to the extent any such losses are not covered by insurance or cause some other adverse impact to us.. 13. Foreign Operations. Economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international financial results.  Although the substantial majority of our business activity takes place in the United States, we derive a portion of our revenues and earnings from operations in foreign countries, and we are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally.  We have wholly-owned facilities in Austria, Poland, Portugal and Turkey and joint venture facilities in Canada, China, France, India, Mexico and the United Kingdom, and are active in exploring other foreign opportunities.  The risks of doing business in foreign countries include, among other factors: the potential for adverse changes in the local political climate, in diplomatic relations between foreign countries and the United States or in government policies, laws or regulations; terrorist activity that may cause social disruption; logistical and communications challenges; costs of complying with a variety of laws and regulations; difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations; deterioration of foreign economic conditions; inflation and fluctuations in interest rates; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; foreign exchange restrictions; differing local business practices and cultural considerations; restrictions on imports and exports or sources of supply, including energy and raw materials; changes in duties, quotas, tariffs, taxes or other protectionist measures; and potential issues related to matters covered by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, regulations related to import/export controls, the Office of Foreign Assets Control sanctions program, anti-boycott provisions or similar laws.  We believe that our business activities outside of the United States involve a higher degree of risk than our domestic activities, and any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.  In addition, global and regional economic conditions and the volatility of worldwide capital and credit markets have significantly impacted and may continue to significantly impact our foreign customers and markets.  These factors may result in decreased demand in our foreign operations and have had significant negative impacts on our business.  Refer to the General Economic or Industry Downturns and Weakness risk factors herein for additional information concerning the impact of the global economic conditions and the volatility of capital and credit markets on our business.. Joint Ventures. A change in the relationship between the members of any of our joint ventures may have an adverse effect on that joint venture.  We have been successful in the development and operation of various joint ventures, and our equity in net income from our joint ventures, particularly WAVE, has been important to our financial results.  We believe an important element in the success of any joint venture is a solid relationship between the members of that joint venture.  If there is a change in ownership, a change of control, a change in management or management philosophy, a change in business strategy or another event with respect to a member of a joint venture that adversely impacts the relationship between the joint venture members, it could adversely impact that joint venture.  The other members in our joint ventures may also, as a result of financial or other reasons, be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations in the respective joint ventures.  In addition, joint ventures necessarily involve special risks.  Whether or not we hold a majority interest or maintain operational control in a joint venture, the other members in our joint ventures may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals.  For example, the other members in our joint ventures may exercise veto rights to block actions that we believe to be in our best interests, may take action contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to our investments, or may be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations or commitments to the joint venture.. Acquisitions. We may be unable to successfully consummate, manage or integrate our acquisitions or our acquisitions may not meet our expectations.  A portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions.  We may from time to time continue to seek attractive opportunities to acquire businesses, enter into joint ventures and make other investments that are complementary to our existing strengths.  There are no assurances, however, that any acquisition opportunities will arise or, if they do, that they will be consummated, or that any needed additional financing for such opportunities will be available on satisfactory terms when required.  In addition, acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations, that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect, that we may assume unknown liabilities from the seller, that the acquired businesses may not be integrated successfully and that the acquisitions may strain our management resources or divert management's attention from other business concerns.  International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase our exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations and countries.  Also, failure to successfully integrate any of our acquisitions may cause significant operating inefficiencies and could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. 14. Capital Expenditures. Our business requires capital investment and maintenance expenditures, and our capital resources may not be adequate to provide for all of our cash requirements.  Many of our operations are capital intensive.  For the five-year period ended May 31, 2018, our total capital expenditures, including acquisitions and investment activity, were approximately $857.1 million.  Additionally, as of May 31, 2018, we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $43.4 million under operating lease agreements.  Our businesses also require expenditures for maintenance of our facilities.  We currently believe that we have adequate resources (including cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by operating activities, availability under existing credit facilities and unused lines of credit) to meet our cash needs for normal operating costs, capital expenditures, debt repayments, dividend payments, future acquisitions and working capital for our existing businesses.  However, given the potential for challenges, uncertainty and volatility in the domestic and global economies and financial markets, there can be no assurance that our capital resources will be adequate to provide for all of our cash requirements.. Litigation. We may be subject to legal proceedings or investigations, the resolution of which could negatively affect our results of operations and liquidity in a particular period.  Our results of operations or liquidity in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any legal proceedings or investigations which may be pending against us or filed against us in the future.  We are also subject to a variety of legal and compliance risks, including, without limitation, potential claims relating to product liability, product recall, privacy and information security, health and safety, environmental matters, intellectual property rights, taxes and compliance with U.S. and foreign export laws, anti-bribery laws, competition laws and sales and trading practices.  While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to address and reduce these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and contingencies may arise from time to time.  An adverse ruling or settlement or an unfavorable change in laws, rules or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or liquidity in a particular period.. Claims and Insurance. Adverse claims experience, to the extent not covered by insurance, may have an adverse effect on our financial results.  We self-insure a significant portion of our potential liability for workers' compensation, product liability, cyber liability, product recall, general liability, pollution liability, property liability, automobile liability and employee medical claims.  In order to reduce risk, we purchase insurance from highly-rated, licensed insurance carriers that cover most claims in excess of the applicable deductible or retained amounts.  We maintain reserves for the estimated cost to resolve open claims as well as an estimate of the cost of claims that have been incurred but not reported.  The occurrence of significant claims, our failure to adequately reserve for such claims, a significant cost increase to maintain our insurance or the failure of our insurance providers to perform could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Accounting and Tax-Related Estimates. We are required to make accounting and tax-related estimates, assumptions and judgments in preparing our consolidated financial statements, and actual results may differ materially from the estimates, assumptions and judgments that we use.  In preparing our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we are required to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.  These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements is dependent on future events, or cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available to us.  In some cases, these estimates and assumptions are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment.  Some of the estimates, assumptions and judgments having the greatest amount of uncertainty, subjectivity and complexity are related to our accounting for bad debts, returns and allowances, inventory, self-insurance reserves, derivatives, stock-based compensation, deferred tax assets and liabilities and asset impairments.  Our actual results may differ materially from the estimates, assumptions and judgments that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Tax Laws and Regulations. Tax increases or changes in tax laws or regulations could adversely affect our financial results.  We are subject to tax and related obligations in the jurisdictions in which we operate or do business, including state, local, federal and foreign taxes.  The taxing rules of the various jurisdictions in which we operate or do business often are complex and subject to varying interpretations.  Tax authorities may challenge tax positions that we take or historically have taken, and may assess taxes where we have not made tax filings or may audit the tax filings we have made and assess additional taxes.  Some of these assessments may be substantial, and also may involve the imposition of penalties and interest.  In addition, governments could change their existing tax laws, impose new taxes on us or increase the rates at which we are taxed in the future.  The payment of substantial additional taxes, penalties or interest resulting from tax assessments, or the imposition of any new taxes, could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. In particular, while the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") reduced our corporate tax rate, any future changes in tax legislation, including changing tax rates and tax base by U.S. states in implementation of the TCJA, or any guidance that may be issued in implementation of the TCJA and related legislation could have a significant impact, whether positive or negative, on our financial performance.  We are continuing to review the components of the TCJA and evaluate its anticipated impact.  In addition, the portions of the TCJA that transition the U.S. tax regime from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system provide for U.S. tax on certain types of foreign income may also cause tax increases on our foreign operations.. Principal Shareholder. Our principal shareholder may have the ability to exert significant influence in matters requiring a shareholder vote and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Worthington Industries.  Pursuant to our charter documents, certain matters such as those in which a person would attempt to acquire or take control of the Company, must be approved by the vote of the holders of common shares representing at least 75% of Worthington Industries' outstanding voting power.  Approximately 30% of our outstanding common shares are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by John P. McConnell, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.  As a result of his beneficial ownership of our common shares, Mr. McConnell may have the ability to exert significant influence in these matters and other proposals upon which our shareholders may vote.. Key Employees. If we lose senior management or other key employees, our business may be adversely affected.  Our ability to successfully operate, grow our business and implement our business strategies is largely dependent on the efforts, abilities and services of our senior management and other key employees.  The loss of any of these individuals or our inability to attract, train and retain additional personnel could reduce the competitiveness of our business or otherwise impair our operations or prospects.  Our future success will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including engineers and other skilled technicians, who have experience in the application of our products and are knowledgeable about our business, markets and products.  We cannot assure that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or other key employees or attract additional qualified personnel when needed.  The loss of any member of our management team could adversely impact our business and operations.  We have not entered into any formal employment contracts with or other stand-alone change in control provisions relative to our executive officers.  However, we do have certain change in control provisions in our various compensation plans.  We may modify our management structure from time to time or reduce our overall workforce, which may create marketing, operational and other business risks.. Credit Ratings. Ratings agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which may make it more difficult for us to raise capital and could increase our financing costs.  Any downgrade in our credit ratings may make raising capital more difficult, may increase the cost and affect the terms of future borrowings, may affect the terms under which we purchase goods and services and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities.  In addition, the interest rate on our revolving credit facility is tied to our credit ratings, and any downgrade of our credit ratings would likely result in an increase in the cost of borrowings under our revolving credit facility.. 16. Difficult Financial Markets. Should we be required to raise capital in the future, we could face higher borrowing costs, less available capital, more stringent terms and tighter covenants or, in extreme conditions, an inability to raise capital.  Although we currently have significant borrowing availability under our existing credit facilities and should be able to access other capital if needed, should those facilities become unavailable due to covenant or other defaults, or should financial results tighten so that we otherwise cannot raise capital outside our existing facilities, or the terms under which we do so change, we may be negatively impacted.  Any adverse change in our access to capital or the terms of our borrowings, including increased costs, could have a negative impact on our financial condition.. Environmental, Health and Safety. We may incur additional costs related to environmental and health and safety matters.  Our operations and facilities are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety.  Compliance with these laws and regulations and any changes therein may sometimes involve substantial operating costs and capital expenditures, and any failure to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for our operations could result in increased costs and capital expenditures and potentially fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations.  Over time, we and predecessor operators of our facilities have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes.  Environmental liabilities, including cleanup obligations, could exist at our facilities or at off-site locations where materials from our operations were disposed of or at facilities we have divested, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could reduce our profits and cash flow.  We may be held strictly liable for any contamination of these sites, and the amount of any such liability could be material.  Under the \"joint and several\" liability principle of certain environmental laws, we may be held liable for all remediation costs at a particular site, even with respect to contamination for which we are not responsible.  In addition, changes in environmental and human health and safety laws, rules, regulations or enforcement policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Legislation and Regulations. Certain proposed legislation and regulations may have an adverse impact on the economy in general and in our markets specifically, which may adversely affect our businesses.  Our businesses may be negatively impacted by a variety of new or proposed legislation or regulations.  For example, legislation and regulations proposing increases in taxation on, or heightened regulation of, greenhouse gas emissions may result in higher prices for steel, higher prices for utilities required to run our facilities, higher fuel costs for us and our suppliers and distributors and other adverse impacts.  To the extent that new legislation or regulations increase our costs, we may not be able to fully pass these costs on to our customers without a resulting decline in sales and adverse impact to our profits.  Likewise, to the extent new legislation or regulations would have an adverse effect on the economy, our markets or the ability of domestic businesses to compete against foreign operations, we could also be adversely impacted.. Legislation, regulations or other events which could adversely affect the ability or cost to recover natural gas or oil may negatively affect our business.  In recent years, increasing amounts of oil and natural gas have been produced through the hydraulic fracking process throughout the United States and North America.  This has resulted in decreasing energy costs, particularly for natural gas and similar energy products.  This reduction has helped lower energy costs for U.S. businesses.  Also, some of our recent acquisitions supply products which are used by companies engaged in hydraulic fracking.  If legislation, regulations or other events limit the ability to recover such fuels through hydraulic fracking or increase the cost thereof, it could have a negative impact on our business, the U.S. economy and U.S. businesses in general, which could result in decreased demand for our products or otherwise negatively impact our business.. The impact of U.S. health care laws could adversely affect our businesses.  In the wake of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"Obamacare\"), U.S. health care costs have increased.  Many project that there will continue to be significant increases in health care costs which could adversely impact the U.S. economy and U.S. businesses.  This could result in a decreased demand for our products, as well as an increase in expenditures for health care costs for our personnel, both of which would negatively impact our profits.  Congress has considered amending or replacing Obamacare, but it is uncertain if any changes or a replacement will be affected or what the impact of any such changes or replacement will be.. 17. Changes to global data privacy laws and cross-border transfer requirements could adversely affect our businesses and operations.  Our businesses depend on the transfer of data between our affiliated entities, to and from our business partners, and with third-party service provides, which may be subject to global data privacy laws and cross-border transfer restrictions.  In particular, the European Union recently implemented the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which contains numerous requirements that must be complied with in connection with how we handle personal data related to our European-based operations and employees.  While we take steps to comply with these legal requirements, the volatility and changes to the applicability of those laws may impact our ability to effectively transfer data across borders in support of our business operations.  Compliance with GDPR, or other regulatory standards, could also increase our cost of doing business and/or force us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our businesses.  In addition, violations of GDPR may result in significant fines, penalties and damage to our brands and businesses which could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our businesses and reputation.. Significant changes to the U.S. federal government's trade policies, including new tariffs or the renegotiation or termination of existing trade agreements and/or treaties, may adversely affect our financial performance.  The U.S. federal government has indicated its intention to alter U.S. international trade policy and to renegotiate or terminate certain existing trade agreements and treaties with foreign governments.  Most recently, the U.S. federal government has initiated re-negotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\") with Mexico and Canada.  While negotiations among these parties remain ongoing, the U.S. federal government's potential decision to withdraw or materially modify NAFTA or other existing trade agreements or treaties may adversely impact our business, customers and/or suppliers by disrupting trade and commercial transactions and/or adversely affecting the U.S. economy or specific portions thereof.. Additionally, the U.S. federal government has imposed, and is considering imposing additional tariffs on certain foreign goods.  For example, in March and again in May of 2018, the U.S. federal government imposed additional tariffs under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, on certain steel products imported into the United States.  Although the new steel tariffs may benefit portions of our business, these tariffs, as well as country-specific or product-specific exemptions, may also lead to retaliatory actions from foreign governments and/or modifications to the purchasing patterns of our customers that could adversely affect our business or the steel industry as a whole.  In particular, certain foreign governments, including Canada, China and Mexico, as well as the European Union, have instituted or are considering imposing tariffs on certain U.S. goods.  Restrictions on trade with foreign countries, imposition of customs duties or further modifications to U.S. international trade policy have the potential to disrupt our supply chain or the supply chains of our customers and to adversely impact demand for our products, our costs, customers, suppliers and/or the U.S. economy or certain sectors thereof, potentially leading to negative effects on our business.. Seasonality. Our operations have been subject to seasonal fluctuations that may impact our cash flows for a particular period.  Historically our sales are generally strongest in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year when all of our business segments are normally operating at seasonal peaks, and our sales are generally weaker in the third quarter of the fiscal year, primarily due to reduced activity in the building and construction industry as a result of the colder, more inclement weather, as well as customer plant shutdowns in the automotive industry due to holidays.  Our quarterly results may also be affected by the timing of large customer orders.  Consequently, our cash flow from operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter.  If, as a result of any such fluctuation, our quarterly cash flows were significantly reduced, we may be unable to service our indebtedness or maintain compliance with certain covenants under our credit facilities.  A default under any of the documents governing our indebtedness could prevent us from borrowing additional funds, limit our ability to pay interest or principal and allow our lenders to declare the amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and to exercise certain other remedies.. 18. Impairment Charges. Weakness or instability in the general economy, our markets or our results of operations could result in future asset impairments, which would reduce our reported earnings and net worth.  We review the carrying value of our long-lived assets, excluding purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable.  Impairment testing involves a comparison of the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows of the asset or asset group to its respective carrying amount.  If the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists.  If the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows, then a second step is performed to determine the amount of impairment, if any, to be recognized.  For long-lived assets other than goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group exceeds fair value.  Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually, during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may be present.  For goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, we test for impairment by completing what is referred to as the \"Step 0\" analysis which involves evaluating qualitative factors including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, and overall financial performance.  If our \"Step 0\" analysis indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than the carrying amount, we would perform a quantitative impairment test.  The quantitative analysis compares the fair value of each reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset to the respective carrying amount, and an impairment loss is recognized in our consolidated statements of earnings equivalent to the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value.  Fair value is determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, as appropriate.  Economic conditions remain fragile in some markets and the possibility remains that the domestic or global economies, or certain industry sectors that are key to our sales, may deteriorate.  If certain of our business segments are adversely affected by challenging economic and financial conditions, we may be required to record future impairments, which would negatively impact our results of operations."
