[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT. FOR PURPOSES OF THE \"SAFE HARBOR\" PROVISIONS OF. THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995. Certain matters contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements relate to anticipated financial performance, management's plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions and other matters.. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report that address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of words such as \"anticipates,\" \"believes,\" \"seeks,\" \"could,\" \"may,\" \"should,\" \"continues,\" \"estimates,\" \"expects,\" \"forecasts,\" \"intends,\" \"might,\" \"goals,\" \"objectives,\" \"targets,\" \"planned,\" \"potential,\" \"projects,\" \"scheduled,\" \"will\" or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:. • amounts and nature of future capital expenditures;. • expansion and growth of our business and operations;. • financial condition and liquidity;. • business strategy;. • estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves;. • reserve potential;. • development drilling potential;. • cash flow from operations or results of operations;. • acquisitions or divestitures;. • seasonality of our business; and. • crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices and demand.. Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:. • availability of supplies (including the uncertainties inherent in assessing, estimating, acquiring and developing future natural gas and oil reserves), market demand, volatility of prices and the availability and cost of capital;. • inflation, interest rates, fluctuation in foreign exchange and general economic conditions (including future disruptions and volatility in the global credit markets and the impact of these events on our customers and suppliers);. • the strength and financial resources of our competitors;. • development of alternative energy sources;. • the impact of operational and development hazards;. • costs of, changes in, or the results of laws, government regulations (including climate change regulation and/or potential additional regulation of drilling and completion of wells), environmental liabilities, litigation and rate proceedings;. • changes in maintenance and construction costs;. • changes in the current geopolitical situation;. • our exposure to the credit risk of our customers;. • risks related to strategy and financing, including restrictions stemming from our debt agreements, future changes in our credit ratings and the availability and cost of credit;. • risks associated with future weather conditions;. • acts of terrorism; and. • other factors described in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and \"Business.\". 24. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements set forth above. Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments, except to the extent required by applicable laws. If we update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements.. In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise.. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors are described in \"Risk Factors.\". RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider each of the following risks, which we believe are the principal risks that we face and of which we are currently aware, and all of the other information in this report. Some of the risks described below relate to our business, while others relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could suffer materially and adversely. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business requires significant capital expenditures and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all.. Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. We expect to fund our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations and, when appropriate, borrowings under our credit facility. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, including the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and natural gas and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund our capital expenditure budget, we may have limited ability to obtain the additional capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas production or reserves, and in some areas a loss of properties.. Failure to replace reserves may negatively affect our business.. The growth of our business depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves generally decline when reserves are produced, unless we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. We may not always be able to find, develop or acquire additional reserves at acceptable costs. If oil and natural gas prices increase, our costs for additional reserves would also increase; conversely if natural gas or oil prices decrease, it could make it more difficult to fund the replacement of our reserves.. Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves.. Our past success rate for drilling projects should not be considered a predictor of future commercial success. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. The new wells we drill or participate in may not be commercially productive, and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in wells we drill or participate in. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry wells or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed, canceled or rendered unprofitable or less profitable than anticipated as a result of a variety of other factors, including:. 25. • increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs and equipment, supplies, skilled labor, capital or transportation;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • adverse weather conditions, such as floods or blizzards;. • title and lease related problems;. • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas;. • unexpected drilling conditions or problems;. • pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. • regulations and regulatory approvals;. • changes or anticipated changes in energy prices; or. • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements.. If forecasted oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas oil properties.. Accounting rules require that we review periodically the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we performed impairment assessments of our proved and unproved properties. We determined that no impairment charges were required as a result of these assessments. These reviews included approximately $5.2 billion of net book value associated with our predominantly oil proved properties and utilized inputs generally consistent with those described above. Many judgments and assumptions are inherent and to some extent interdependent of one another in our estimate of future cash flows used to evaluate these assets. The use of alternate judgments and assumptions could result in the recognition of different levels of impairment charges in the consolidated financial statements. We may incur impairment charges for these or other properties in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken.. Estimating reserves and future net revenues involves uncertainties. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices, or negative revisions to reserve estimates or assumptions as to future oil and natural gas prices may lead to decreased earnings, losses or impairment of oil and natural gas assets.. Reserve estimation is a subjective process of evaluating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Reserves that are \"proved reserves\" are those estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions and relate to projects for which the extraction of hydrocarbons must have commenced or for which the operator is reasonably certain will commence within a reasonable time.. The process relies on interpretations of available geological, geophysical, engineering and production data. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of developmental expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data included in this report represents estimates. In addition, the estimates of future net revenues from our proved reserves and the present value of such estimates are based upon certain assumptions about future production levels, prices and costs that may not prove to be correct.. Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions in existence during the period of assessment. Changes to oil and gas prices in the markets for such commodities may have the impact of shortening the economic lives of certain fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable reserves on such fields, which reduces proved property reserve estimates.. If negative revisions in the estimated quantities of proved reserves were to occur, it would have the effect of increasing the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization on the affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in losses through higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. These revisions, as well as revisions in the assumptions of future cash flows of these reserves, may also be sufficient to trigger impairment losses on certain properties which would result in a noncash charge to earnings.. 26. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate.. Approximately 49 percent of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2017 were proved undeveloped reserves and may not be ultimately developed or produced. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserves data included in the reserves engineer reports assumes that substantial capital expenditures are required to develop such reserves. We cannot be certain that the estimated costs of the development of these reserves are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results of such development will be as estimated. Delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the present value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved reserves as unproved reserves.. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the value we ultimately realize of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we have based the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding 12 months without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as:. • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas;. • actual cost of development and production expenditures;. • the amount and timing of actual production; and. • changes in governmental regulations or taxation.. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold assets are subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage.. A portion of our acreage is not currently held by production. Unless production in paying quantities is established on units containing these leases during their terms, the leases will expire. If we do not extend our leases and our leases expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory and lease issues.. Prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs are volatile, and this volatility could adversely affect our financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to maintain our existing business.. Our revenues, operating results, future rate of growth and the value of our business depend primarily upon the prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs. Price volatility can impact both the amount we receive for our products and the volume of products we sell. Prices affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money under our credit facility or raise additional capital.. The markets for oil, natural gas and NGLs are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in prices might result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for these commodities, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including:. • weather conditions;. • the level of consumer demand;. • the overall economic environment;. • worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions;. 27. • the activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries;. • terrorist attacks on production or transportation assets;. • variations in local market conditions (basis differential);. • the price and availability of other types of fuels;. • the availability of pipeline capacity;. • supply disruptions, including plant outages and transportation disruptions;. • the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil and natural gas;. • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;. • volatility in the oil and natural gas markets;. • the credit of participants in the markets where products are bought and sold; and. • the adoption of regulations or legislation relating to climate change.. Our business depends on access to oil, natural gas and NGL transportation systems and facilities.. The marketability of our oil, natural gas and NGL production depends in large part on the operation, availability, proximity, capacity and expansion of transportation systems and facilities owned by third parties. For example, we can provide no assurance that sufficient transportation capacity will exist for expected production from the Delaware Basin, Williston Basin and San Juan Basin or that we will be able to obtain sufficient transportation capacity on economic terms.. A lack of available capacity on transportation systems and facilities or delays in their planned expansions could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of drilling plans for properties. A lack of availability of these systems and facilities for an extended period of time could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, we have entered into contracts for firm transportation and any failure to renew those contracts on the same or better commercial terms could increase our costs and our exposure to the risks described above.. We may have excess capacity under our firm transportation contracts, or the terms of certain of those contracts may be less favorable than those we could obtain currently.. We have entered into contracts for firm transportation that may exceed our transportation needs. Any excess transportation commitments will result in excess transportation costs that could negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, certain of the contracts we have entered into may be on terms less favorable to us than we could obtain if we were negotiating them at current rates, which also could negatively affect our results of operations.. We have limited control over activities on properties we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues.. If we do not operate the properties in which we own an interest, we do not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations or an operator's breach of the applicable agreements could reduce our production and revenues or increase our costs. As of December 31, 2017, we were not the operator of approximately 10 percent of our total net production. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator's timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology. Because we do not have a majority interest in most wells we do not operate, we may not be in a position to remove the operator in the event of poor performance.. We might not be able to successfully manage the risks associated with selling and marketing products in the wholesale energy markets.. Our portfolio of derivative and other energy contracts includes wholesale contracts to buy and sell oil, natural gas and NGLs that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash. If the values of these contracts change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate or cannot manage, it could negatively affect our results of operations. In the past, certain marketing and trading companies have experienced severe financial problems due to price volatility in the energy commodity markets. In certain instances, this volatility has caused companies to be unable to deliver energy commodities that they had guaranteed under contract. If such a delivery failure were to occur in one of our contracts, we might incur additional losses to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to, or received from, counterparties. In addition, in our business, we often extend credit to our counterparties. We are exposed to the risk that we might not be able to collect amounts owed to us. If the counterparty to such a transaction fails to perform and any collateral that secures our counterparty's obligation is inadequate, we will suffer a loss. Downturns in the economy or disruptions in the global credit markets could cause more of our counterparties to fail to perform than we expect.. 28. Our commodity price risk management and measurement systems and economic hedging activities might not be effective and could increase the volatility of our results.. The systems we use to quantify commodity price risk associated with our businesses might not always be followed or might not always be effective. Further, such systems do not in themselves manage risk, particularly risks outside of our control, and adverse changes in energy commodity market prices, volatility, adverse correlation of commodity prices, the liquidity of markets, changes in interest rates and other risks discussed in this report might still adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks have been identified. Furthermore, no single hedging arrangement can adequately address all commodity price risks present in a given contract. For example, a forward contract that would be effective in hedging commodity price volatility risks would not hedge the contract's counterparty credit or performance risk. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist.. Our use of derivatives through which we attempt to reduce the economic risk of our participation in commodity markets could result in increased volatility of our reported results. Changes in the fair values (gains and losses) of derivatives that qualify as hedges under GAAP to the extent that such hedges are not fully effective in offsetting changes to the value of the hedged commodity, as well as changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify or have not been designated as hedges under GAAP, must be recorded in our income. This creates the risk of volatility in earnings even if no economic impact to us has occurred during the applicable period.. The impact of changes in market prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs on the average prices paid or received by us may be reduced based on the level of our hedging activities. These hedging arrangements may limit or enhance our margins if the market prices for oil, natural gas or NGLs were to change substantially from the price established by the hedges. In addition, our hedging arrangements expose us to the risk of financial loss if our production volumes are less than expected.. Our hedging activities limit participation in commodity price increases and involve other risks.. We enter into hedging activities with respect to a portion of our production to manage our exposure to oil, gas and NGL price volatility. To the extent that we engage in price risk management activities to protect ourselves from commodity price declines, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of commodity price increases above the prices established by our hedging contracts. In addition, our hedging arrangements may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the contract counterparties fail to perform under the contracts. Moreover, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and other legislation, hedging transactions and many of our contract counterparties have come under increasing governmental oversight and regulations in recent years. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these laws and the related rulemaking, some of which is ongoing, existing or future regulations may adversely affect the cost and availability of our hedging arrangements, including by causing our contract counterparties, which are generally financial institutions and other market participants, to curtail or cease their derivatives activities.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and our credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk.. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of our business. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer and counterparty credit risk. We cannot predict to what extent our business would be impacted by deteriorating conditions in the economy, including declines in our customers' and counterparties' creditworthiness. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting increase in nonpayment and/or nonperformance by them could cause us to write-down or write-off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results in the periods in which they occur and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We face competition in acquiring new properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel in the oil and natural gas industry.. Our ability to acquire additional drilling locations and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 29. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which they may not be adequately insured.. There are operational risks associated with drilling for, production, gathering, transporting, storage, processing and treating of oil and natural gas and the fractionation and storage of NGLs, including:. • hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters;. • aging infrastructure and mechanical problems;. • damages to pipelines, pipeline blockages or other pipeline interruptions;. • uncontrolled releases of oil, natural gas (including sour gas), NGLs, brine or industrial chemicals;. • operator error;. • pollution and environmental risks;. • fires, explosions and blowouts;. • risks related to truck and rail loading and unloading; and. • terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of other energy companies.. Any of these risks could result in loss of human life, personal injuries, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses, and only at levels we believe to be appropriate. The location of certain segments of our facilities in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. In spite of our precautions, an event such as those described above could cause considerable harm to people or property and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. Accidents or other operating risks could further result in loss of service available to our customers.. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities or by the inability of our insurers to satisfy our claims.. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business, including environmental accidents. We do not maintain insurance in the type and amount to cover all possible risks of loss.. We currently maintain excess liability insurance that covers us, our subsidiaries and certain of our affiliates for legal and contractual liabilities arising out of bodily injury or property damage, including resulting loss of use to third parties. This excess liability insurance includes coverage for sudden and accidental pollution liability.. Although we maintain property insurance on certain physical assets that we own, lease or are responsible to insure, the policy may not cover the full replacement cost of all damaged assets. In addition, certain perils may be excluded from coverage or sub-limited. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. We may elect to self-insure a portion of our risks. All of our insurance is subject to deductibles. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. In addition, any insurance company that provides coverage to us may experience negative developments that could impair their ability to pay any of our claims. As a result, we could be exposed to greater losses than anticipated and may have to obtain replacement insurance, if available, at a greater cost.. Potential changes in accounting standards might cause us to revise our financial results and disclosures in the future, which might change the way analysts measure our business or financial performance.. Regulators and legislators continue to take a renewed look at accounting practices, financial and reserves disclosures and companies' relationships with their independent public accounting firms and reserves consultants. It remains unclear what new laws or regulations will be adopted, and we cannot predict the ultimate impact that any such new laws or regulations could have. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC could enact new accounting standards that might impact how we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. Any significant change in accounting standards or disclosure requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See recently adopted accounting standards in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. Our operating results might fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis.. Our revenues can have seasonal characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for natural gas and other fuels peaks during the winter. As a result, our overall operating results in the future might fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.. 30. Demand for natural gas and other fuels could vary significantly from our expectations depending on the nature and location of our facilities and the terms of our natural gas transportation arrangements relative to demand created by unusual weather patterns.. Our significant indebtedness reduces our financial flexibility and could impede our ability to operate.. We have historically operated with, and anticipate continuing to operate with, a significant amount of debt. Our substantial amount of debt could have important consequences for investors in our common stock, including the following:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our revolving credit facility;. • impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, letters of credit or other forms of guarantees, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes or make such financing unavailable on favorable terms;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • reduce our ability to make acquisitions or expand our business;. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds;. • limit our ability to sell assets to raise funds if needed for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes;. • make it difficult for us to pay dividends on shares of our common stock;. • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; and. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who might have relatively less debt.. Additionally, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although our revolving credit facility contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness by our subsidiaries, such restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and indebtedness incurred in compliance with such restrictions could be substantial. To the extent that new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline and it may be difficult for you to resell shares of our common stock at prices you find attractive.. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience volatility. For example, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, the high sales price per share of our common stock on the NYSE was $15.44 and the low sales price per share was $8.40. The sales price per share of our common stock has traded as low as $2.53 in the past two years. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future in response to the following events or factors that may vary over time and some of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to:. • changes in oil and natural gas prices, including in different geographic locations;. • demand for oil and natural gas;. • the success of our drilling program;. • changes in our drilling schedule;. • adjustments to our reserve estimates and differences between actual and estimated production, revenue and expenditures;. • competition from other oil and gas companies;. • costs and liabilities relating to governmental laws and regulations and environmental risks;. • general market, political and economic conditions;. • our failure to meet financial analysts' performance or financing expectations;. • changes in recommendations by financial analysts; and. • changes in market valuations of other companies in our industry.. In particular, a significant or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, our results of operations, our access to capital and the quantities of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically.. 31. Our debt agreements impose restrictions on us that may limit our access to credit and adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. Our credit facility contains various covenants that restrict or limit, among other things, our ability to grant liens, merge or sell substantially all of our assets, make investments, guarantees, loans or advances in non-subsidiaries, enter into certain hedging agreements, incur additional debt and enter into certain affiliate transactions. In addition, our credit facility contains financial covenants, including an additional financial covenant if our credit ratings are below a specified level, and other limitations with which we will need to comply and which may limit our ability to borrow under the facility. Similarly, the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our ability to grant liens to secure certain types of indebtedness and merge or sell substantially all of our assets. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in, expand or pursue our business activities and prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our current assumptions about future economic conditions turn out to be incorrect or unexpected events occur, our ability to comply with these covenants may be significantly impaired.. Our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements could result in events of default. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under a particular facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments, if any, to extend further credit. Certain payment defaults or an acceleration under one debt agreement could cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of another debt agreement. Such a cross-default or cross-acceleration could have a wider impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. If an event of default occurs, or if other debt agreements cross-default, and the lenders under the affected debt agreements accelerate the maturity of any loans or other debt outstanding to us, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay amounts outstanding under such debt agreements.. Our ability to repay, extend or refinance our debt obligations and to obtain future credit will depend primarily on our operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to refinance our debt obligations or obtain future credit will also depend upon the current conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit generally. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or obtain future credit on favorable terms, if at all, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all.. Any significant reduction in our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility as a result of periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations, and we may not have sufficient funds to repay borrowings under our revolving credit facility if required as a result of a borrowing base redetermination.. As of December 31, 2017, our revolving credit facility is subject to a borrowing base of $1.5 billion which is currently limited by total commitments of $1.2 billion. The borrowing base is subject to scheduled semiannual and other elective collateral borrowing base redeterminations based on our oil and natural gas reserves and other factors. As of December 31, 2017, we had no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, though we may elect to borrow under that facility in the future. As of December 31, 2017, we had $70 million of letters of credit issued under the credit facility and unused borrowing capacity was $1,130 million. Any significant reduction in our borrowing base as a result of borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our liquidity and our ability to fund our operations and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and cash flow. Further if, the outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility were to exceed the borrowing base as a result of any such redetermination, we would be required to repay the excess. We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we do not have sufficient funds and we are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell significant assets. Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets, the credit markets and the economy in general could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. Our business may be negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions or future disruptions in global financial markets. Included among these potential negative impacts are reduced energy demand and lower commodity prices, increased difficulty in collecting amounts owed to us by our customers and reduced access to credit markets. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise financing. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures.. 32. We are subject to risks associated with climate change.. There is a growing belief that emissions of GHGs may be linked to climate change. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing our products and services, the demand for and consumption of our products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and the economic health of the regions in which we operate, all of which can create financial risks.. In addition, legislative and regulatory responses related to GHGs and climate change create the potential for financial risk. Numerous states have announced or adopted programs to stabilize and reduce GHGs, as well as their own reporting requirements. On September 22, 2009, the EPA finalized a GHG reporting rule that requires large sources of GHG emissions to monitor, maintain records on, and annually report their GHG emissions. On November 8, 2010, the EPA also issued GHG monitoring and reporting regulations specifically for oil and natural gas facilities, including onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year-the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program. The rule requires annual reporting of GHG emissions by regulated facilities to the EPA. We are required to report our GHG emissions to the EPA each year in March under this rule, and the EPA publishes the data on its website. The EPA has also enacted permitting requirements for GHG emissions under the CAA for certain stationary sources and newer modification projects. In March 2014, the White House published the President's Climate Action Plan Strategy to Reduce Methane Emissions. In August 2015, EPA issued a suite of proposed regulations applicable to the oil and gas sector to decrease methane emissions. There have also been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of GHGs. Increased public awareness and concern may result in more state, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate GHG emissions.. The actions of the EPA and the passage of any federal or state climate change laws or regulations could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any GHG emissions program. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of and access to capital. Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change could also affect the markets for our products by making our products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy.. Our operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities that could exceed current expectations.. Substantial costs, liabilities, delays and other significant issues could arise from environmental laws and regulations affecting drilling and well completion, gathering, transportation, and storage, and we may incur substantial costs and liabilities in the performance of these types of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, the discharge of materials into the environment and the security of chemical and industrial facilities. These laws include:. • Clean Air Act (\"CAA\") and analogous state laws, which impose obligations related to air emissions;. • Clean Water Act (\"CWA\"), and analogous state laws, which regulate discharge of wastewaters and storm water from some our facilities into state and federal waters, including wetlands;. • Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (\"CERCLA\"), and analogous state laws, which regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal;. • Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (\"RCRA\"), and analogous state laws, which impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities;. • National Environmental Policy Act (\"NEPA\"), which requires federal agencies to study likely environmental impacts of a proposed federal action before it is approved, such as drilling on federal lands;. • Safe Drinking Water Act (\"SDWA\"), which restricts the disposal, treatment or release of water produced or used during oil and gas development;. • Endangered Species Act (\"ESA\"), and analogous state laws, which seek to ensure that activities do not jeopardize endangered or threatened animals, fish and plant species, nor destroy or modify the critical habitat of such species; and. • Oil Pollution Act (\"OPA\") of 1990, which requires oil storage facilities and vessels to submit to the federal government plans detailing how they will respond to large discharges, requires updates to technology and equipment, regulation of above ground storage tanks and sets forth liability for spills by responsible parties.. 33. Various governmental authorities, including the EPA, the U.S. Department of the Interior, the Bureau of Indian Affairs and analogous state agencies and tribal governments, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations, delays in granting permits and cancellation of leases.. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business, some of which may be material, due to the handling of our products as they are gathered, transported, processed and stored, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations, and water and waste disposal practices. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations, including CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws, for the remediation of contaminated areas and in connection with spills or releases of oil, natural gas and wastes on, under, or from our properties and facilities. Private parties may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. In addition, Non-Governmental Organizations who oppose the development of fossil fuels for a number of reasons, including environmental concerns, have recently increased their activities in ways outside the normal legal process by staging protests and demonstrations in a way that may disrupt our ability to conduct our operations and market our production. To date, most of this activity has been related to issues associated with the development of infrastructure but the possibility exists that these activities could be directed to other aspects of our business.. Some sites at which we operate are located near current or former third-party oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could materially increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us.. In March 2010, the EPA announced its National Enforcement Initiatives for 2011 to 2013, which were extended by the EPA for fiscal years 2014 to 2016 and now through 2019, which include Energy Extraction and \"Ensuring Energy Extraction Activities Comply with Environmental Laws.\" The EPA has settled a number of high-impact cases under this initiative resulting in significant air emissions reductions, and will continue to identify the best ways to address pollution through greater use of advanced pollution monitoring and reporting techniques. This initiative could involve a large-scale investigation of our facilities and processes, and could lead to potential enforcement actions, penalties or injunctive relief against us.. Our business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control equipment requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. Also, we might not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operations. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation or construction of our facilities could be prevented or become subject to additional costs.. We are generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses.. We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible expenditures related to environmental conditions based on current laws and regulations and current interpretations of those laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or regulations, or the laws and regulations themselves, change, our assumptions may change, and new capital costs may be incurred to comply with such changes. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations might adversely affect our products and activities, including drilling, processing, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air emissions. For instance, the Obama administration issued a suite of proposed regulations to cut methane emissions from the oil and gas sector in August 2015 to petroleum-sector methane emissions 40 to 45 percent by 2025 from 2012 levels. EPA issued its proposed rules for new and modified wells in 2015 and finalized them in 2016. The Interior Department submitted proposed rules to the Office of Management and Budget in the fall of 2015 aimed at reducing methane flaring at wells on federal land, and the rule went into effect on January 17, 2017; the Department of Energy is to develop new ways to detect and repair methane leaks; and the Department of Transportation developed new pipeline safety standards issued January 13, 2017 that also reduce leaks. In addition, federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect our profitability.. 34. Legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into rock formations in order to stimulate natural gas production. We find that the use of hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas from many reservoirs. Recently, there has been heightened debate about the hydraulic fracturing process and proposals have been made to revisit the environmental exemption for hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or to enact separate federal legislation or legislation at the state and local government levels that would regulate hydraulic fracturing. If adopted, this legislation could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal, state or local levels, and could make it easier for third parties opposed to the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect the environment, including groundwater, soil or surface water. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways, with the EPA having finalized a multi-year study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The EPA published its Final \"Assessment of the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas on Drinking Water Resources\" on December 13, 2016. In August 2015, the EPA published its Final 2014 Effluent Guidelines Program Plans under the CWA confirming its intention to regulate wastewater discharges from on-shore unconventional oil and gas extraction and to specifically investigate centralized water treatment facilities that accept oil and gas extraction wastewaters. In addition to the EPA study, the Shale Gas Subcommittee of the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board issued a final report on hydraulic fracturing in November 2011, which includes recommendations to address concerns related to hydraulic fracturing and shale gas production, including but not limited to conducting additional field studies on possible methane leakage from shale gas wells to water reservoirs and adopting new rules and enforcement practices to protect drinking and surface waters.. Several states have adopted or considered legislation requiring the disclosure of fracturing fluids and other restrictions on hydraulic fracturing, including states in which we operate (e.g., Colorado, Texas, North Dakota and New Mexico). Certain organizations have prompted ballot initiatives at the local level that are directed at imposing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing, and such ballot initiatives may be attempted on a wider basis in one or more states where we operate. The U.S. Department of the Interior issued its final rules considering disclosure requirements or other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal land, which, if adopted, would affect our operations on federal lands. In June 2016, a federal judge held that the BLM had no authority to issue such regulations, and the decision was appealed to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. On December 29, 2017, the BLM rescinded the rule. If new federal or state laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could result in delays, eliminate certain drilling and injection activities, make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business as well as delay or prevent the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing.. Our ability to produce oil and natural gas could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling and completion operations or are unable to dispose of the water we use at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules.. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our exploration and production operations, could adversely impact our operations in our Delaware Basin, San Juan Basin and Williston Basin operations. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. The CWA imposes restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of produced waters and other natural gas and oil waste into navigable waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants to waters and to conduct construction activities in waters and wetlands. The CWA and similar state laws provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for any unauthorized discharges of pollutants and unauthorized discharges of reportable quantities of oil and other hazardous substances. Many state discharge regulations and the Federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System general permits issued by the EPA prohibit the discharge of produced water and sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings and certain other substances related to the natural gas and oil industry into coastal waters. The EPA has also adopted regulations requiring certain natural gas and oil exploration and production facilities to obtain permits for storm water discharges. In August 2015, the EPA published its Final 2014 Effluent Guidelines Program Plans under the CWA confirming its intention to regulate wastewater discharges from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction and to specifically investigate centralized water treatment facilities that accept oil and gas extraction wastewaters. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted.. Legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations relating to the energy industry, and the complex government regulations to which our businesses are subject, have adversely affected our business and may continue to do so. The. 35. operation of our businesses might also be adversely affected by changes in regulations or in their interpretation or implementation, or the introduction of new laws, regulations or permitting requirements applicable to our businesses or our customers.. Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry has resulted in increased regulations being either proposed or implemented. Adverse effects may continue as a result of the uncertainty of ongoing inquiries, investigations and court proceedings, or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings against us, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other regulatory action, including legislation or increased permitting requirements. Current legal proceedings or other matters against us, including environmental matters, suits, regulatory appeals, challenges to our permits by citizen groups and similar matters, might result in adverse decisions against us. The result of such adverse decisions, either individually or in the aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or at all by insurance.. In addition, existing regulations might be revised or reinterpreted, new laws, regulations and permitting requirements might be adopted or become applicable to us, our facilities, our customers, our vendors or our service providers, and future changes in laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, several ruptures on third-party pipelines have occurred recently. In response, various legislative and regulatory reforms associated with pipeline safety and integrity have been proposed, including new regulations covering gathering pipelines that have not previously been subject to regulation. Such reforms, if adopted, could significantly increase our costs.. Certain of our properties, including our operations in the Williston Basin and San Juan Basin, are located on Native American tribal lands and are subject to various federal and tribal approvals and regulations, which may increase our costs and delay or prevent our efforts to conduct planned operations.. Various federal agencies within the U.S. Department of the Interior, particularly the Bureau of Indian Affairs, BLM and the Office of Natural Resources Revenue, along with each Native American tribe, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to oil and gas operations on Native American tribal lands. These regulations and approval requirements relate to such matters as lease provisions, drilling and production requirements, environmental standards and royalty considerations. In addition, each Native American tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce laws and regulations and to grant approvals independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. These tribal laws and regulations include various taxes, fees, requirements to employ Native American tribal members and other conditions that apply to lessees, operators and contractors conducting operations on Native American tribal lands. Lessees and operators conducting operations on tribal lands are generally subject to the Native American tribal court system. In addition, if our relationships with any of the relevant Native American tribes were to deteriorate, we could face significant risks to our ability to continue the projected development of our leases on Native American tribal lands. One or more of these factors may increase our costs of doing business on Native American tribal lands and impact the viability of, or prevent or delay our ability to conduct, our oil or natural gas development and production operations on such lands.. Our liabilities could be adversely affected in the event one or more of our transaction counterparties ceases to perform.. We have taken actions in recent years to enhance and streamline our asset portfolio through the divestitures of noncore assets and the monetization of certain nonstrategic assets. The agreements relating to these transactions contain provisions pursuant to which liabilities related to past and future operations have been allocated between the parties by means of liability assumptions, indemnities, escrows and similar arrangements. One or more of the counterparties in these transactions could, either as a result of  a decline in oil or natural gas prices or other factors related to the historical or future operations of their respective businesses, face financial problems that may have a significant impact on its ability to perform its obligations under these agreements and its solvency and ability to continue as a going concern. In the event that any such counterparty were to become unable financially to perform its liabilities or obligations assumed and as a result become the subject of a case or proceeding under relevant insolvency laws or similar laws (which we collectively refer to as Insolvency Laws) the counterparty may not perform its obligations under the agreements related to these transactions. In that case, our remedy would be a claim in a bankruptcy proceeding or a direct action for damages for the breach of the contractual arrangement. Resolution of our damage claim in such a proceeding may be delayed or unsuccessful, and we may be forced to use available cash to cover the costs of the obligations assumed by the counterparties under such agreements should they arise.. Despite the provisions in our agreements requiring purchasers of our leasehold interests to assume certain liabilities and obligations related to such interests, if a purchaser of such interests becomes the subject of a case or proceeding under relevant Insolvency Laws and/or becomes unable financially to perform such liabilities or obligations, applicable local law and/or relevant governmental authorities could require us to perform, and hold us responsible for, such liabilities and obligations, such as the decommissioning of such transferred assets. In such event, we may be forced to use available cash to cover the costs of such liabilities and obligations should they arise.. 36. If a court or a governmental authority were to make any of the foregoing determinations or take any of the foregoing actions, or any similar determination or action, or in circumstances where we determined that applicable law required us to perform the obligations of a counterparty, the result of such actions or circumstances could adversely impact our cash flows, operations, or financial condition.. Tax laws and regulations may change over time, including changes to certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and production.. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation, and the tax laws and regulations to which we are subject may change over time. Our tax filings are based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various jurisdictions for the periods for which the filings are made. If these laws or regulations change, or if the taxing authorities do not agree with our interpretation, it could have a material adverse effect on us.. In recent years, leaders in government have proposed changes to certain federal income tax provisions currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Domestic energy-related changes generally discussed include, but are not limited to, (i) elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling and development costs in the year incurred;(ii) extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures; and (iii) technical corrections or other subsequent revisions to recently enacted Tax Reform legislation. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective. Changes to federal tax deductions, as well as any changes to or the imposition of new state or local taxes (including production, severance, or similar taxes) could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our acquisition attempts may not be successful or may result in completed acquisitions that do not perform as anticipated.. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions of businesses and properties. However, suitable acquisition candidates may not continue to be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. The following are some of the risks associated with acquisitions, including any completed or future acquisitions:. • some of the acquired businesses or properties may not produce revenues, reserves, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels or could have environmental, permitting or other problems for which contractual protections prove inadequate;. • we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us or that exceed our estimates;. • properties we acquire may be subject to burdens on title that we were not aware of at the time of acquisition or that interfere with our ability to hold the property for production;. • we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems;. • acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures; and. • we may issue additional equity or debt securities related to future acquisitions.. Substantial acquisitions or other transactions could require significant external capital and could change our risk and property profile.. In order to finance acquisitions of additional producing or undeveloped properties, we may need to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities, the sale of production payments or other means. These changes in capitalization may significantly affect our risk profile. Additionally, significant acquisitions or other transactions can change the character of our operations and business. The character of the new properties may be substantially different in operating or geological characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain external funding for future acquisitions or other transactions or to obtain external funding on terms acceptable to us.. Failure of our service providers or disruptions to our outsourcing relationships might negatively impact our ability to conduct our business.. Some studies indicate a high failure rate of outsourcing relationships. A deterioration in the timeliness or quality of the services performed by the outsourcing providers or a failure of all or part of these relationships could lead to loss of institutional knowledge and interruption of services necessary for us to be able to conduct our business. The expiration of such agreements or the transition of services between providers could lead to similar losses of institutional knowledge or disruptions.. Our assets and operations can be adversely affected by weather and other natural phenomena.. 37. Our assets and operations can be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and other natural phenomena and weather conditions, including extreme temperatures. Insurance may be inadequate, and in some instances, it may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. A significant disruption in operations or a significant liability for which we were not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change or demand is impacted by regulations associated with climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes, leading either to increased investment or decreased revenues.. Acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our assets and the assets of our customers and others may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our business or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or partial disruption to the ability to produce, process, transport or distribute oil, natural gas, or NGLs. Acts of terrorism as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with acts of terrorism could cause environmental repercussions that could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs.. Cyber attacks targeting our systems and infrastructure may adversely impact our operations.. Our industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct daily operations. Concurrently, the industry has become the subject of increased levels of cyber-attack activity. Cyber attacks often attempt to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption and may be carried out by third parties or insiders. The techniques utilized range from highly sophisticated efforts to electronically circumvent network security to more traditional intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information necessary to gain access. Cyber attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as by causing denial-of-service attacks. Although we have not suffered material losses related to cyber attacks to date, if we were successfully attacked, we could incur substantial remediation and other costs or suffer other negative consequences. Moreover, as the sophistication of cyber attacks continues to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to further enhance our digital security or to remediate vulnerabilities.. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial health, and may decrease our profitability.. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. If our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. More financing may also be necessary if we are unable to execute dispositions of assets that are underperforming or which are no longer a part of our strategic focus. However, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of our preferred stock, the terms of the debt or our preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. If we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, your ownership in us would be diluted. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial health, which could negatively affect your investment in us.. We continue to be subject to a tax-sharing agreement with The Williams Companies, Inc. (\"Williams\").. Prior to our spin-off from Williams on December 31, 2011, Williams received an opinion of its outside tax advisor as well as a private letter ruling from the IRS holding that the spin-off will not result in the recognition, for federal income tax purposes, of income, gain or loss to Williams and Williams' stockholders. Under the tax sharing agreement with Williams that we executed as part of the spin-off, we are required to indemnify Williams against tax-related liabilities that may be incurred by Williams relating to the spin-off, to the extent caused by a breach of any representations or covenants we made with respect to the spin-off and relied upon in the tax opinion or private letter ruling. The IRS is currently auditing Williams' 2011 consolidated federal income tax return that includes the spin-off.. For any tax periods ending on or before the spin-off, we and our U.S. subsidiaries were included in Williams' consolidated group for federal income tax purposes. Under the tax sharing agreement with Williams, for each period in which we were consolidated with Williams for purposes of any tax return, a pro forma tax return was prepared for us as if we filed our own consolidated return. The only open federal tax period for which we are still subject to the tax sharing agreement with Williams is 2011. For any adjustments to the 2011 pro forma tax return we will reimburse Williams for any additional taxes shown on the pro forma tax return, and Williams will reimburse us for reductions in the taxes shown on the pro forma tax. 38. return. We also have deferred tax assets that Williams was required to allocate to us by the Internal Revenue Code that could decrease or increase due to adjustments that change those allocations, whether or not related to our business. Williams effectively controls all tax decisions in connection with their 2011 consolidated income tax return. Thus, Williams will be able to choose whether to contest, compromise or settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed by the relevant taxing authority in a manner that may be beneficial to Williams and detrimental to us.. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of Williams that we did not assume in our agreements.. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for retained liabilities of Williams. Under our agreements with Williams, Williams agreed to indemnify us for claims and losses relating to these retained liabilities. However, if those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover the full amount of our losses from Williams.. Our prior and continuing relationship with Williams exposes us to risks attributable to businesses of Williams.. Williams is obligated to indemnify us for losses that a party may seek to impose upon us or our affiliates for liabilities relating to the business of Williams that are incurred through a breach of the separation and distribution agreement or any ancillary agreement by Williams or its affiliates other than us, or losses that are attributable to Williams in connection with the spin-off or are not expressly assumed by us under our agreements with Williams. Any claims made against us that are properly attributable to Williams in accordance with these arrangements would require us to exercise our rights under our agreements with Williams to obtain payment from Williams. We are exposed to the risk that, in these circumstances, Williams cannot, or will not, make the required payment.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Future issuances of our common stock may depress the price of our common stock.. In the future, we may issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding shares of our common stock.. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, you will need to sell your shares of common stock to receive any income or realize a return on your investment.. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock may be limited by the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (\"DGCL\"). The future payment of dividends will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other considerations that our Board of Directors deems relevant. As a result, to receive any income or realize a return on your investment, you will need to sell your shares of common stock. You may not be able to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them.. Provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable or may prevent efforts by our stockholders to change our directors or our management, which could decrease the value of your shares.. Section 203 of the DGCL and provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include the following:. • restrictions on business combinations for a three-year period with a stockholder who becomes the beneficial owner of more than 15 percent of our common stock;. • restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors; and. • supermajority voting requirements for stockholders to amend our organizational documents.. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Further, these provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through unsolicited transactions that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. As a result, efforts by our stockholders to change our directors or our management may be unsuccessful.. 39. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryovers for income tax purposes to reduce future. taxable income as well as our ability to utilize our minimum tax credit (\"MTC\") carryovers will be limited if we undergo an ownership change.. Beginning with our 2015 tax year and continuing with our 2016 and 2017 tax years we generated an NOL that is being carried forward to future years. In addition, we have MTC carryovers available for future reductions in federal income tax or refunds. In the event that we were to undergo an \"ownership change\" (as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\")), our NOL and MTC carryovers generated prior to the ownership change would be subject to annual limitations, which could defer utilization or in the case of our NOL carryovers, eliminate our ability to utilize these tax losses against future taxable income. Generally, an \"ownership change\" occurs if one or more shareholders, each of whom owns 5% or more in value of a corporation's stock, increase their aggregate percentage ownership by more than 50% over the lowest percentage of stock owned by those shareholders at any time during the preceding three-year period. See the Critical Accounting Estimates section of Item 7 for further discussion of our Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities.. 40"
