[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. We are affected by risks specific to us as well as factors that affect all businesses operating in a global market.  In addition to the other information set forth in this report, careful consideration should be taken of the factors described below, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.  The risk factors described below may relate solely to one or more of the legal entities contained in our corporate structure and may not necessarily apply to Wright Medical Group N.V. or one or more of the other legal entities contained in our corporate structure.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have a history of operating losses and may never achieve or sustain profitability.. We have a history of operating losses and at December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.4 billion.  Our ability to achieve profitability will be influenced by many factors, including, among others, the success of the Wright/Tornier merger; the level and timing of future net sales and expenditures; development, commercialization and market acceptance of new products; the results and scope of ongoing research and development projects; competing technologies and market developments; regulatory requirements and delays; and pending litigation.  As a result, we may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future.  These losses will continue to have an adverse impact on our shareholders' equity, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability.. We may never realize the expected benefits from the Wright/Tornier merger, the divestiture of the OrthoRecon business, and our strategy to become a profitable, high-growth, pure-play medical technology company, and command the market valuation typically accorded such companies.. The Wright/Tornier merger and the divestiture of the OrthoRecon business are part of our strategy to transform ourselves into a profitable, high-growth, pure-play medical technology company, and command the market valuation typically accorded such companies.  If we are unable to achieve our growth and profitability objectives due to competition, lack of acceptance of our products, failure to gain regulatory approvals, or other risks as described in this section or other sections of this report, or due to other events, we will not be successful in transforming our business and will not be accorded the market valuation we seek.  Moreover, the OrthoRecon business generated substantial revenue and cash flow, which we have not replaced.  While over time we expect to replace the OrthoRecon revenue and cash flow by accelerating higher margin revenue streams from extremities and biologic products, especially in light of the Wright/Tornier merger, there is still a risk we will be unable to replace the revenue and cash flow that the OrthoRecon business generated, or that the cost of such will be higher than expected.  If we are unable to achieve our profit and growth objectives, such failure will be exacerbated by the loss of revenue and cash flow generated by the OrthoRecon business, and could result in a decline in our stock price.. We may never realize the expected benefits of our strategic business combinations or acquisition transactions.. In addition to developing new products and growing our business internally, we have sought to grow through business combinations and acquisitions of complementary businesses, technologies and products.  Examples include, our recent acquisition of IMASCAP in December 2017, the Wright/Tornier merger in October 2015, legacy Wright's acquisition of BioMimetic in early 2013, as well as its acquisitions of Biotech International in November 2013, Solana Surgical, LLC (Solana) in January 2014, and OrthoPro, L.L.C. (OrthoPro) in February 2014, and legacy Tornier's acquisition of OrthoHelix Surgical Designs, Inc. in 2012. Future acquisitions may require equity or debt financing, the dilutive or other effects of which could negatively impact the anticipated benefits of the transaction. Business combinations and acquiring new businesses involve a myriad of risks.  Whenever new businesses are combined or acquired, there is a risk we may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the transaction.  This can occur if integration of the businesses proves to be more complicated than planned, resulting in failure to realize operational synergies and/or failure to mitigate operational dis-synergies, diversion of management attention, and loss of key personnel.  It can also occur if the combined or acquired business fails to meet our net sales projections, exposes us to unexpected liabilities, or if our pre-acquisition due diligence fails to uncover issues that negatively affect the value or cost structure of the acquired enterprise.  Although we carefully plan our business combinations and acquisitions, there can be no assurances that these and other risks will not prevent us from realizing the expected benefits of these transactions. If we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition as rapidly as expected, or at all, investors or analysts may not perceive the same benefits of the acquisition as we do. If these risks materialize, our ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. Any difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses or unexpected penalties or liabilities in connection with such businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. We anticipate significant future sales from our AUGMENT® Bone Graft products.  If we are wrong, our future operating results, cash flows, and prospects could be adversely affected.. We obtained FDA approval of AUGMENT® Bone Graft in the United States for ankle and/or hindfoot fusion indications during the third quarter of 2015 and expect significant future sales from this product.  AUGMENT® Bone Graft, which is based on recombinant human platelet-derived growth factor (rhPDGF-BB), a synthetic copy of one of the body's principal healing agents, is currently available for sale as an alternative to autograft in the United States for ankle and/or hindfoot fusion indications, in Canada for foot and ankle fusion indications and in Australia and New Zealand for hindfoot and ankle fusion indications. We. 17. Table of Contents. anticipate significant sales of AUGMENT® Bone Graft.  If these sales expectations are not met, our future operating results, cash flows and prospects could be adversely affected.  We are currently pursuing FDA approval of AUGMENT® Injectable Bone Graft (AUGMENT® Injectable), which combines rhPDGF-BB with an injectable bone matrix. We expect FDA approval of AUGMENT® Injectable in 2018 and, if and when approved, anticipate significant sales of AUGMENT® Injectable. However, there can be no assurance that AUGMENT® Injectable will receive FDA approval in 2018, if ever.  Failure to obtain FDA approval of AUGMENT® Injectable could adversely affect our future operating results, cash flows and prospects.. We acquired the AUGMENT® Bone Graft product line from BioMimetic in March 2013 and are subject to future milestone payments to the holders of the contingent value rights issued in connection with that transaction.  If, prior to March 1, 2019, sales of AUGMENT® Bone Graft reach $40 million over 12 consecutive months, a cash payment would be required at $1.50 per share, or $42 million.  Further, if, prior to March 1, 2019, sales of AUGMENT® Bone Graft reach $70 million over 12 consecutive months, an additional cash payment would be required at $1.50 per share, or $42 million.  Therefore, even if we achieve significant sales of AUGMENT® Bone Graft, cash proceeds from these sales will be offset in part by these milestone payment obligations.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the 2017 additions to our direct U.S. lower extremities and biologics sales force within the time frame we expect, or ever, which could harm our business and operating results.. During the first half of 2017, we added new U.S. lower extremities and biologics sales representatives to our core U.S. lower extremities and core biologics businesses.  Recruiting and training qualified personnel requires significant time, expense and attention. While we continue to believe these additions will help grow our U.S. lower extremities and biologics sales, there are no assurances that this initiative will ultimately yield favorable results for us in the near future or at all. Our business may be adversely affected if our new U.S. lower extremities and biologics sales representatives are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period.. We may not achieve our financial guidance or projected goals and objectives in the time periods that we anticipate or announce publicly, which could have an adverse effect on our business and could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline.. We typically provide projected financial information, such as our anticipated annual net sales, adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization.  These financial projections are based on management's then current expectations and typically do not contain any significant margin of error or cushion for any specific uncertainties or for the uncertainties inherent in all financial forecasting.  The failure to achieve our financial projections or the projections of analysts and investors could have an adverse effect on our business, disappoint analysts and investors, and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline.  Our net sales performance has been outside of our guidance range in certain quarters, which negatively impacted the market price of our ordinary shares, and could do so in the future should our results fall below our guidance range and the expectations of analysts and investors.. We also set goals and objectives for, and make public statements regarding, the timing of certain accomplishments and milestones regarding our business or operating results, such as the timing of financial objectives, new products, regulatory actions, pending litigation, and anticipated distributor and sales representative transitions.  The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this report.  As a result, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in achieving our projected goals and objectives in the time periods that we anticipate or announce publicly.  The failure to achieve such projected goals and objectives in the time periods that we anticipate or announce publicly could have an adverse effect on our business, disappoint investors and analysts, and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline.. Our quarterly operating results are subject to substantial fluctuations, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future results.. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly due to a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control.  These factors include:. • demand for products, which historically has been lowest in the third quarter;. • our ability to meet the demand for our products;. • the level of competition;. • the number, timing, and significance of new products and product introductions and enhancements by us and our competitors;. • our ability to develop, introduce, and market new and enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis;. • the timing of or failure to obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for products;. • changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors;. • changes in the treatment practices of orthopaedic surgeons;. • changes in distributor relationships and sales force size and composition;. • the timing of material expense- or income-generating events and the related recognition of their associated financial impact;. • the number and mix of products sold in the quarter and the geographies in which they are sold;. 18. Table of Contents. • the number of selling days;. • the availability and cost of components and materials;. • prevailing interest rates on our excess cash investments;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. • the timing of significant orders and shipments;. • ability to obtain reimbursement for our products and the timing of patients' use of their calendar year medical insurance deductibles;. • work stoppages or strikes in the healthcare industry;. • changes in FDA and foreign governmental regulatory policies, requirements, and enforcement practices;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, estimates, and treatments;. • restructuring, impairment, and other special charges, costs associated with our pending litigation and U.S. governmental inquiries, and other charges;. • variations in cost of sales due to the amount and timing of excess and obsolete inventory charges, commodity prices, and manufacturing variances;. • income tax fluctuations and changes in tax rules;. • general economic factors; and. • increases of interest rates, which can increase the cost of borrowings under our ABL Credit Agreement, and generally affect the level of economic activity.. We believe our quarterly sales and operating results may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance.  We cannot assure you that our sales will increase or be sustained in future periods or that we will be profitable in any future period.  Any shortfalls in sales or earnings from levels expected by securities or orthopaedic industry analysts could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our ordinary shares in any given period.. Although legacy Wright divested the OrthoRecon business, legacy Wright remains responsible, as between it and MicroPort, for liability claims on OrthoRecon products sold prior to closing, and might still be sued on products sold after closing.. Although OrthoRecon product liability expenses are accounted for under our discontinued operations, the agreement between WMG and MicroPort requires that legacy Wright, as between it and MicroPort, retain responsibility for product liability claims on OrthoRecon products sold prior to closing, and for any resulting settlements, judgments, or other costs.  Moreover, even though MicroPort, as between it and legacy Wright, is responsible for liability claims on post-closing sales, there can be no assurance we will not be named as a defendant in a lawsuit relating to such post-closing sales, or that MicroPort will have adequate resources to exonerate legacy Wright from any resulting expenses or liabilities.. Product liability lawsuits could harm our business and adversely affect our operating results or results from discontinued operations and financial condition if adverse outcomes exceed our product liability insurance coverage.. The manufacture and sale of medical devices expose us to significant risk of product liability claims.  We are currently defendants in a number of product liability matters, including those relating to the OrthoRecon business, which legacy Wright divested to MicroPort in 2014.  Legacy Wright remains responsible, as between it and MicroPort, for claims associated with products sold before divesting the OrthoRecon business to MicroPort.. We have been named as a defendant, in some cases with multiple other defendants, in lawsuits in which it is alleged that as yet unspecified defects in the design, manufacture, or labeling of certain metal-on-metal hip replacement products rendered the products defective.  The pre-trial management of certain of these claims has been consolidated in the federal court system, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia under multi-district litigation and certain other claims by the Judicial Counsel Coordinated Proceedings in state court in Los Angeles County, California.  As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 800 lawsuits pending in the multi-district federal court proceeding and consolidated California state court proceeding, and an additional 50 cases pending in various state courts.  As of that date, we have also entered into approximately 700 so called \"tolling agreements\" with potential claimants who have not yet filed suit.  As of December 31, 2017, there were also approximately 50 non-U.S. lawsuits presently pending.  We believe we have data that supports the efficacy and safety of the metal-on-metal hip replacement systems, and have been vigorously defending these cases.. While continuing to dispute liability, on November 1, 2016, WMT entered into a Master Settlement Agreement (MSA) with Court-appointed attorneys representing plaintiffs in the MDL and JCCP.  Under the terms of the MSA, the parties agreed to settle 1,292 specifically identified claims associated with CONSERVE®, DYNASTY® and LINEAGE® products that meet the eligibility requirements of the MSA and are either pending in the MDL or JCCP, or subject to court-approved tolling agreements in the MDL or JCCP, for a settlement amount of $240 million.  Due to apparent demand from additional claimants excluded from settlement because of the 1,292 claim ceiling, but otherwise eligible for participation, on May 15, 2017, WMT agreed to settle an additional 53 such claims, on terms substantially identical to the MSA settlement terms, for a maximum additional settlement amount of $9.4 million.. 19. Table of Contents. On October 3, 2017, WMT entered into two settlement agreements (collectively, the Second Settlement Agreements) with the Court-appointed attorneys representing plaintiffs in the MDL and JCCP.  Under the terms of the Second Settlement Agreements, the parties agreed to settle 629 specifically identified CONSERVE®, DYNASTY® and LINEAGE® claims that meet the eligibility requirements of the Second Settlement Agreements and are either pending in the MDL or JCCP, or subject to court-approved tolling agreements in the MDL or JCCP, for a maximum settlement amount of $89.75 million.  The comprehensive settlement amount is contingent on WMT's recovery of new insurance proceeds totaling at least $35 million from applicable insurance carriers by March 30, 2018.  To date, certain of the insurance carriers have contributed or agreed to contribute $20 million of funds applicable against the contingency.. Claims for personal injury have also been made against us associated with fractures of legacy Wright's PROFEMUR® long titanium modular neck product.  We believe that the overall fracture rate for the product is low and the fractures appear, at least in part, to relate to patient demographics, and have been vigorously defending these matters.  While continuing to dispute liability, we have been open to settling these claims in circumstances where we believe the settlement amount is reasonable relative to the risk and expense of litigation.. Our material product liability litigation is discussed in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements.  These matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. Regardless of the outcome of these matters, legal defenses are costly.  We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial legal expenses in connection with the defense of these matters.  We could incur significant liabilities associated with adverse outcomes that exceed our products liability insurance coverage, which could adversely affect our operating results or results from discontinued operations and financial condition.  The ultimate cost to us with respect to product liability claims could be materially different than the amount of the current estimates and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or results from discontinued operations, and cash flows.. In the future, we may be subject to additional product liability claims.  We also could experience a material design or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure, other safety issues, or heightened regulatory scrutiny that would warrant a recall of some of our products.  Product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts and product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could result in decreased demand for our products, injury to our reputation, significant litigation and other costs, substantial monetary awards to or costly settlements with patients, product recalls, loss of revenue, and the inability to commercialize new products or product candidates, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers.. Our obligation to settle substantially all the remaining outstanding metal-on-metal hip claims may be cancelled if an insufficient number of eligible claimants choose to participate, which would leave a substantial number of metal-on-metal hip claims unresolved.. Each of the Second Settlement Agreements contains a 95% opt-in requirement meaning WMT may terminate either Settlement Agreement prior to any settlement disbursement if claimants holding greater than 5% of eligible claims in Tranches 1 and 2, collectively, or claimants holding greater than 5% of eligible claims in Tranche 3, elect to \"opt-out\" of the settlement.  We believe a participation rate of at least 95% is necessary in order to realize the benefits of the Second Settlement Agreements.  On January 2, 2018, we received notification that 100% of the claimants in Tranches 1 and 2 opted in. We are currently reviewing proof of claim documentation for these claimants and have until March 2, 2018 to confirm that the 95% opt-in requirement has been met. Claimants in Tranche 3 have until April 2, 2018 to opt into the Second Settlement Agreements. If a 95% participation rate is not achieved with respect to both Settlement Agreements there is a significant risk the Second Settlement Agreements will be cancelled.  If the Second Settlement Agreements are cancelled we will be required to continue defending the 629 claims that would otherwise be settled, and the previously disclosed risks, uncertainties and contingencies associated with these claims will remain unresolved.. Our obligation to settle substantially all the remaining outstanding metal-on-metal hip claims may be cancelled if the insurance recovery contingency contained in the Second Settlement Agreements is not satisfied, which would leave a substantial number of metal-on-metal hip claims unresolved.. Under the terms of the Second Settlement Agreements, the parties agreed to settle 629 specifically identified CONSERVE®, DYNASTY® and LINEAGE® claims that meet the eligibility requirements of the Second Settlement Agreements and are either pending in the MDL or JCCP, or subject to court-approved tolling agreements in the MDL or JCCP, for a maximum settlement amount of $89.75 million.  The comprehensive settlement amount is contingent on WMT's receiving new insurance proceeds totaling at least $35 million from applicable insurance carriers by March 30, 2018 and may be cancelled by us if this does not occur.  To date, certain of the insurance carriers have contributed or agreed to contribute $20 million of funds applicable against the contingency.  WMT may cancel its obligation to settle 541 claims included in Tranche 3 of the Second Settlement Agreements if the foregoing insurance recovery contingency is not satisfied in its entirety.  If the obligation to settle these Tranche 3 claims is cancelled, we will be required to continue defending the Tranche 3 claims that would otherwise be settled in which case the previously disclosed risks, uncertainties and contingencies associated with these claims will remain unresolved.. Our agreement with the first three insurance carriers to settle pending coverage litigation includes broad releases of coverage for present and future claims of personal injury alleged to be caused by metal-on-metal hip components or the release of metal. 20. Table of Contents. ions, which could result in inadequate insurance coverage to defend and resolve these claims.  In addition, our settlement with the three carriers does not resolve previously disclosed disputes with the remaining carriers concerning the extent of coverage available for metal-on-metal hip claims.. On October 28, 2016, our WMT and WMG subsidiaries entered into a Settlement Agreement with a subgroup of three insurance carriers, Columbia Casualty Company (Columbia), St. Paul Surplus Lines Insurance Company and AXIS Surplus Lines Insurance Company (Three Settling Insurers), pursuant to which the Three Settling Insurers paid $60 million (in addition to $10 million previously paid) in full settlement of all potential liability of the Three Settling Insurers for metal ion and metal-on-metal hip claims, including but not limited to all claims in the MDL and the JCCP.  As part of the settlement, the Three Settling Insurers repurchased their policies in the five policy years beginning with the 2007-2008 policy year. Consequently, we have no further coverage from the Three Settling Insurers for present or future metal-on-metal or metal ion claims falling in these five policy periods, or any other period in which a specifically released claim is asserted.. Our existing product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur.. If the product liability claims brought against us involve uninsured liabilities or result in liabilities that exceed our insurance coverage, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.  Further, such product liability matters may negatively impact our ability to obtain insurance coverage or cost-effective insurance coverage in future periods.  We remain in litigation with certain insurance carriers other than the Three Settling Insurers, concerning the amount of coverage available to satisfy potential liabilities associated with the metal-on-metal hip claims against us.  An unfavorable outcome in this litigation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results from discontinued operations if we ultimately are subject to liabilities associated with these claims that exceed coverage amounts not in dispute.. In addition, on September 29, 2015, we received notice that the third insurance carrier in the tower for product liability insurance coverage relating to personal injury claims associated with fractures of legacy Wright's PROFEMUR® long titanium modular neck product (Modular Neck Claims) has asserted that the terms and conditions identified in its reservation of rights will preclude coverage for the Modular Neck Claims.  We strongly dispute the carrier's position and, in accordance with the dispute resolution provisions of the policy, have initiated an arbitration proceeding in London, England seeking payment of these funds.  We continue to believe our contracts with our insurance carriers are enforceable for these claims; however, we would be responsible for any amounts that our insurance carriers do not cover or for the amount by which ultimate losses exceed the amount of our third-party insurance coverage.  An unfavorable outcome in this matter could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results from discontinued operations if we ultimately are subject to liabilities associated with these claims that exceed coverage amounts not in dispute.. MicroPort's recall of certain sizes of its cobalt chrome modular neck devices due to alleged fractures could result in additional product liability claims against us. Although we have contested these claims, adverse outcomes could harm our business and adversely affect our results from discontinued operations and financial condition.. In August 2015, MicroPort announced the voluntary recall of certain sizes of its PROFEMUR® Long Cobalt Chrome Modular Neck devices manufactured from June 15, 2009 to July 22, 2015.  Because MicroPort did not acquire the OrthoRecon business until January 2014, many of the recalled devices were sold by legacy Wright prior to the acquisition by MicroPort.  Under the asset purchase agreement with MicroPort, legacy Wright retained responsibility, as between it and MicroPort, for claims for personal injury relating to sales of these products prior to the acquisition.  We were not consulted by MicroPort in connection with its recall, and we were aware of only twelve lawsuits alleging personal injury related to cobalt chrome neck fractures (four in the United States and eight outside the United States) as of December 31, 2017.  However, if the number of product liability claims alleging personal injury from fractures of cobalt chrome modular necks we sold prior to the MicroPort transaction were to become significant, this could have an adverse effect on our results from discontinued operations and financial condition.. A competitor's recall of its modular hip systems, and the liability claims and adverse publicity which ensued, could generate copycat claims against modular hip systems legacy Wright sold.. On July 6, 2012, Stryker Corporation announced the voluntary recall of its Rejuvenate Modular and ABG II modular neck hip stems citing risks including the potential for fretting and/or corrosion at or about the modular neck junction.  Although Stryker's recalled modular neck hip stems differ in design and material from the PROFEMUR® modular neck systems legacy Wright sold before divestiture of the OrthoRecon business, we have previously noted the risk that Stryker's recall and the resultant publicity could negatively impact sales of modular neck systems of other manufacturers, including the PROFEMUR® system, and that Stryker's action has increased industry focus on the safety of cobalt chrome modular neck products.  We have carefully monitored the clinical performance of the PROFEMUR® modular neck hip system, which combine a cobalt chrome modular neck and a titanium stem.  With over 33,000 units sold since this version was introduced in 2009, and an extremely low complaint rate, we remain confident in the safety and efficacy of this product.  Nevertheless, in light of Stryker's recall, the resulting product liability claims to which it has been subject, and the general negative publicity surrounding \"metal-on-metal\" articulating surfaces (which do not involve modular hip stems), there remains a risk that, even in the absence of clinical evidence, claims for personal injury relating to sales of these products before divestiture of the OrthoRecon business could increase, which could have an adverse. 21. Table of Contents. effect on our financial condition and results from discontinued operations since legacy Wright retained responsibility, as between it and MicroPort, for these claims.. Although we believe the use of corporate entities in our corporate structure will preclude creditors of any one particular entity within our corporate structure from reaching the assets of the other entities within our corporate structure not liable for the underlying claims of the one particular entity, there is a risk that, despite our corporate structure, creditors could be successful in piercing the corporate veil and reaching the assets of such other entities, which could have an adverse effect on us and our operating results, results from discontinued operations, and financial condition.. We maintain separate legal entities within our overall corporate structure.  We believe our ring-fenced structure with separate legal entities should preclude any corporate veil-piercing, alter ego, control person, or other similar claims by creditors of any one particular entity within our corporate structure from reaching the assets of the other entities within our corporate structure to satisfy claims of the one particular entity.  However, if a court were to disagree and allow a creditor to pierce the corporate veil and reach the assets of such other entities within our corporate structure, despite such entities not being liable for the underlying claims, it could have a material adverse effect on us and our operating results, results from discontinued operations, and financial condition.. If we lose any existing or future intellectual property lawsuits, a court could require us to pay significant damages or prevent us from selling our products.. The medical device industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage.. We are party to claims and lawsuits involving patents or other intellectual property.  Legal proceedings, regardless of the outcome, could drain our financial resources and divert the time and effort of our management.  If we lose one of these proceedings, a court, or a similar foreign governing body, could require us to pay significant damages to third parties, indemnify third parties from loss, require us to seek licenses from third parties, pay ongoing royalties, redesign our products, or prevent us from manufacturing, using or selling our products.  In addition to being costly, protracted litigation to defend or prosecute our intellectual property rights could result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation.. If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably.. We rely on patents, trade secrets, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, license agreements, and contractual provisions to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products.  These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not completely protect our rights. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will issue.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may deny or require a significant narrowing of the claims in its pending patent applications and the patents issuing from such applications.  Any patents issuing from the pending patent applications may not provide us with significant commercial protection.  We could incur substantial costs in proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions and the narrowing or invalidation of claims in issued patents.  In addition, the laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws or at all.  We also may be unable to protect our rights in trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology in these countries.. In addition, we hold licenses from third parties that are necessary to utilize certain technologies used in the design and manufacturing of some of our products.  The loss of such licenses would prevent us from manufacturing, marketing, and selling these products, which could harm our business.  If we, or the other parties from whom we would license intellectual property, fail to obtain and maintain adequate patent or other intellectual property protection for intellectual property used in our products, or if any protection is reduced or eliminated, others could use the intellectual property used in our products, resulting in harm to our competitive business position.. We seek to protect our trade secrets, know-how, and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part, with confidentiality agreements with our employees, independent distributors, and consultants.  We cannot be assured, however, that the agreements will not be breached, adequate remedies for any breach would be available, or our trade secrets, know-how, and other unpatented proprietary technology will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by our competitors.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness.  We may not be able to generate enough cash flow from our operations to service our indebtedness, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, including $395.0 million in aggregate principal with additional accrued interest under our 2.25% cash convertible senior notes due 2021 (2021 Notes) and $587.5 million in aggregate principal with additional accrued interest under WMG's 2.00% cash convertible senior notes due 2020, which Wright Medical Group N.V. has guaranteed (2020 Notes, together with the 2021 Notes, the Notes) as of December 31, 2017.  In addition, in December 2016, we entered into. 22. Table of Contents. a credit, security and guaranty agreement (ABL Credit Agreement) with Midcap Financial Trust and the additional lenders from time to time party thereto (ABL Lenders) which provides WMG and certain of our other wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries with a $150.0 million senior secured asset based line of credit, subject to the satisfaction of a borrowing base requirement, and which may be increased by up to $100.0 million upon our request, subject to the consent of the ABL Lenders (ABL Facility).  As of December 31, 2017, $53.6 million in aggregate principal plus additional accrued interest was outstanding under the ABL Facility.. Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness, including the Notes and amounts borrowed under the ABL Facility, and our ability to fund planned capital expenditures, contractual cash obligations, research and development efforts, working capital, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes depends on our ability to generate cash in the future.  This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.  If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness, including payments of principal upon conversion of outstanding Notes or on their respective maturity dates or in connection with a transaction involving us that constitutes a fundamental change under the respective indenture governing the Notes, or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity dates thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek to raise additional capital, or take other similar actions.  We may not be able to execute any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our indebtedness, and other factors, including market conditions. In addition, in the event of a default under the Notes or under the ABL Facility, the holders and/or the trustee under the indentures governing the Notes or the lenders under the ABL Facility may accelerate payment obligations under the Notes and/or the amounts borrowed under the ABL Facility, respectfully, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.  In addition, the Notes and ABL Facility contain cross default provisions.  Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would likely have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition, and operating results.. In addition, our significant indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences.  For example, it could:. • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry, and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. • restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, contractual obligations, research and development efforts, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy, or other purposes.. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results.  In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness, and if we do, the risks related to our business and our ability to service our indebtedness would increase.. In addition, under our Notes, we are required to offer to repurchase the Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, which could include, among other things, any acquisition of ours for consideration other than publicly traded securities.  The repurchase price must be paid in cash, and this obligation may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing an acquisition of ours that would otherwise be beneficial to our security holders.. With respect to the 2021 Notes which have been issued by Wright Medical Group N.V., we are dependent on the cash flow of, and dividends and distributions to us from, our subsidiaries in order to service our indebtedness under these Notes.  Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to any indebtedness of ours or to make any funds available therefor, except for those subsidiaries that have guaranteed our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness.  The ability of our subsidiaries to pay any dividends and distributions will be subject to, among other things, the terms of any debt instruments of our subsidiaries then in effect as well as among other things, the availability of profits or funds and requirements of applicable laws, including surplus, solvency and other limits imposed on the ability of companies to pay dividends.  There can be no assurance that our subsidiaries will generate cash flow sufficient to pay dividends or distributions to us that enable us to pay interest or principal on our existing indebtedness.. A failure to comply with the covenants and other provisions of the indentures governing the Notes or the ABL Credit Agreement could result in events of default under such indentures or ABL Credit Agreement, especially in light of the cross default provisions, which could require the immediate repayment of our outstanding indebtedness.  If we are at any time unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to service our indebtedness when payment is due, we may be required to attempt to renegotiate the terms of the indentures, the ABL Credit Agreement and other agreements relating to the indebtedness, seek to refinance all or a portion of the indebtedness, or obtain additional financing.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully renegotiate. 23. Table of Contents. such terms, that any such refinancing would be possible, or that any additional financing could be obtained on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us.. The terms of the ABL Credit Agreement could limit our ability to conduct our business, take advantage of business opportunities and respond to changing business, market, and economic conditions.. Our ABL Credit Agreement includes a number of significant financial and operating restrictions.  For example, the ABL Credit Agreement contains financial covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain minimum liquidity and achieve certain revenue thresholds and contains provisions that restrict our ability, subject to specified exceptions, to, among other things:. • make loans and investments, including acquisitions and transactions with affiliates;. • create liens or other encumbrances on our assets;. • dispose of assets;. • enter into contingent obligations;. • engage in mergers or consolidations; and. • pay dividends.. Due to the terms of the ABL Credit Agreement, we may be unable to comply with these covenants, which could result in a default under the ABL Facility. In addition, these provisions may limit our ability to conduct our business, take advantage of business opportunities, and respond to changing business, market, and economic conditions.  In addition, they may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that may be subject to fewer, if any, restrictions or may otherwise adversely affect our business.  Transactions that we may view as important opportunities, such as significant acquisitions, may be subject to the consent of the ABL Lenders, which consent may be withheld or granted subject to conditions specified at the time that may affect the attractiveness or viability of the transaction.. The ABL Facility involves additional risks that may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition.. Availability under the ABL Credit Agreement is based on the amount of certain eligible receivables, eligible equipment, eligible inventory and eligible surgical instrumentation less specified reserves as described in Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.  As a result, our access to credit under the ABL Facility is potentially subject to fluctuations depending on the value of the eligible assets in the borrowing base as of any valuation date. Our inability to borrow additional amounts under the ABL Facility may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, all payments on our accounts receivable are required under the ABL Credit Agreement to be directed to deposit accounts under the control of the ABL Facility lenders for application to amounts outstanding under the ABL Facility.  The lenders may exercise control over such amounts when they are entitled to exercise default remedies, which may adversely affect our ability to fund our operations.. Our outstanding indebtedness under the ABL Facility bears interest at variable rates, which subjects us to interest rate risk and could increase the cost of servicing our indebtedness. The impact of increases in interest rates could be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our indebtedness, thereby affecting our profitability.  In the event of a default under any of our debt instruments, the lenders under the ABL Facility may terminate their commitments to lend additional money and declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable.  Additionally, a default under the ABL Facility could result in a cross-default under the Notes.  While an event of default is continuing under the ABL Credit Agreement the lenders thereunder may elect to increase the rates at which interest accrues. Subject to certain exceptions, amounts outstanding under the ABL Facility are secured by a senior first priority security interest in substantially all existing and after-acquired assets of our company and each borrower.  Accordingly, under certain circumstances, the lenders under the ABL Facility could seek to enforce security interests in our assets securing our indebtedness under the ABL Facility, including restricting our access to collections on our accounts receivable.  Any acceleration of amounts due under our ABL Credit Agreement or the exercise by the lenders thereto of their rights under the security documents, would have a material adverse effect on us.  In addition, the ABL Facility is subject to market deterioration or other factors that could jeopardize the counterparty obligations of one or more of the ABL Lenders, which could have an adverse effect on our business if we are not able to replace such ABL Facility or find other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms.. Hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our Notes may affect the value of our ordinary shares.. In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into hedge transactions with various financial institutions with the objective of reducing the potential dilutive effect of issuing our ordinary shares upon conversion of the Notes and the potential cash outlay from the cash conversion of the Notes.  We also entered into separate warrant transactions with the same financial institutions.. In connection with the hedge and warrant transactions associated with the Notes, these financial institutions purchased our ordinary shares in secondary market transactions and entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our ordinary shares.  These entities or their affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Notes by purchasing and selling our ordinary shares, other of our securities, or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging.  Any of these transactions and activities could adversely affect the value of our ordinary. 24. Table of Contents. shares and, as a result, the number and value of the ordinary shares holders will receive upon conversion of the Notes. In addition, subject to movement in the price of our ordinary shares, if the hedge transactions settle in our favor, we could be exposed to credit risk related to the other party with respect to the payment we are owed from such other party.  If any of the participants in the hedge transactions is unwilling or unable to perform its obligations for any reason, we would not be able to receive the benefit of such transaction.  We cannot provide any assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the participants in the hedge transactions.. Rating agencies may provide unsolicited ratings on the Notes or the ABL Credit Agreement that could reduce the market value or liquidity of our ordinary shares.. We have not requested a rating of the Notes or the ABL Credit Agreement from any rating agency and we do not anticipate that the Notes or the ABL Credit Agreement will be rated.  However, if one or more rating agencies independently elects to rate the Notes or the ABL Credit Agreement and assigns the Notes or the ABL Credit Agreement a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, or reduces such rating in the future, the market price or liquidity of the Notes or the ABL Credit Agreement and our ordinary shares could be harmed.  Should a decline in the market price of the Notes, as compared to the price of our ordinary shares occur, this may trigger the right of the holders of the Notes to convert such notes into cash and our ordinary shares, as applicable.. We likely will need additional financing to satisfy our anticipated future liquidity requirements or to make opportunistic acquisitions, which financing may not be available on favorable terms at the time it is needed and which could reduce our operational and strategic flexibility.. Although it is difficult for us to predict our future liquidity requirements, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents balance of approximately $167.7 million, together with $96.4 million in availability under our ABL Facility as of December 31, 2017, will be sufficient for the next 12 months to fund our working capital requirements and operations, permit anticipated capital expenditures in 2018 of approximately $55 million, pay retained metal-on-metal product and other liabilities of the OrthoRecon business, including without limitation amounts under the MSA and Second Settlement Agreements, net of insurance recoveries, fund contingent consideration including without limitation the up to $42 million CVR milestone payment, and meet our other anticipated contractual cash obligations in 2018. We may face liquidity challenges during the next few years in light of anticipated significant contingent liabilities and financial obligations and commitments, including among others, acquisition-related contingent consideration payments, payments related to our outstanding indebtedness, and costs and payments related to pending litigation.. In the event that we would require additional working capital to fund future operations, we could seek to acquire that through borrowings under the additional $100.0 million that may be available under the ABL Facility or additional equity or debt financing arrangements which may or may not be available on favorable terms at such time.  If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders may experience dilution. Additional debt financing, if available, may involve additional covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt, in addition to those under our existing indentures and the ABL Credit Agreement.  Any additional debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our shareholders.  If we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements or we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products or scale back our operations.. If we lose one of our key suppliers, we may be unable to meet customer orders for our products in a timely manner or within our budget, which could adversely affect our sales and operating results.. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain of the components and materials used in our products.  Our reconstructive joint devices are produced from various surgical grades of titanium, cobalt chrome, stainless steel, various grades of high-density polyethylenes and ceramics.  We rely on one source to supply us with a certain grade of cobalt chrome alloy, one supplier for the silicone elastomer used in some of our extremities products, and one supplier for our pyrocarbon products, and one supplier to provide a key ingredient of AUGMENT® Bone Graft.  The manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, and our business could suffer if a sole source supply arrangement is unexpectedly terminated or interrupted, and we are unable to obtain an acceptable new source of supply in a timely fashion.. In April 2016, we entered into a commercial supply agreement with FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies U.S.A., Inc. pursuant to which Fujifilm agreed to manufacture and sell to us and we agreed to purchase recombinant human platelet-derived growth factor (rhPDGF-BB) for use in AUGMENT® Bone Graft.  The agreement reflects the culmination of a technology transfer from our former supplier to Fujifilm which began in December 2013 when we were notified that our former supplier was exiting the rhPDGF-BB business.  Pursuant to our supply agreement with Fujifilm, commercial production of rhPDGF-BB is expected to begin in 2019. Although we believe that our current supply of rhPDGF-BB from our former supplier should be sufficient to last until after rhPDGF-BB becomes available under the new agreement, no assurance can be provided that it will be sufficient. In addition, since Fujifilm has not previously manufactured rhPDGF-BB, its ability to do so and perform its obligations under the agreement are not yet fully proven.. 25. Table of Contents. Our biologic product line includes a single sourced supplier for our GRAFTJACKET® family of soft tissue repair and graft containment products.  In addition, certain biologic products depend upon a single supplier as our source for DBM and cancellous bone matrix (CBM), and any failure to obtain DBM and CBM from this source in a timely manner will deplete levels of on-hand raw materials inventory and could interfere with our ability to process and distribute allograft products.  We rely on a single not-for-profit tissue bank to meet all of our DBM and CBM order requirements, a key component in the allograft products we currently produce, market, and distribute.  In addition, we rely on a single supplier of soft tissue graft for BIOTAPE® XM.. We cannot be sure that our supply of DBM, CBM and soft tissue graft for BIOTAPE® XM will continue to be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our needs, or that future suppliers of DBM, CBM, and soft tissue graft for BIOTAPE® XM will be free from FDA regulatory action impacting their sale of DBM, CBM and soft tissue graft for BIOTAPE® XM. As there are a small number of suppliers, if we cannot continue to obtain DBM, CBM, and soft tissue graft for BIOTAPE® XM from our current sources in volumes sufficient to meet our needs, we may not be able to locate replacement sources of DBM, CBM, and soft tissue graft for BIOTAPE® XM on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  This could interrupt our business, which could adversely affect our sales.. Suppliers of raw materials and components may decide, or be required, for reasons beyond our control to cease supplying raw materials and components to us.  FDA regulations may require additional testing of any raw materials or components from new suppliers prior to our use of these materials or components, and in the case of a device with a PMA application, we may be required to obtain prior FDA permission, either of which could delay or prevent our access to or use of such raw materials or components.. We incur significant expenditures of resources to maintain relatively high levels of instruments and we historically have had a high level of inventory, which can adversely affect our operating results and reduce our cash flows.. The nature of our business requires us to maintain a certain level of instruments since in order to market effectively we often must maintain and bring our customers instrument kits.  In addition, we historically have maintained extra inventory in the form of back-up products and products of different size in order to ensure that our customers have the right products when they need them.  This practice has resulted in us maintaining a relatively high level of inventory, which can adversely affect our operating results and reduce our cash flows.  In addition, to the extent that a substantial portion of our inventory becomes obsolete, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows due to the resulting costs associated with inventory impairment charges and costs required to replace such inventory.. From time to time, we may experience inventory shortages of some of our higher demand products, which could adversely affect our net sales and operating results.. From time to time, internal or external supply constraints may create temporary shortages of certain of our higher demand products. While these shortages are likely to be temporary and are usually resolved, no assurance can be provided that such inventory shortages will not occur in the future, and if they occur, would not adversely affect our future net sales and operating results.. If we fail to compete successfully in the future against our existing or potential competitors, our sales and operating results may be negatively affected, and we may not achieve future growth.. The markets for our products are highly competitive and subject to rapid and profound technological change.  Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products for use by our customers.  Many of the companies developing or marketing competitive products enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including greater financial and human resources for product development and sales and marketing; greater name recognition; established relationships with surgeons, hospitals and third-party payors; broader product lines and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer greater discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; and established sales and marketing and distribution networks.  Some of our competitors have indicated an increased focus on the extremities and biologics markets, which are our primary strategic focus.  Our competitors may develop and patent processes or products earlier than us, obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for competing products more rapidly than us, develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or products obsolete or non-competitive or acquire technologies and technology licenses complementary to our products or advantageous to our business, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.  Not all of our sales and other personnel have non-compete agreements.  We also compete with other organizations in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, sales, and management personnel.  If our competitors are more successful than us in these matters, we may be unable to compete successfully against our existing or future competitors.  In addition, the orthopaedic industry has been subject to increasing consolidation recently and over the last few years.  Consolidation in our industry not involving our company could result in existing competitors increasing their market share through business combinations and result in stronger competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.  We may be unable to compete successfully in an increasingly consolidated industry and cannot predict with certainty how industry consolidation will affect our competitors or us.. If we are unable to continue to develop and market new products and technologies, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products, or our products could become obsolete, and our business would suffer.. 26. Table of Contents. We are continually engaged in product development and improvement programs, and new products represent a significant component of our sales growth rate.  We may be unable to compete effectively with our competitors unless we can keep up with existing or new products and technologies in the orthopaedic market.  If we do not continue to introduce new products and technologies, or if those products and technologies are not accepted, we may not be successful.  Moreover, research and development efforts may require a substantial investment of time and resources before we are adequately able to determine the commercial viability of a new product, technology, material, or innovation.  Demand for our products also could change in ways we may not anticipate due to evolving customer needs, changing demographics, slow industry growth rates, declines in the extremities and biologics market, the introduction of new products and technologies, evolving surgical philosophies, and evolving industry standards, among others.  Additionally, our competitors' new products and technologies may beat our products to market, may be more effective or less expensive than our products, or may render our products obsolete.  Our new products and technologies also could render our existing products obsolete and thus adversely affect sales of our existing products and lead to increased expense for excess and obsolete inventory.. Our business plan relies on certain assumptions about the markets for our products, which, if incorrect, may adversely affect our business and operating results.. We believe that the aging of the general population and increasingly active lifestyles will continue and that these trends will increase the need for our extremities and biologics products.  The projected demand for our products could materially differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding these trends and acceptance of our products by the medical community prove to be incorrect or do not materialize, or if non-surgical treatments gain more widespread acceptance as a viable alternative to orthopaedic implants.. We are subject to substantial government regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The production and marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing, and clinical trial activities are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad.  U.S. and foreign regulations govern the testing, marketing, registration and sale of medical devices, in addition to regulating manufacturing practices, reporting, labeling, relationships with healthcare professionals, and recordkeeping procedures.  The regulatory process requires significant time, effort, and expense to bring our products to market, and we cannot be assured that any of our products will be approved.  Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in governmental authorities:. • imposing fines and penalties on us;. • preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products;. • bringing civil or criminal charges against us and our officers and employees;. • delaying the introduction of our new products into the market;. • recalling or seizing our products; or. • withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products.. Even if regulatory approval or clearance of a product is granted, this could result in limitations on the uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted.  Further, for a marketed product, its manufacturer, such manufacturer's suppliers, and manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic review and inspection.  Subsequent discovery of problems with a product, manufacturer, or facility may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market or other enforcement actions.  Our products can only be marketed in accordance with their approved labeling.  If we were to promote the use of our products in an \"off-label\" manner, we and our directors, officers and employees, would be subject to civil and criminal sanctions.. We are subject to various U.S. federal and state and foreign laws concerning healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims laws, anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws.  Violations of these laws can result in criminal and/or civil punishment, including fines, imprisonment and, in the United States, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs.  Greater scrutiny of marketing practices in our industry has resulted in numerous government investigations by various government authorities and this industry-wide enforcement activity is expected to continue.  If a governmental authority were to determine that we do not comply with these laws and regulations, then we and our directors, officers and employees could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, including exclusion from participation in U.S. federal healthcare reimbursement programs.. In order to market our devices in the member countries of the European Union, we are required to comply with the European Medical Devices Directive and obtain CE mark certification.  CE mark certification is the European symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European Medical Device Directives.  Under the European Medical Devices Directive, all medical devices including active implants must qualify for CE marking. Our failure to comply with the European Medical Devices Directive could result in our loss of CE mark certification which would harm our business. In 2017, the European Commission adopted the Medical Devices Regulation, which will replace the European Medical Devices Directive and will be implemented starting in 2020.  The Medical Devices Regulation will impose additional and/or more stringent approval requirements on medical device manufacturers.  These new rules and procedures may result in increased regulatory oversight of any future. 27. Table of Contents. devices that we may develop and may increase the costs, time and requirements that need to be met in order to maintain or place devices in the member countries of the European Union.  In addition, we anticipate having to expend significant time, costs and resources to comply with the new European Medical Devices Directive.. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other anticorruption laws could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our international operations expose us to legal and regulatory risks.  These risks include the risk that our international distributors could engage in conduct violative of U.S. or local laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).  Our U.S. operations, including those of our U.S. operating subsidiaries, are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits covered entities and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other benefits.  In addition, the FCPA imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly-traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of \"off books\" slush funds from which such improper payments can be made.  We also are subject to similar anti-corruption legislation implemented in Europe under the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development's Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions.  We either operate or plan to operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential violations of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws, and we utilize a number of third-party sales representatives for whose actions we could be held liable under the FCPA.  We inform our personnel and third-party sales representatives of the requirements of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws, including, but not limited to their reporting requirements.  We also have developed and will continue to develop and implement systems for formalizing contracting processes, performing due diligence on agents, and improving our recordkeeping and auditing practices regarding these regulations.  However, there is no guarantee that our employees, third-party sales representatives, or other agents have not or will not engage in conduct undetected by our processes and for which we might be held responsible under the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws.  Failure to comply with the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.. If our employees, third-party sales representatives, or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, and other remedial measures, including further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, as well as potential personnel changes and disciplinary actions.  Recent investigations of companies in our industry by the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice have focused on potential FCPA violations in connection with the sale of medical devices in foreign countries.  We believe we have compliance systems, which enable us to prevent these behaviors. However, if despite our efforts we are not successful in mitigating these risks, we could become the target of enforcement actions by U.S. or local authorities.  Any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Certain foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to prohibitions as strict as those under the FCPA or, even if subjected to strict prohibitions, such prohibitions may be laxly enforced in practice.  If our competitors engage in corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft, or other fraudulent practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business, or from government officials, who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage.. Although our Corporate Integrity Agreement expired, if we were found to have breached it, we may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or exclusion from U.S. federal healthcare programs.. On September 29, 2010, Wright Medical Technology, Inc. entered into a 12-month Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey (USAO).  On September 15, 2011, WMT reached an agreement with the USAO and the OIG-HHS under which WMT voluntarily agreed to extend the term of its the Deferred Prosecution Agreement for 12 months.  On October 4, 2012, the USAO issued a press release announcing that the amended Deferred Prosecution Agreement expired on September 29, 2012, that the USAO had moved to dismiss the criminal complaint against WMT because WMT had fully complied with the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, and that the court had ordered dismissal of the complaint on October 4, 2012.  On September 29, 2010, WMT also entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of the Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services.  The CIA was filed as Exhibit 10.2 to legacy Wright's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 30, 2010.  The CIA expired on September 29, 2015 and on January 27, 2016, we received notification from the OIG-HHS that the term of the CIA has concluded. While the term of the CIA has concluded, our failure to continue to maintain compliance with U.S. healthcare laws, regulations and other requirements in the future could expose us to significant liability, including, but not limited to, exclusion from federal healthcare program participation, including Medicaid and Medicare, potential prosecution, civil and criminal fines or penalties, as well as additional litigation cost and expense, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. 28. Table of Contents. Allegations of wrongdoing by the United States Department of Justice and Office of the Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services and related publicity could lead to further governmental investigations or actions by other third parties.. As a result of the allegations of wrongdoing made by the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey and the publicity surrounding legacy Wright's settlement with the United States Department of Justice and OIG-HHS, and amendments to the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and Corporate Integrity Agreement, other governmental agencies, including state authorities, could conduct investigations or institute proceedings that are not precluded by the terms of settlements reflected in the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and the CIA.  In August 2012, legacy Wright received a subpoena from the United States Attorney's Office for the Western District of Tennessee requesting records and documentation relating to the PROFEMUR® series of hip replacement devices for the period from January 1, 2000 to August 2, 2012.  These interactions with the authorities could increase our exposure to lawsuits by potential whistleblowers, including under the U.S. Federal False Claims Act, based on new theories or allegations arising from the allegations made by the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey.  The costs of defending or resolving any such investigations or proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Modifications to our marketed devices may require FDA regulatory clearances or approvals or require us to cease marketing or recall the modified devices until such additional clearances or approvals are obtained.. The FDA requires device manufacturers to make a determination of whether or not a modification to a cleared and commercialized medical device requires a new approval or clearance.  However, the FDA can review a manufacturer's decision not to submit for additional approvals or clearances.  Any modification to an FDA approved or cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or efficacy or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new PMA or 510(k) clearance and could be considered misbranded if the modified device is commercialized and such additional approval or clearance was not obtained.  We cannot assure you that the FDA will agree with our decisions not to seek approvals or clearances for particular device modifications or that we will be successful in obtaining additional approvals or 510(k) clearances for modifications.. We obtained 510(k) premarket clearance for certain devices we market or marketed in the United States. We have subsequently modified some of those devices or device labeling since obtaining 510(k) clearance under the view that these modifications did not significantly affect the safety or efficacy of the device, and did not require new approvals or clearances.  If the FDA disagrees with our decisions and requires us to obtain additional premarket approvals or 510(k) clearances for any modifications to our products and we fail to obtain such approvals or clearances or fail to secure approvals or clearances in a timely manner, we may be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or to recall such modified device until we obtain FDA approval or clearance and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties.. The European Union and many of its world markets rely on the CE Mark as the path to market our products. Our loss of the CE Mark would adversely affect our business and operating results.. In order to market our devices in the member countries of the European Union (EU), we are required to comply with the European Medical Devices Directive, which requires our devices to meet specific quality program criteria and technical documentation standards, before obtaining the CE Mark certification that is required to market our products in the EU.  Additionally, the European Medical Device Directive requires that many of our products that bear the CE-Mark be supported by post-market clinical data.  We are in the process of implementing systems and procedures to control this activity in order to comply with these requirements, including establishing contractual relationships with the healthcare provider clinical study sites in accordance with our internal compliance requirements.  We intend to obtain the needed clinical data to support our marketed products, but there can be no assurance that European regulators will accept the results.  Our failure to comply with the European Medical Devices Directive could result in our failure to obtain CE Mark certification for new devices or our loss of existing device CE mark certification, either of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our business.. In March 2017, the European Commission adopted the Medical Devices Regulation, which will replace the European Medical Devices Directive and will be implemented starting in 2020.  The Medical Devices Regulation will impose additional and/or more stringent approval requirements on medical device manufacturers.  These new rules and procedures may result in increased regulatory oversight of any future devices that we may develop and may increase the costs, time and requirements that need to be met in order to maintain or place devices in the member countries of the European Union.  Additionally, we anticipate having to expend significant time, costs and resources to comply with the Medical Devices Regulation.. Our biologics business is subject to emerging governmental regulations that can significantly impact our business.. The FDA has statutory authority to regulate allograft-based products, processing, and materials.  The FDA, European Union and Health Canada have been working to establish more comprehensive regulatory frameworks for allograft-based, tissue-containing products, which are principally derived from cadaveric tissue.  The framework developed by the FDA establishes risk-based criteria for determining whether a particular human tissue-based product will be classified as human tissue, a medical device, or biologic drug requiring 510(k) clearance or PMA approval.  All tissue-based products are subject to extensive FDA regulation, including. 29. Table of Contents. establishment of registration requirements, product listing requirements, good tissue practice requirements for manufacturing, and screening requirements that ensure that diseases are not transmitted to tissue recipients.  The FDA has also proposed extensive additional requirements addressing sub-contracted tissue services, traceability to the recipient/patient, and donor records review.  If a tissue-based product is considered human tissue, FDA requirements focus on preventing the introduction, transmission, and spread of communicable diseases to recipients.  Clinical data or review of safety and efficacy is not required before the tissue can be marketed.  However, if tissue is considered a medical device or biologic drug, then FDA clearance or approval is required.. Additionally, our biologics business involves the procurement and transplantation of allograft tissue, which is subject to federal regulation under the NOTA.  NOTA prohibits the sale of human organs, including bone and other human tissue, for valuable consideration within the meaning of NOTA. NOTA permits the payment of reasonable expenses associated with the transportation, processing, preservation, quality control, and storage of human tissue.  We currently charge our customers for these expenses.  In the future, if NOTA is amended or reinterpreted, we may not be able to charge these expenses to our customers, and, as a result, our business could be adversely affected.. Our principal allograft-based biologics offerings include ALLOMATRIX®, GRAFTJACKET® and IGNITE® products.. Our business could suffer if the medical community does not continue to accept allograft technology.. New allograft products, technologies, and enhancements may never achieve broad market acceptance due to numerous factors, including:. • lack of clinical acceptance of allograft products and related technologies;. • the introduction of competitive tissue repair treatment options that render allograft products and technologies too expensive and obsolete;. • lack of available third-party reimbursement;. • the inability to train surgeons in the use of allograft products and technologies;. • the risk of disease transmission; and. • ethical concerns about the commercial aspects of harvesting cadaveric tissue.. Market acceptance also will depend on the ability to demonstrate that existing and new allograft products and technologies are attractive alternatives to existing tissue repair treatment options.  To demonstrate this, we rely upon surgeon evaluations of the clinical safety, efficacy, ease of use, reliability, and cost effectiveness of our tissue repair options and technologies.  Recommendations and endorsements by influential surgeons are important to the commercial success of allograft products and technologies.  In addition, several countries, notably Japan, prohibit the use of allografts.  If allograft products and technologies are not broadly accepted in the marketplace, we may not achieve a competitive position in the market.. We are dependent on various information technology systems, and failures of, interruptions to, or unauthorized tampering of those systems could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely extensively on information technology systems to conduct business.  These systems include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, and providing data security and other processes necessary to manage our business. Since the Wright/Tornier merger and through the end of 2016, we have consolidated into one enterprise resource planning (ERP) system in three of our top five international markets, and we plan to continue our ERP system roll-outs in the future.  We may experience difficulties in our business operations, or difficulties in operating our business under the ERP, either of which could disrupt our operations, including our ability to timely ship and track product orders, project inventory requirements, manage our supply chain, and otherwise adequately service our customers, and lead to increased costs and other difficulties.  In the event we experience significant disruptions as a result of the ERP implementation or otherwise, we may not be able to fix our systems in an efficient and timely manner.  Accordingly, such events may disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our entire operations and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows.. In addition, if our systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively compensate timely, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations. Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted cybersecurity attacks pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and those of our customers, suppliers and third-party service providers, and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of any underlying information and data. There can be no assurance that our protective measures will prevent or detect security breaches that could have a significant impact on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. The failure of these systems to operate or integrate effectively with other internal, customer, supplier or third-party service provider systems and to protect the underlying information technology system and data integrity, including from cyber-attacks, intrusions or other breaches or unauthorized access of these systems, or any failure by us to remediate any such attacks or breaches, may also result in damage to our reputation or competitiveness, delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and could require significant capital. 30. Table of Contents. investments to remediate any such failure, problem or breach, all of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our inability to maintain effective internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  The integration of combined or acquired businesses is likely to result in our systems and controls becoming increasingly complex and more difficult to manage.  We devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement, and maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in light of anticipated changes in accounting standards and in the context of acquisitions of other businesses.. In the fourth quarter of 2016, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to information technology general controls. Although we remediated this material weakness during the third quarter of 2017 and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and have taken additional measures to improve our control environment, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we continue to maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subjected to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation, the defense of any of which could cause the diversion of management's attention and resources, we could incur significant legal and other expenses, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions if any such actions were not resolved in our favor.  Continued or future failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting could also result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition or results of operations.  There can be no assurance that we will not identify any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that will impair our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately or on a timely basis.  Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our ordinary shares and our access to capital.. We operate in markets outside the United States that are subject to political, economic, and social instability and expose us to additional risks.. Operations in countries outside of the United States accounted for approximately 26% of our net sales for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.  Our operations outside of the United States are accompanied by certain financial and other risks.  We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales outside the United States, especially in emerging markets, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales operations.  Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents, and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions.  These risks include:. • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations on orthopaedic implants and biologic products;. • withdrawal from or revision to international trade agreements and the imposition or increases in import and export licensing and other compliance requirements, customs duties and tariffs, import and export quotas and other trade restrictions, license obligations, and other non-tariff barriers to trade;. • unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;. • the imposition of U.S. or international sanctions against a country, company, person, or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with that country, company, person, or entity;. • economic instability, including currency risk between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, in our target markets;. • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;. • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives, and distributors;. • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities, which could result in significant fines, penalties, and additional taxes being imposed upon us;. • a shortage of high-quality international salespeople and distributors;. • loss of any key personnel who possess proprietary knowledge or are otherwise important to our success in international markets;. • changes in third-party reimbursement policy that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate our reducing selling prices for our products;. • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements;. • differing local product preferences and product requirements;. • changes in tariffs and other trade restrictions, particularly related to the exportation of our biologic products;. • work stoppages or strikes in the healthcare industry, such as those that have affected our operations in France, Canada, South Korea, and Finland in the past;. • difficulties in enforcing and defending intellectual property rights;. • foreign currency exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the Netherlands;. • complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; and. 31. Table of Contents. • exposure to different legal and political standards due to our conducting business in approximately  50 countries.. In addition, on June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\"  As a result of the referendum, negotiations will determine the future terms of the United Kingdom's relationship with the European Union, including the terms of trade between the United Kingdom and the European Union.  Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on the movement of goods and people between the United Kingdom and European Union countries and increased regulatory complexities, which could affect our ability to sell our products in certain European Union countries.  Brexit could adversely affect European and worldwide economic and market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the British pound and Euro. In addition, other European countries may seek to conduct referenda with respect to continuing membership with the European Union.  We do not know to what extent these changes will impact our business.  Any of these effects of Brexit, and others that we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, operations and financial results.. Since we conduct operations through U.S. operating subsidiaries, not only are we subject to the laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions, but we also are subject to U.S. laws governing our activities in foreign countries, such as the FCPA, as well as various import-export laws, regulations, and embargoes.  If our business activities were determined to violate these laws, regulations, or rules, we could suffer serious consequences.. Healthcare regulation and reimbursement for medical devices vary significantly from country to country. This changing environment could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in some jurisdictions.. The costs of complying with the requirements of the new EU-wide General Data Protection Regulation and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In May 2018, the new EU-wide General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will become effective, replacing the current data protection laws of each EU member state. The GDPR will implement more stringent operational requirements for personal data, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information, increased requirements pertaining to health data and pseudonymised (i.e., key-coded) data, mandatory data breach notification requirements and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with privacy or security laws, policies, legal obligations or industry standards or any security incident that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information may result in governmental enforcement actions and investigations including by European Data Protection Authorities, fines and penalties, litigation and/or adverse publicity, and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. Such failures could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. If the third parties we work with violate applicable laws, contractual obligations or suffer a security breach, such violations may also put us in breach of our obligations under privacy laws and regulations and/or could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we anticipate having to expend significant time, costs and resources to comply with the GDPR.. Worldwide economic instability could adversely affect our net sales, financial condition, or results of operations.. The health of the global economy, and the credit markets and the financial services industry in particular, affects our business and operating results.  While the health of the credit markets and the financial services industry appears to have stabilized, there is no assurance that it will remain stable and there can be no assurance that there will not be deterioration in the global economy.  If the credit markets are not favorable, we may be unable to raise additional financing when needed or on favorable terms.  Our customers may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability to purchase our products or to pay for our products on a timely basis, if at all.  In addition, any economic crisis could also adversely impact our suppliers' ability to provide us with materials and components, either of which may negatively impact our business.  As with our customers and vendors, these economic conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.  Further, there are concerns for the overall stability and suitability of the Euro as a single currency, given the economic and political challenges facing individual Eurozone countries and Brexit.  Continuing deterioration in the creditworthiness of the Eurozone countries, the withdrawal of one or more member countries from the European Union, or the failure of the Euro as a common European currency could adversely affect our sales, financial condition, or operating results.. The collectability of our accounts receivable may be affected by general economic conditions.. Our liquidity is dependent on, among other things, the collection of our accounts receivable.  Collections of our receivables may be affected by general economic conditions.  Although current economic conditions have not had a material adverse effect on our ability to collect such receivables, we can make no assurances regarding future economic conditions or their effect on our ability to collect our receivables, particularly from our international stocking distributors.  In addition, some of our trade receivables are with national health care systems in many countries (including, but not limited to, Greece, Ireland, Portugal, and Spain).  Repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries.  In light of these global economic. 32. Table of Contents. fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers located outside of the United States.  Failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our operating results.. A significant portion of our product sales are made through independent distributors and sales agents who we do not control.. A significant portion of our product sales are made through independent sales representatives and distributors.  Because the independent distributor often controls the customer relationships within its territory (and, in certain countries outside the United States, the regulatory relationship), there is a risk that if our relationship with the distributor ends, our relationship with the customer will be lost (and, in certain countries outside the United States, that we could experience delays in amending or transferring our product registrations).  Also, because we do not control a distributor's field sales agents, there is a risk we will be unable to ensure that our sales processes, compliance, and other priorities will be consistently communicated and executed by the distributor.  If we fail to maintain relationships with our key distributors, or fail to ensure that our distributors adhere to our sales processes, compliance, and other priorities, this could have an adverse effect on our operations.  In the past, we have experienced turnover within our independent distributor organization.  This adversely affected our short-term financial results as we transitioned to direct sales employees or new independent representatives.  In addition, prior to the merger, legacy Tornier transitioned to direct selling models in certain geographies and transitioned its U.S. sales channel towards focusing separately on upper and lower extremities products.  While we believe these transitions were managed effectively and position us to leverage our sales force and broad product portfolio, there is a risk that these or future transitions could have a greater adverse effect on our operations than we have previously experienced or anticipate.  Further, the legacy independent distributors and sales agents of Wright and Tornier may decide not to renew or may decide to seek to terminate, change and/or renegotiate their relationships with us. A loss of a significant number of our distributors or agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In addition, our success is partially dependent upon our ability to retain and motivate our distributors, independent sales agencies, and their representatives to sell our products in certain territories.  They may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans.  Some of our distributors and independent sales agencies do not sell our products exclusively and may offer similar products from other orthopaedic companies.  Our distributors and independent sales agencies may terminate their contracts with us, may devote insufficient sales efforts to our products, or may focus their sales efforts on other products that produce greater commissions for them, which could have an adverse effect on our operations and operating results.. The results of our clinical trials may not support our product claims or may result in the discovery of adverse side effects.. Our ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing, and clinical trial activities are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad.  We are currently conducting post-market clinical studies of some of our products to gather additional information about these products' safety, efficacy, or optimal use.  In the future we may conduct additional clinical trials to support approval of new products.  Clinical studies must be conducted in compliance with FDA regulations or the FDA may take enforcement action.  The data collected from these clinical trials may ultimately be used to support market approval or clearance for these products or gather additional information about approved or cleared products. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product claims or that the FDA or foreign authorities will agree with our conclusions regarding them.  Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not always ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the later trials will replicate the results of prior trials and studies.  The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for the proposed indicated uses, which could cause us to abandon a product and may delay development of others.  Any delay or termination of our clinical trials will delay the filing of our product submissions and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenue.  It is also possible that patients enrolled in clinical trials will experience adverse side effects that are not currently part of the product's profile.. If the third parties on which we rely to conduct our clinical trials and to assist us with clinical development do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain, or in some cases, maintain regulatory clearance or approval for or commercialize our products.. We often must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators, and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials.  If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if these third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements, or for other reasons, our pre-clinical and clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended, or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain or, in some cases maintain, regulatory clearance or approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products on a timely basis, if at all, and our business, operating results, and prospects may be adversely affected.  Furthermore, our third-party clinical trial investigators may be delayed in conducting our clinical trials for reasons outside of their control.. Fluctuations in insurance cost and availability could adversely affect our profitability or our risk management profile.. We hold a number of insurance policies, including product liability insurance, directors' and officers' liability insurance, property insurance, and workers' compensation insurance.  If the costs of maintaining adequate insurance coverage should increase. 33. Table of Contents. significantly in the future, our operating results could be materially adversely impacted.  Likewise, if any of our current insurance coverage should become unavailable to us or become economically impractical, we would be required to operate our business without indemnity from commercial insurance providers.. Our inability to maintain contractual relationships with healthcare professionals could have a negative impact on our research and development and medical education programs.. We maintain contractual relationships with respected surgeons and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development and in the training of surgeons on the safe and effective use of our products.  We continue to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand our existing product lines as well as providing high quality training on those products.  If we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop and market new and improved products and train on the use of those products could decrease, and our future operating results could be unfavorably affected.  In addition, it is possible that U.S. federal and state and international laws requiring us to disclose payments or other transfers of value, such as free gifts or meals, to surgeons and other healthcare providers could have a chilling effect on these relationships with individuals or entities that may, among other things, want to avoid public scrutiny of their financial relationships with us.. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors for our products are not obtained, surgeons and patients may be reluctant to use our products and our sales may decline.. In the United States, healthcare providers who purchase our products generally rely on third-party payors, principally U.S. federally-funded Medicare, state-funded Medicaid, and private health insurance plans, to pay for all or a portion of the cost of joint reconstructive procedures and products utilized in those procedures.  We may be unable to sell our products on a profitable basis if third-party payors deny coverage or reduce their current levels of reimbursement.  Our sales depend largely on governmental healthcare programs and private health insurers reimbursing patients' medical expenses.  Surgeons, hospitals, and other healthcare providers may not purchase our products if they do not receive appropriate reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products.  In light of healthcare reform measures, payors continue to review their coverage policies for existing and new therapies and may deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products.. In addition, some healthcare providers in the United States have adopted or are considering bundled payment methodologies and/or managed care systems in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person.  Healthcare providers may attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures, including joint reconstructive surgeries, or by requiring the use of the least expensive implant available.  Changes in reimbursement policies or healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our products may cause our sales to decline.. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of our products may decline.  Outside of the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country.  Many foreign markets have government-managed healthcare systems that govern reimbursement for medical devices and procedures.  Canada, and some European and Asian countries, in particular France, Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea, have tightened reimbursement rates.  Additionally, Brazil, China, Russia, and the United Kingdom have recently begun landmark reforms that will significantly alter their healthcare systems.  Finally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments in a given period and therefore result in extended payment periods.. Our business could be significantly and adversely impacted by healthcare reform legislation.. Comprehensive healthcare reform legislation has significantly and adversely impacted our business. For example, the Affordable Care Act imposed a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of medical devices.  Although the medical device excise tax is currently suspended until December 31, 2019, it is possible that the suspension may be lifted or expire. The Affordable Care Act also includes numerous provisions to limit Medicare spending through reductions in various fee schedule payments and by instituting more sweeping payment reforms, such as bundled payments for episodes of care and the establishment of \"accountable care organizations\" under which hospitals and physicians will be able to share savings that result from cost control efforts.  Many of these provisions will be implemented through the regulatory process, and policy details have not yet been finalized.  In addition, efforts to repeal and replace and/or modify all or parts of the Affordable Care Act continue.  Any such repeal, replacement or material modification of the Affordable Care Act could cause significant uncertainty in the U.S. healthcare market, could increase our costs, decrease our sales or inhibit our ability to sell our products.  Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level.  We cannot predict with certainty the impact that these U.S. federal and state health reforms will have on us.  However, an expansion in government's role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for products, reduce medical procedure volumes, and adversely affect our business and operating results, possibly materially.. There is an increasing trend for more criminal prosecutions and compliance enforcement activities for noncompliance with the HIPAA as well as for data breaches involving protected health information (PHI). In the ordinary course of our business, we may receive PHI.  If we are unable to comply with HIPAA or experiences a data breach involving PHI, we could be subject to criminal and civil sanctions.. 34. Table of Contents. If we cannot retain our key personnel, we may be unable to manage and operate our business successfully and meet our strategic objectives.. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain and motivate key managerial, scientific, sales, and technical personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel.  We compete for such personnel with other companies, academic institutions, governmental entities, and other organizations.  There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our current personnel or in hiring or retaining qualified personnel in the future.  Key personnel may depart because of difficulties with change or a desire not to remain with our company, especially in light of the Wright/Tornier merger.  Any unanticipated loss or interruption of services of our management team and our key personnel could significantly reduce our ability to meet our strategic objectives because it may not be possible for us to find appropriate replacement personnel should the need arise.  Loss of key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate successfully.  Further, any inability on our part to enforce non-compete or non-solicitation arrangements related to key personnel who have left the business could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If a natural or man-made disaster adversely affects our manufacturing facilities or distribution channels, we could be unable to manufacture or distribute our products for a substantial amount of time, and our sales could be disrupted.. We principally rely on four manufacturing facilities, two of which are in France, one of which is in Ireland and one of which is in Arlington, Tennessee.  The facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace.  For example, the machinery associated with our manufacturing of pyrocarbon in one of our French facilities is highly specialized and would take substantial lead-time and resources to replace.  We also maintain a facility in Bloomington, Minnesota, a facility in Arlington, Tennessee, and a warehouse in Montbonnot, France, which contain large amounts of our inventory.  Our facilities, warehouses, or distribution channels may be affected by natural or man-made disasters.  For example, in the event of a natural or man-made disaster at one of our warehouses, we may lose substantial amounts of inventory that would be difficult to replace.  Our manufacturing facility in Arlington, Tennessee is located near the New Madrid fault line.  In the event our facilities, warehouses, or distribution channels are affected by a disaster, we would be forced to rely on, among others, third-party manufacturers and alternative warehouse space and distribution channels, which may or may not be available, and our sales could decline.  Although we believe we have adequate disaster recovery plans in place and possess adequate insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such plans and insurance may not cover such disasters or be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.. To the extent transition activities related to the sale of our Large Joints business divert management attention or manufacturing resources from our ongoing operations, or add additional costs to these operations, this could have an adverse effect on our business.. On October 21, 2016, we sold our Large Joints business to Corin.  In connection with the transaction, we entered into a transitional services agreement pursuant to which we agreed to provide Corin certain support services and a supply agreement pursuant to which we agreed to manufacture certain of the large joints products for Corin, in each case for a transitional period of time.  Our post-closing obligations under the transitional services agreement and supply agreement require us to dedicate substantial resources, personnel and manufacturing capacity that may add costs to our ongoing business, cause us to incur unanticipated costs and liabilities or result in manufacturing delays with respect to the production and delivery of our own products.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported net sales and earnings.. Because a majority of our international sales are denominated in local currencies and not in U.S. dollars, our reported net sales and earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations favorably impacted our net sales by $0.9 million during 2017.  Operating costs related to these sales are largely denominated in the same respective currencies, thereby partially limiting our transaction risk exposure.  However, cost of sales related to these sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars; therefore, as the U.S. dollar strengthens, the gross margin associated with our sales denominated in foreign currencies experience declines.. We have employed a derivative program using foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the risk of currency fluctuations on our intercompany receivable and payable balances that are denominated in foreign currencies.  These forward contracts are expected to offset the transactional gains and losses on the related intercompany balances.  These forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standard Codification (ASC) Section 815, Derivatives and Hedging Activities.  Accordingly, the changes in the fair value and the settlement of the contracts are recognized in the period incurred.  Although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and more recently through hedging activities, these actions may not prove to be fully effective, and hedging activities involve additional risks.  We plan to discontinue our foreign currency forward contracts derivative program in 2018.. We may be unable to maintain competitive global cash management and a competitive effective corporate tax rate.. 35. Table of Contents. We cannot give any assurance as to our future effective tax rate because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate and uncertainty regarding the level of net income that we will earn in those jurisdictions in the future.  Our actual effective tax rate may vary from this expectation and that variance may be material.  Additionally, the tax laws of the Netherlands and other jurisdictions in which we operate could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate.. Our provision for income taxes will be based on certain estimates and assumptions made by management in consultation with our tax and other advisors.  Our group income tax rate will be affected by, among other factors, the amount of net income earned in our various operating jurisdictions, the availability of benefits under tax treaties, the rates of taxes payable in respect of that income, and withholding taxes on dividends paid from one jurisdiction to the next.  We will enter into many transactions and arrangements in the ordinary course of business in respect of which the tax treatment is not entirely certain.  We will, therefore, make estimates and judgments based on our knowledge and understanding of applicable tax laws and tax treaties, and the application of those tax laws and tax treaties to our business, in determining our consolidated tax provision.  For example, certain countries could seek to tax a greater share of income than will be provided for by us.  The final outcome of any audits by taxation authorities may differ from the estimates and assumptions we may use in determining our consolidated tax provisions and accruals.  This could result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated income tax provision, financial condition, and the net income for the period in which such determinations are made.. In particular, dividends, distributions, and other intra-group payments from our U.S. affiliates to certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30% unless the entity receiving such payments can demonstrate that it qualifies for reduction or elimination of the U.S. withholding tax under the income tax treaty (if any) between the United States and the jurisdiction in which the entity is organized or is a tax resident. In certain cases, treaty qualification may depend on whether at least 50% of our ultimate beneficial owners are qualified residents of the United States or the treaty jurisdiction within the meaning of the applicable treaty.  There can be no assurance that we will satisfy this beneficial ownership requirement at the time when such dividends, distributions, or other payments are made.  Moreover, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may challenge our determination that the beneficial ownership requirement is satisfied.  If we do not satisfy the beneficial ownership requirement, such dividends, distributions, or other payments may be subject to 30% U.S. withholding tax.. We may face potential limitations on the utilization of our U.S. tax attributes.. Following the acquisition of a U.S. corporation by a non-U.S. corporation, Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Code) can limit the ability of the acquired U.S. corporation and its U.S. affiliates to utilize U.S. tax attributes such as net operating losses and certain tax credits to offset U.S. taxable income resulting from certain transactions. Based on the limited guidance available, we currently expect that this limitation likely will not apply to us and as a result, our U.S. affiliates likely will not be limited by Section 7874 of the Code in their ability to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset their U.S. taxable income, if any, resulting from certain specified taxable transactions.  However, no assurances can be given in this regard.  If, however, Section 7874 of the Code were to apply to the Wright/Tornier merger and if our U.S. affiliates engage in transactions that would generate U.S. taxable income subject to this limitation in the future, it could take us longer to use our net operating losses and tax credits and, thus, we could pay U.S. federal income tax sooner than we otherwise would have.  Additionally, if the limitation were to apply and if we do not generate taxable income consistent with our expectations, it is possible that the limitation under Section 7874 on the utilization of U.S. tax attributes could prevent our U.S. affiliates from fully utilizing their U.S. tax attributes prior to their expiration.. Future changes to U.S. tax laws could materially affect us, including our status as a non-U.S. corporation.. Under current U.S. federal income tax law, a corporation generally will be considered to be resident for U.S. federal income tax purposes in its place of organization or incorporation.  Accordingly, under the generally applicable U.S. federal income tax rules, we, as a Netherlands incorporated entity, would be classified as a non-U.S. corporation (and, therefore, not a U.S. tax resident).  Section 7874 of Code, however, contains specific rules (more fully discussed below) that can cause a non-U.S. corporation to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  These rules are complex and there is little or no guidance as to their application.. We currently expect we should continue to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, however, it is possible that the IRS could disagree with that position and assert that Section 7874 applies to treat us as a U.S. corporation.  In addition, new statutory or regulatory provisions under Section 7874 or otherwise could be enacted or promulgated that adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such provisions could have retroactive application.  If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for federal tax purposes, we would be subject to U.S. corporate income tax on our worldwide income, and the income of our foreign subsidiaries would be subject to U.S. tax when repatriated or when deemed recognized under the U.S. tax rules for controlled foreign subsidiaries. In such a case, we would be subject to substantially greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated.  Moreover, in such a case, a non-U.S. shareholder of our company would be subject to U.S. withholding tax on the gross amount of any dividends paid by us to such shareholder.. 36. Table of Contents. Any such U.S. corporate income or withholding tax could be imposed in addition to, rather than in lieu of, any Dutch corporate income tax or withholding tax that may apply.. Our tax position may be adversely affected by changes in tax law relating to multinational corporations, or by increased scrutiny by tax authorities.. Recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, limit the ability of foreign-owned corporations to deduct interest expense, and make other changes in the taxation of multinational corporations.. On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted the statute commonly called the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (the 2017 Tax Act) which enacts a broad range of changes to the Code. The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of U.S. interest and U.S. net operating losses, allows for the expensing of certain U.S. capital expenditures, and puts into effect a number of changes impacting applicable operations outside of the United States including, but not limited to, the imposition of a onetime tax on accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income that has not previously been subject to tax, and modifications to the treatment of certain intercompany transactions. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities were revalued to the extent applicable at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the impact was recognized as a tax benefit in 2017, the year of enactment.  We are continuing to evaluate the overall impact of this tax legislation on our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.  There can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the U.S. and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations.  Similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact our customers and counterparties or the economy generally may also impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, the U.S. Congress, government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business, and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development have focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations.  One example is in the area of \"base erosion and profit shifting,\" where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates.  As a result, the tax laws in the United States, the Netherlands and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could impact the expected tax treatment for us and adversely affect our financial results.. Moreover, U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities may carefully scrutinize companies involved or recently involved in cross-border business combinations, such as us, which may lead such authorities to assert that we owe additional taxes.. Our exposure to several tax jurisdictions may have an adverse effect on us and this may increase the aggregate tax burden on us and our shareholders.. We are subject to a large number of different tax laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which we operate.  These laws and regulations are often complex and are subject to varying interpretations.  The combined effect of the application of tax laws, including the application or disapplication of tax treaties of one or more of these jurisdictions and their interpretation by the relevant tax authorities could, under certain circumstances, produce contradictory results.  We often rely on generally available interpretations of tax laws and regulations to determine the existence, scope, and level of our liability to tax in the jurisdictions in which we operate.  In addition, we take positions in the course of our business with respect to various tax matters, including the compliance with the arm's length principles in respect of transactions with related parties, the tax deductibility of interest and other costs, and the amount of depreciation or write-down of our assets that we can recognize for tax purposes.  There is no assurance that the tax authorities in the relevant jurisdictions will agree with such interpretation of these laws and regulations or with the positions taken by us.  If such tax positions are challenged by relevant tax authorities, the imposition of additional taxes could increase our effective tax rate and cost of operations.. Furthermore, because we are incorporated under Dutch law, we are treated for Dutch corporate income tax purposes as a resident of the Netherlands.  Based on our management structure and the current tax laws of the United States and the Netherlands, as well as applicable income tax treaties and current interpretations thereof, we expect to remain a tax resident solely of the Netherlands.  If we were to be treated as a tax resident of a jurisdiction other than or in addition to the Netherlands, we could be subject to corporate income tax in that other jurisdiction, and could be required to withhold tax on any dividends paid by us to our shareholders under the applicable laws of that jurisdiction.. Risks Related to the Wright/Tornier Merger. We may be unable to continue to successfully integrate our operations or realize the anticipated cost savings, net sales and other potential benefits of the Wright/Tornier merger in a timely manner or at all.  As a result, the value of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected.. The ultimate future success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings, net sales, and other potential benefits of the merger.  Achieving the anticipated potential benefits of the merger will depend in part upon whether we are able to complete the integration of our operations in an efficient and effective manner and whether we are able to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate our capabilities and coordinate our sales organizations to sell our combined. 37. Table of Contents. products.  While we have successfully completed a substantial number of integration activities since the merger, the remainder of our integration activities may not be completed smoothly or successfully.  The necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems, and facilities and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures, and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration.  We operate numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, payroll, employee benefits, and regulatory compliance.  We still have numerous systems which remain to be integrated, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, payroll, employee benefits, and regulatory compliance.  We may still have inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures or policies that could affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger.  We may also have difficulty in completing the integration of our commercial organizations, including in particular distribution and sales representative arrangements.  The integration of certain operations requires the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management's attention from our day-to-day business.  Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also disrupt our business.  Any inability of our management to integrate successfully our operations or to do so within a longer time frame than expected could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.  The integration also may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and loss of customer relationships.  Even if the operations of our businesses are integrated successfully, we may not be able to realize the full benefits of the merger, including the anticipated operating and cost synergies, sales and growth opportunities or long-term strategic benefits of the merger, within the expected timeframe or at all.  In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant integration and restructuring expenses to realize synergies.  However, many of the expenses that remain to be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately.  These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings.  Although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses may offset incremental transaction, merger-related, and restructuring costs over time, we cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all.  An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results, which may affect the value of our ordinary shares.. Our future success also will depend in part upon our ability to retain key employees.  Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense.  In addition, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty or difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with our company.  Accordingly, no assurances can be given that we will retain key employees.. Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations as a result of the merger.. As a result of the merger, the size of our business has increased significantly.  Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which may pose substantial challenges for our management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity.  There can be no assurances that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, and other benefits currently anticipated from the merger.. Our Corporate Compliance Program requires the cooperation of many individuals, involves substantial investment and diverts a significant amount of time and resources from our other business activities.  Our failure to maintain an effective Corporate Compliance Program could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial results.. We are committed to a robust Corporate Compliance Program.  Accordingly, we have devoted and continue to devote a significant amount of time and resources from our financial, human resources, and compliance personnel, as well as all of our employees in furtherance of this strategic objective. Since the completion of the Wright/Tornier merger, we have spent considerable resources integrating the Corporate Compliance Programs of legacy Wright and legacy Tornier and believe we have substantially completed this integration. No assurance can be provided, however, that we have successfully completed this process. Our failure to maintain an effective Corporate Compliance Program could result in significant legal and regulatory problems and could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial results.. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet as a result of the Wright/Tornier merger and our other acquisitions, which if these acquired businesses do not perform as anticipated, may be subject to future impairment, which would harm our operating results.. In connection with the accounting for the merger, we recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets within each of our reporting units. As of December 31, 2017, we had $933.7 million in goodwill and $231.0 million in intangible assets. Under US GAAP, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets have been impaired.  Amortizing intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator.  A decrease in the long-term economic outlook and future cash flows of the legacy Tornier business, our recently acquired IMASCAP business or other businesses and technologies that we have acquired could significantly impact asset values and potentially result in the impairment of intangible assets, including goodwill.  If the operating performance of the legacy Tornier business, IMASCAP business or other businesses and technologies that we have acquired significantly decreases,. 38. Table of Contents. competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions or future cash flow estimates decline, we could be required, under current US GAAP, to record a non-cash charge to operating earnings for the amount of the impairment. Any write-off of a material portion of our unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations.. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares and Jurisdiction of Incorporation. The trading volume and prices of our ordinary shares have been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to our shareholders.. The trading volume and prices of our ordinary shares have been and may continue to be volatile and could fluctuate widely due to factors beyond our control.  During 2017, the sale price of our ordinary shares ranged from $22.14 to $31.53.  Such volatility may be the result of broad market and industry factors.  In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ordinary shares may be highly volatile for factors specific to our own operations, including the following:. • variations in our net sales, earnings, and cash flow, and in particular variations that deviate from our projected financial information;. • announcements of new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures;. • announcements of new products by us or our competitors;. • announcements of divestitures or discontinuance of products or assets;. • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • sales of our equity securities by our significant shareholders or management or sales of additional equity securities by our company;. • pending and potential litigation or regulatory investigations; and. • fluctuations in market prices for our products.. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ordinary shares trade.  Shareholders of a public company sometimes bring securities class action suits against the company following periods of instability in the market price of that company's securities.  If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert a significant amount of our management's attention and other resources from our business and operations, which could harm our operating results and require us to incur significant expenses to defend the suit.  Any such class action suit, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation and restrict our ability to raise capital in the future.  In addition, if a claim is successfully made against us, we may be required to pay significant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our ordinary shares, the market price for our ordinary shares and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our ordinary shares is influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business.  If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our ordinary shares, the market price for our ordinary shares likely would decline.  If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for our ordinary shares to decline.. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares could adversely affect their market price.. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future.  We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ordinary shares.. Rights of a holder of ordinary shares are governed by Dutch law and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law.. We are a Dutch public company with limited liability (naamloze vennootschap).  Our corporate affairs and the rights of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association.  The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors may be different from those in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions.  For example, Dutch law does not provide for a shareholder derivative action.  In addition, in the performance of its duties, our board of directors is required by Dutch law to act in the interest of our company and our affiliated business, and to consider the interests of our company, our shareholders, our employees, and other stakeholders, in all cases with reasonableness and fairness.  It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, interests of our shareholders.. 39. Table of Contents. As a result of different shareholder voting requirements in the Netherlands relative to laws in effect in certain states in the United States, we may have less flexibility with respect to the issuance of our ordinary shares than companies organized in the United States.. Currently, our articles of association provide for an authorized share capital consisting of one class of shares, being 320,000,000 ordinary shares, each with a nominal value of \2000.03.  Under Dutch law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an amendment to our articles of association.  Our articles of association can be amended upon a proposal of our board of directors by the general meeting of shareholders, which resolution can be adopted with a simple majority in a meeting where at least one-third of the outstanding shares are represented.  New ordinary shares may be issued pursuant to a resolution of shareholders, or pursuant to such resolution of the board of directors if designated thereto by shareholders.  Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Dutch law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders where shares are being issued for cash consideration.  The right of our shareholders to subscribe for ordinary shares pursuant to preemptive rights may be limited or restricted by our shareholders and our shareholders may delegate such authority to the board of directors. Such designations of authority to our board of directors may remain in effect for up to five years and may be renewed for additional periods of up to five years.. Currently our board of directors is authorized to issue shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital and to limit or exclude pre-emptive rights in respect of such issue of shares until June 18, 2020, without further shareholder approval.  We intend to submit these authorizations to a vote of our shareholders at the annual general meeting that will take place in June 2018. We cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved on a timely basis, especially since our shareholders did not approve these two authorizations the last time we submitted them to a vote of our shareholders at our annual general meeting in June 2016. The failure to renew these authorizations on a timely basis could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect our ability to run our business and the holders of our securities.. U.S. investors may not be able to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters against us or members of our board of directors or officers.. We are organized under the laws of the Netherlands, and, as such, the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and the civil liability of our directors are governed by the laws of the Netherlands and our articles of association.  The rights of shareholders under the laws of the Netherlands may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions.  A substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the United States.  As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on us, or to enforce outside the United States any judgments obtained against us in U.S. courts in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws.  In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce rights predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States (including the Netherlands) or enforce claims for punitive damages.. The United States and the Netherlands currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (other than arbitral awards).  A final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States which is enforceable in the United States, whether or not predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws, would not automatically be recognized or enforceable in the Netherlands.  In order to obtain a judgment which is enforceable in the Netherlands, the party in whose favor a final and conclusive judgment of the U.S. court has been rendered will be required to file its claim with a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands. Such party may submit to a Dutch court the final judgment rendered by the U.S. court.  If and to the extent that the Dutch court finds that the jurisdiction of the U.S. court has been based on grounds which are internationally acceptable and that proper legal procedures have been observed, the Dutch court will generally tend to give binding effect to the judgment of the court of the United States without substantive re-examination or re-litigation on the merits of the subject matter, unless the judgment contravenes principles of public policy of the Netherlands.. There can be no assurance that U.S. investors will be able to enforce against us or members of our board of directors or officers who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the U.S. federal securities laws.. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our ordinary shares.. Our articles of association prescribe that profits or reserves appearing from our annual accounts adopted by the general meeting shall be at the disposal of the general meeting.  We have power to make distributions to shareholders and other persons entitled to distributable profits only to the extent that our equity exceeds the sum of the paid and called-up portion of the ordinary share capital and the reserves that must be maintained in accordance with provisions of Dutch law or our articles of association.  The profits must first be used to set up and maintain reserves required by law and must then be set off against certain financial losses.  We may not make any distribution of profits on ordinary shares that we hold.  The general meeting, whether or not upon the proposal of our board of directors, determines whether and how much of the remaining profit they will reserve and the manner and date of such distribution.  All calculations to determine the amounts available for dividends will be based on our Dutch annual accounts, which may be different from our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.  Beginning. 40. Table of Contents. with our fiscal year 2015, our statutory accounts have been prepared and we expect will continue to be prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards and are deposited with the Trade Register in Amsterdam, the Netherlands.  We have not previously declared or paid cash dividends and we have no plan to declare or pay any dividends in the near future on our ordinary shares.  We currently intend to retain most, if not all, of our available funds and any future earnings to operate and expand our business.. 41. Table of Contents"
