[1] "ITEM  1A.    RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this report. The risk factors are separated into two groups: risks related to our business and our industry and risks related to the spin-off. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company in each of these categories of risks. However, the risks and uncertainties we face are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. 22. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. The hospitality industry is highly competitive and we are subject to risks related to competition that may adversely affect our performance.. We will be adversely impacted if we cannot compete effectively in the highly competitive hospitality industry. Our continued success depends upon our ability to compete effectively in markets that contain numerous competitors, some of which may have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Competition in the hospitality industry is based on brand name recognition and reputation as well as location, price, property size and availability, quality, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. New hotels and resorts may be constructed and these additions to supply may create new competitors, in some cases without corresponding increases in demand. Competition may reduce fee structures, potentially causing us to lower our fees or prices, which may adversely impact our profits. New competition or existing competition that uses a business model that is different from our business model may require us to change our model so that we can remain competitive.. We may not be able to achieve our growth and performance objectives.. We may not be able to achieve our growth and performance objectives for increasing: our earnings and cash flows; the number of franchised and/or managed properties in our hotel business; the number of vacation exchange members and related transactions; and the number of tours and new owners generated and vacation ownership interests sold by our vacation ownership business.. Acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions may not prove successful and could result in operating difficulties.. We regularly consider a wide array of acquisitions and other potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of businesses and real property, joint ventures, business combinations, strategic investments and dispositions. Any of these transactions could be material to our business. We often compete for these opportunities with third parties, which may cause us to lose potential opportunities or to pay more than we may otherwise have paid absent such competition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and consummate strategic transactions and opportunities on favorable terms or that any such strategic transactions or opportunities, if consummated, will be successful. Assimilating any strategic transactions may also create unforeseen operating difficulties and costs.. On January 17, 2018, the Company and La Quinta entered into a definitive agreement, pursuant to which the Company agreed to acquire La Quinta's franchising and management business, and on February 15, 2018, the Company accepted a binding offer, pursuant to which an affiliate of Platinum Equity, LLC (\"Platinum\") agreed to acquire our European vacation rentals business. The completion of these transactions is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including, with respect to the La Quinta acquisition, the receipt of approval from the La Quinta shareholders, and for both transactions, government and regulatory approvals. If any conditions are not satisfied, the respective transactions may not be completed on the proposed terms, within the expected timeframes, or at all. If either or both of the proposed transactions are not completed, we will have incurred substantial expenses and diverted significant management time and resources from our ongoing business without the intended benefit.. If the proposed La Quinta acquisition is completed, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all and may take longer to realize than expected. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming, which could adversely affect our businesses, financial results and financial condition. Even if we are able to integrate the acquired company successfully, the acquisition may not result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that we expect to realize or these benefits may not be achieved within a reasonable period of time.. Dispositions of businesses, such as our proposed European vacation rentals transaction, pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business, including required separation or carve-out activities and costs or disputes with buyers. We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had previously anticipated. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement, as we may be required to retain responsibility for, or agree to indemnify buyers against, credit support obligations, contingent liabilities related to a divested business, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, or other matters. Under these types of arrangements, performance by the divested business or other conditions outside of our control could affect our financial condition or results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. We are dependent on our senior management and the loss of any member of our senior management could harm our business.. We believe that our future growth depends in part on the continued services of our senior management team. Losing the services of any member of our senior management team could adversely affect our strategic and customer relationships and impede our ability to execute our business strategies. The market for qualified individuals may be highly competitive and finding and recruiting suitable replacements for senior management may be difficult, time consuming and costly.. Our revenues are highly dependent on the travel industry and declines in or disruptions to the travel industry such as those caused by economic conditions, terrorism, political strife, severe weather events and other acts of God, war and pandemics or threats of pandemics may adversely affect us.. Declines in or disruptions to the travel industry may adversely impact us. Risks affecting the travel industry include: economic slowdown and recession; economic factors such as increased costs of living and reduced discretionary income adversely impacting decisions by consumers and businesses to use and consume travel services and products; terrorist incidents and threats and associated heightened travel security measures; political and regional strife; acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods, volcanoes and other natural disasters; war; concerns with or threats of pandemics, contagious diseases or health epidemics; environmental disasters; increased pricing, financial instability and capacity constraints of air carriers; airline job actions and strikes; and increases in gasoline and other fuel prices.. We are subject to numerous business, financial, operating and other risks common to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and our ability to make distributions and limit opportunities for growth.. Our business is subject to numerous business, financial, operating and other risks common to the hospitality industry, including adverse changes with respect to any of the following:. • consumer travel and vacation patterns and consumer preferences;. • increased travel costs, including air travel, which could negatively impact consumer preferences for our hotel, resort and rental destinations;. • increased or unanticipated operating costs, including as a result of inflation, energy costs and labor costs such as minimum wage increases and unionization, workers' compensation and health-care related costs and insurance which may not be fully offset by price or fee increases in our business or otherwise;. • desirability of geographic regions where hotels or resorts in our business are located;. • the supply and demand for hotel rooms, destination network services and products and vacation ownership services and products;. • seasonality in our businesses, which may cause fluctuations in our operating results;. • geographic concentrations of our operations and customers;. • the availability of acceptable financing and the cost of capital as they apply to us, our customers, current and potential hotel franchisees and developers, owners of hotels with which we have hotel management contracts, our RCI affiliates and other developers of vacation ownership resorts and timeshare property owner associations;. • our ability to enter into new, or renew existing, hotel franchise agreements on favorable terms or at all;. • the quality of the services provided by franchisees, affiliated resorts and properties in our destination network business or resorts in which we sell vacation ownership interests or participants in the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program, which may adversely affect our image, reputation and brand value;. • overbuilding or excess capacity in one or more segments of the hospitality industry or in one or more geographic regions;. • our ability to develop and maintain positive relations and contractual arrangements with current and potential franchisees, hotel owners, vacation exchange members, vacation ownership interest owners, resorts with units that are exchanged through our destination network business and timeshare property owner associations;. • organized labor activities and associated litigation;. • the bankruptcy or insolvency of any one of our customers, which could impair our ability to collect outstanding fees or other amounts due or otherwise exercise our contractual rights;. • our effectiveness in keeping pace with technological developments, which could impair our competitive position;. • disruptions, including non-renewal or termination of agreements, in relationships with third parties including marketing alliances and affiliations with e-commerce channels;. • changes in the number, occupancy and room rates of hotels operating under franchise and management agreements;. • impact of our hotel franchisees' pricing decisions on revenues from our hotel business;. • our ability to enter into new, or renew existing, hotel management arrangements on favorable terms or at all, and to fund shortfalls as required by certain of our management agreements;. 24. Table of Contents. • franchisees, owners or other developers that have development advance notes with, or who have received loans or other financial arrangements incentives from, us may experience financial difficulties;. • consolidation of developers could adversely affect our destination network business;. • decrease in the supply of available destination network accommodations due to, among other reasons, a decrease in inventory included in the system or resulting from ongoing property renovations or a decrease in member deposits could adversely affect our destination network business;. • decrease in or delays or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects;. • the viability of property owners' associations that we manage and the maintenance and refurbishment of vacation ownership properties, which depend on property owners associations levying sufficient maintenance fees and the ability of members to pay such maintenance fees;. • increases in maintenance fees, which could cause our product to become less attractive or less competitive;. • our ability to securitize the receivables that we originate in connection with sales of vacation ownership interests;. • defaults on loans to purchasers of vacation ownership interests who finance the purchase price of such vacation ownerships;. • the level of unlawful or deceptive third-party vacation ownership interest resale schemes, which could damage our reputation and brand value;. • the availability of and competition for desirable sites for the development of vacation ownership properties, difficulties associated with obtaining required approvals to develop vacation ownership properties, liability under state and local laws with respect to any construction defects in the vacation ownership properties we develop, and risks related to real estate project development costs and completion;. • private resale of vacation ownership interests and the sale of vacation ownership interests on the secondary market, which could adversely affect our vacation ownership resorts and destination network business;. • disputes with franchisees, vacation exchange affiliation partners, owners of vacation ownership interests and property owners associations, which may result in litigation and the loss of management contracts;. • laws, regulations and legislation internationally and domestically, and on a federal, state or local level, concerning the hospitality industry, which may make the operation of our business more onerous, more expensive or less profitable;. • our failure or inability to adequately protect and maintain our trademarks and other intellectual property rights; and. • market perception of the hospitality industry and negative publicity from online social media postings and related media reports, which could damage our brands.. Any of these factors could increase our costs, reduce our revenues or otherwise adversely impact our opportunities for growth.. Third-party Internet reservation systems and peer-to-peer online networks may adversely impact us.. Consumers increasingly use third-party Internet travel intermediaries and peer-to-peer online networks to search for and book their hotel, resort and other travel accommodations. As the percentage of Internet reservations increases, travel intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions and reduced room rates from us to the detriment of our business. Such travel intermediaries may divert reservations away from our direct online channels or increase the overall cost of Internet reservations for our affiliated hotels and resorts through their fees. Additionally, as the use of these third-party reservation channels and peer-to-peer online networks increases, consumers may rely on these channels, adversely affecting our hotel and resort, rental and vacation ownership brands, reservation systems, bookings and rates. The continued development and use of peer-to-peer online networks for lodging and vacation rentals are also causing some local governments to enact bans or restrictions on short-term property rentals that may adversely impact our vacation rental business. In addition, if we fail to reach satisfactory agreements with travel intermediaries as our contracts with them come up for periodic renewal, our hotels and resorts may no longer appear on their websites and we could lose business as a result.. In addition to competing with traditional hotels, resorts, lodging and vacation rental properties, our franchisees and our vacation rental business compete with alternative lodging channels, including third-party providers of short-term rental properties and serviced apartments. Increasing use of these alternative lodging channels could materially adversely affect the occupancy and/or average rates and prices at our franchised hotels, resorts and vacation properties and our revenues.. We are subject to risks related to our vacation ownership receivables portfolio.. We are subject to risks that purchasers of vacation ownership interests who finance a portion of the purchase price default on their loans due to adverse macro or personal economic conditions, third-party organizations that encourage defaults, or otherwise, which necessitates increases in loan loss reserves and adversely affects loan portfolio performance. When such defaults occur during the early part of the loan amortization period, we may not have recovered the marketing, selling, administrative and other costs associated with such vacation ownership interests. Additional costs are incurred in connection. 25. Table of Contents. with the resale of repossessed vacation ownership interests, and the value we recover in a resale is not in all instances sufficient to cover the outstanding debt on the defaulted loan.. Our international operations are subject to additional risks not generally applicable to our domestic operations.. Our international operations are subject to numerous risks, including exposure to local economic conditions; potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the U.S.; hostility from local populations; political instability; threats or acts of terrorism; the effect of disruptions caused by severe weather, natural disasters, outbreak of disease or other events that make travel to a particular region less attractive or more difficult; the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; restrictions and taxes on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings; government policies against businesses or properties owned by foreigners; investment restrictions or requirements; diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign countries; forced nationalization of assets by local, state or national governments; foreign exchange restrictions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; conflicts between local laws and U.S. laws including laws that impact our rights to protect our intellectual property; withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and changes in and application of foreign taxation structures including value added taxes. Any of these risks or any adverse outcome resulting from the financial instability or performance of foreign economies, the instability of other currencies and the related volatility on foreign exchange and interest rates, could impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. Changes in U.S. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to taxation at the federal, state and local levels in the United States and various other countries and jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rate and future cash flows could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax, and our ability to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, U.S. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. This includes potential changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws arising out of the Base Erosion Profit Shifting project initiated by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development.. We are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in U.S. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. An unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations.. Additionally, U.S. federal tax reform legislation was recently enacted which broadly reforms the corporate tax system. The tax reform law, which among other items, reduces the U.S. corporate tax rate, eliminates or limits the deduction of certain expenses which were previously deductible, imposes a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on undistributed historic earnings of foreign subsidiaries and requires a minimum tax on earnings generated by foreign subsidiaries, could have a significant impact on our effective tax rate, cash tax expenses and/or deferred income tax balances.. We are subject to certain risks related to our indebtedness, hedging transactions, securitization of certain of our assets, surety bond requirements, the cost and availability of capital and the extension of credit by us.. We are a borrower of funds under credit facilities, credit lines, senior notes, a term loan, commercial paper programs and securitization financings. We extend credit to purchasers of vacation ownership interests and in instances where we provide key money, development advance notes and mezzanine or other forms of subordinated financing to assist franchisees and hotel and resort owners in converting to or building a new hotel or resort under one of our brands. We also extend credit at times to developers of vacation ownership properties. We use financial instruments to reduce or hedge our financial exposure to the effects of currency and interest rate fluctuations. We are required to post surety bonds in connection with our development and sales activities. In connection with our debt obligations, hedging transactions, securitization of certain of our assets, surety bond requirements, the cost and availability of capital and the extension of credit by us, we are subject to numerous risks, including:. • our cash flows from operations or available lines of credit may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, which could result in a default and acceleration of the underlying debt and other debt instruments that contain cross-default provisions;. 26. Table of Contents. • we may be unable to comply with the terms of the financial covenants under our revolving credit facility or other debt, including a breach of the financial ratio tests, which could result in a default and acceleration of the underlying revolver debt and under other debt instruments that contain cross-default provisions;. • our leverage may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all;. • our leverage may require the dedication of a significant portion of our cash flows to the payment of principal and interest thus reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases or other operating needs;. • increases in interest rates may adversely affect our financing costs and the costs of our vacation ownership interest financing and associated increases in hedging costs;. • rating agency downgrades of our debt could increase our borrowing costs and prevent us from obtaining additional financing on favorable terms or at all;. • failure or non-performance of counterparties to foreign exchange and interest rate hedging transactions could result in losses;. • an inability to securitize our vacation ownership loan receivables on terms acceptable to us because of, among other factors, the performance of the vacation ownership loan receivables, adverse conditions in the market for vacation ownership loan-backed notes and asset-backed notes in general and the risk that the actual amount of uncollectible accounts on our securitized vacation ownership loan receivables and other credit we extend is greater than expected;. • breach of portfolio performance triggers under securitization transactions which if violated may result in a disruption or loss of cash flow from such transactions;. • a reduction in commitments from surety bond providers, which may impair our vacation ownership business by requiring us to escrow cash in order to meet regulatory requirements of certain states;. • prohibitive cost, or inadequate availability, of capital could restrict the development or acquisition of vacation ownership resorts by us and the financing of purchases of vacation ownership interests;. • the inability of hotel franchisees and developers of vacation ownership;. • increases in interest rates, which may prevent us from passing along the full amount of such increases to purchasers of vacation ownership interests to whom we provide financing; and. • disruptions in the financial markets, failure of financial institutions that support our credit facilities, general economic conditions and market liquidity factors outside of our control, which may limit our access to short- and long-term financing, credit and capital.. We are subject to risks related to litigation.. We are subject to a number of claims and legal proceedings and the risk of future litigation as described in this report. We cannot predict with certainty the ultimate outcome and related damages and costs of litigation and other proceedings filed or asserted by or against us. Unfavorable rulings or outcomes in litigation and other proceedings may harm our business.. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect us.. Our operations are regulated by federal, state and local governments in the countries in which we operate. In addition, U.S. and international federal, state and local regulators may enact new laws and regulations that may reduce our revenues, cause our expenses to increase or require us to modify our business practices substantially. If we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including, among others, those governing franchising, hotel operations, timeshare (including required government registrations), vacation rentals, consumer financings and other lending, information security, data protection and privacy (including the General Data Protection Regulation), credit card and payment card security standards, marketing, sales, consumer protection and advertising, unfair and deceptive trade practices, fraud, bribery and corruption, telemarketing (including do-not-call and call-recording regulations), licensing, labor, employment, anti-discrimination, health care, health and safety, accessibility, immigration, gaming, environmental (including climate change) and remediation, intellectual property, securities, stock exchange listing, accounting, tax and regulations applicable under the Dodd-Frank Act, Office of Foreign Asset Control, Americans with Disabilities Act, the Sherman Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local equivalents in international jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom Bribery Act, we may be subject to regulatory investigations or actions, fines, civil and/or criminal penalties, injunctions and potential criminal prosecution.. While we continue to monitor all such laws and regulations and provide training to our employees as part of our compliance programs, the cost of compliance with such laws and regulations impacts our operating costs and compliance with such laws and regulations may also impact or restrict the manner in which we operate and market our business. There can be no assurance that our compliance programs will protect us against any non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Future changes to such laws and regulations and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect us.. 27. Table of Contents. Failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable and proprietary information, non-compliance with our contractual obligations or other legal obligations regarding such information or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such information could adversely affect us.. In connection with our business, we and our service providers collect and retain large volumes of certain types of personal and proprietary information pertaining to our guests, shareholders and employees. Such information includes, but is not limited to, large volumes of guest credit and payment card information. We are at risk of attack by cyber-criminals operating on a global basis attempting to gain access to such information. In connection with data security incidents involving a group of Wyndham brand hotels that occurred between 2008 and 2010, we, our hotel group and one of our hotel group subsidiaries are subject to a stipulated order with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\") pursuant to which, among other things, the subsidiary is required to maintain an information security program for payment card information within the subsidiary's network and which provides the hotel group subsidiary with a safe harbor provided it continues to meet certain requirements for reasonable data security as outlined in the stipulated order.. While we maintain what we believe are reasonable security controls over personal and proprietary information, including the personal information of guests, shareholders and employees, a breach of or breakdown in our systems that results in the unauthorized release of personal or proprietary information could nevertheless occur, or we could fail to comply with the stipulated order with the FTC any of which could have a material adverse effect on our brands, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as subject us to significant regulatory actions and fines, litigation, losses, third-party damages and other liabilities. Such a breach or a breakdown could also materially increase our costs to protect such information and to protect against such risks.. Additionally, the legal and regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy in the United States and international jurisdictions is constantly evolving. Should we violate or not comply with any of these laws or regulations, contractual requirements relating to data security and privacy, or with our own privacy and security policies, either intentionally or unintentionally, or through the acts of intermediaries, it could have a material adverse effect on our brands, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as subject us to significant fines, litigation, losses, third-party damages and other liabilities.. Our information technology infrastructure, including but not limited to our, and our third-party service providers', information systems and legacy proprietary online reservation and management systems, has been and will likely continue to be vulnerable to system failures, computer hacking, cyber-terrorism, computer viruses and other intentional or unintentional interference, negligence, fraud, misuse and other unauthorized attempts to access or interfere with these systems and our personal and proprietary information. In addition, as we transition from our legacy systems to new, cloud-based technologies, we may face start-up issues that may negatively impact guests. The increased scope and complexity of our information technology infrastructure and systems could contribute to the potential risk of security breaches or breakdown.. The insurance we carry may not always pay, or be sufficient to pay or reimburse us, for our liabilities, losses or replacement costs.. We carry insurance for general liability, property, business interruption, cyber security, and other insurable risks with respect to our business and franchised, managed and owned hotels, resorts and other properties. We also self-insure for certain risks up to certain monetary limits. The terms and conditions or the amounts of coverage of our insurance may not at all times be sufficient to pay or reimburse us for the amount of our liabilities, losses or replacement costs, and there may also be risks for which we do not obtain insurance in the full amount or at all concerning a potential loss or liability, due to the cost or availability of such insurance. As a result, we may incur liabilities or losses in the operation of our business that are substantial, which are not sufficiently covered by the insurance we maintain, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Following the significant casualty losses incurred by the insurance industry due to hurricanes, fires and other events, property insurance costs may be higher, and availability may be lower, in future periods, particularly in certain geographies.. We rely on information technologies and systems to operate our business, which involves reliance on third-party service providers and on uninterrupted operation of service facilities.. We rely on information technologies and systems to operate our business, which involves reliance on third-party service providers and on uninterrupted operation of service facilities, including those used for reservation systems, vacation exchange systems, hotel/property management, communications, procurement, member record databases, call centers, operation of our loyalty programs and administrative systems. We also maintain physical facilities to support these systems and related services. Any natural disaster, disruption or other impairment in our technology capabilities and service facilities or those of our third-. 28. Table of Contents. party service providers could result in financial losses, customer claims, litigation or damage to our reputation, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, any failure of our ability to provide our reservation systems, as a result of failures related to us or our third-party providers, may deter prospective franchisees, hotel, or resort owners from entering into agreements with us, and may expose us to liability from existing franchisees or other parties with whom we have contracted to provide reservation services. Similarly, failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position.. We are subject to risks related to corporate social responsibility.. Many factors influence our reputation and the value of our brands including the perception held by our customers, franchisees and other key stakeholders and the communities in which we do business. Our business faces increasing scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance activities and risk of damage to our reputation and the value of our brands if we fail to act responsibly or comply with regulatory requirements in a number of areas, such as safety and security, responsible tourism, environmental stewardship, supply chain management, climate change, diversity, human rights and modern slavery, philanthropy and support for local communities.. The trading price of our shares of common stock may fluctuate.. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate depending upon many factors some of which may be beyond our control including our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to seasonality and other factors related to our business; the planned spin-off of our hotel and resort business as well as our ability or perceived ability to realize the benefits of the planned spin-off; our credit ratings, including the impact of the planned spin-off on such ratings; changes in accounting principles or rules; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; the lack of securities analysts covering our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; overall market fluctuations; and general economic conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Your percentage ownership in Wyndham Worldwide may be diluted in the future.. Your percentage ownership in Wyndham Worldwide may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that we have and expect will be granted over time to our Directors and employees. In addition, our Board of Directors (\"Board\") may issue shares of our common and preferred stock and debt securities convertible into shares of our common and preferred stock up to certain regulatory thresholds without shareholder approval.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and under Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of Wyndham Worldwide which could impact the trading price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include that shareholders do not have the right to act by written consent, rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings, the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval and limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock.. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to pay dividends or purchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase program.. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient cash or surplus under Delaware law to be able to continue to pay dividends or purchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. This may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures, increases in reserves or lack of available capital. Our Board may also suspend the payment of dividends or our stock repurchase program if the Board deems such action to be in the best interests of our shareholders. If we do not pay dividends, the price of our common stock must appreciate for you to realize a gain on your investment in Wyndham Worldwide. This appreciation may not occur and our stock may in fact depreciate in value.. 29. Table of Contents. We are responsible for certain of Cendant's contingent and other corporate liabilities.. Under the separation agreement and the tax sharing agreement that we executed with Cendant (now Avis Budget Group) and former Cendant units, Realogy and Travelport, we and Realogy generally are responsible for 37.5% and 62.5%, respectively, of certain of Cendant's contingent and other corporate liabilities and associated costs including certain contingent and other corporate liabilities of Cendant or its subsidiaries to the extent incurred on or prior to August 23, 2006. These liabilities include those relating to certain of Cendant's terminated or divested businesses, the Travelport sale, certain Cendant-related litigation, actions with respect to the separation plan and payments under certain contracts that were not allocated to any specific party in connection with the separation.. If any party responsible for the liabilities described above were to default on its obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay an equal portion of the amounts in default. Accordingly, we could under certain circumstances be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our share of the assumed obligations related to such liabilities including associated costs.. Changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets or operating results that are lower than our current estimates may cause us to incur impairment losses and require us to write-off all or a portion of the remaining value of our goodwill or other intangibles of companies we have acquired.. Our total assets include goodwill and other intangible assets. We evaluate our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. We may be required to record a significant non-cash impairment charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill, other intangible assets or other assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations and shareholders' equity.. Risks Related to our Proposed Spin-Off. The proposed spin-off of our hotel business is subject to various risks, uncertainties and conditions and as a result may not be completed in accordance with the expected plan or at all, and could have a material adverse effect on us whether or not the spin-off is completed.. On August 2, 2017, we announced our plan to pursue the separation of our business into two separate, publicly-traded companies through a spin-off of our hotel business. The proposed spin-off is subject to final Board approval of the terms of the transaction, which approval may be given or withheld in its absolute and sole discretion, and other customary conditions, including, among other things, the receipt of tax opinions from the spin-off tax advisors concerning the tax-free nature of the transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the effectiveness of a Form 10 registration statement filed with the SEC, approval of listing of the hotel business common stock on the stock exchange chosen for the listing of such common stock, opinions from a nationally recognized valuation firm as to the capital adequacy and solvency of both us and the hotel business being spun off after giving effect to the spin-off and the adequate surplus of the Company to declare the spin-off distribution, and the entry into adequate financing transactions in connection with the spin-off. Our plan to complete the spin-off is also based on and subject to our ability to complete all of the transactions contemplated by the spin-off, changes or other unexpected developments in the competitive marketplace, and changes and uncertainty in the financial, lending or equity markets. For these and other reasons, there can be no assurance that the spin-off will be completed within the anticipated time period or at all, or on terms that are the same or as favorable as the terms currently contemplated.. While we are pursuing the spin-off, and whether or not the transaction is completed, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected, including as a result of one or more of the following: the proposed spin-off has required significant time and attention of management, which may distract them from the normal operation of our business and from pursuing or executing existing or future initiatives or other opportunities to drive our business; the proposed spin-off may cause uncertainty among our key employees concerning their future with us or with the spin-off company, leading to potential significant distraction, as well as potentially making it more difficult to attract, retain or motivate key employees during the pendency of the spin-off and following its planned completion; the proposed spin-off could result in disruptions to and potentially adversely impact our relationships with our suppliers, customers and others with whom we do business; the proposed spin-off has to date been time-consuming and has involved significant costs to us, which may be considerably higher than we anticipated and may not yield a benefit if the spin-off is not completed; the proposed spin-off may have an adverse impact on our credit ratings; challenges in separating our businesses, including separating the infrastructure, processes and personnel of these businesses, may result in delays and additional costs in achieving the completion of the proposed separation; implementation of and changes in the new senior management teams at these businesses may distract from the normal operation of business, could cause uncertainty among employees or otherwise adversely impact our ongoing businesses; and the investment community's perception of us and. 30. Table of Contents. the trading price of our common stock could be negatively impacted if the spin-off is not completed within the anticipated time period or at all.. The completion of the proposed spin-off may not achieve some or all of the benefits expected from the separation of these businesses.. Even if the spin-off is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the separation of our businesses, and the spin-off may adversely affect our business. Separating the businesses will result in two independent, publicly traded companies, each of which will be a smaller, less diversified and more narrowly focused business than Wyndham Worldwide, making the companies more vulnerable to changing market and economic conditions and the risk of takeover by third parties. Operating as smaller, independent entities may reduce or eliminate some of the benefits and synergies which currently exist across our business platforms at Wyndham Worldwide, including our operating diversity, purchasing and borrowing leverage, available capital for investments, partnerships and relationships and opportunities to pursue integrated strategies with the businesses within Wyndham Worldwide and ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. In addition, as a smaller company, our ability to absorb costs may be negatively impacted, including the significant one-time cost of this spin-off transaction which will be allocated to us as the remaining company, and we may be unable to obtain financings, goods or services at prices or on terms as favorable as those obtained by Wyndham Worldwide prior to the separation. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, business prospects and the trading price of our common stock. By separating our hotel business from Wyndham Worldwide, we also may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would be if we did not spin-off the hotel business. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of the spin-off, or do not achieve them in the time we expect, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. If the proposed spin-off of our hotel business is completed, the trading price of our common stock will decline.. The trading price of our common stock immediately following the spin-off of our hotel business is expected to be significantly lower than immediately prior to the spin-off because the value of our common stock will no longer reflect the spun-off business. There also can be no assurance that the combined value of our common stock and the value of the common stock of the spun-off business following the completion of the spin-off will be equal to or greater than the value of our common stock had we not separated the businesses pursuant to the spin-off.. The spin-off and related transactions may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.. While we will receive a solvency opinion from an investment bank confirming that we and the hotel business being spun off will be adequately capitalized immediately after the spin-off, the spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. An unpaid creditor could claim that Wyndham Worldwide did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the spin-off, and that the spin-off left Wyndham Worldwide insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that Wyndham Worldwide intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. If a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, including without limitation, returning the assets or the shares of common stock in the hotel business being distributed as part of the spin-off or providing Wyndham Worldwide with a claim for money damages against the spun-off business in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by Wyndham Worldwide and the fair market value of the spun-off business at the time of the spin-off.. Certain directors who serve on our Board of Directors will serve as directors of the hotel business at and following the spin-off, and ownership of shares of common stock of the hotel business at and following the spin-off by our directors and executive officers may create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest.. Certain of our directors who serve on our Board of Directors are expected to serve on the board of directors of the hotel business being spun-off. This may create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when our or the hotel business's management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for us and the hotel business, including the resolution of any dispute regarding the terms of the agreements governing the spin-off and the relationship between us and the hotel business after the spin-off or any other commercial agreements entered into in the future between us and the hotel business.. Substantially all of our executive officers and some or all of our non-employee directors will own shares of the common stock of the hotel business being spun off. The continued ownership of such common stock by our directors and executive officers following the spin-off creates or may create the appearance of a conflict of interest when these directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and the hotel business.. 31. Table of Contents. If the distribution, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as a reorganization for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Code), then our shareholders, we and the hotel business being spun-off might be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes.. The distribution is conditioned upon our receipt of opinions of our spin-off tax advisors, to the effect that the distribution, together with certain related transactions, will qualify as a reorganization for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code in which no gain or loss is recognized by us or our shareholders, except, in the case of our shareholders, for cash received in lieu of fractional shares. The opinions of our spin-off tax advisors will be based on, among other things, certain assumptions as well as on the continuing accuracy of certain factual representations and statements that we and the hotel business will make to the spin-off tax advisors. In rendering their opinions, the spin-off tax advisors will also rely on certain covenants that we and the hotel business enter into, including the adherence by us and by the hotel business to certain restrictions on future actions to be contained in a tax matters agreement. If any of the representations or statements that we or the hotel business make are or become inaccurate or incomplete, or if we or the hotel business breach any of such covenants, the distribution and such related transactions might not qualify for such tax treatment. The opinions of the spin-off tax advisors are not binding on the IRS or a court, and there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the validity of the distribution and such related transactions as a reorganization for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code eligible for tax-free treatment, or that any such challenge ultimately will not prevail.. In addition, we have requested a private letter ruling from the IRS Ruling regarding certain U.S. federal income tax aspects of transactions related to the spin-off (IRS Ruling). Although the IRS Ruling generally will be binding on the IRS, the continued validity of the IRS Ruling will be based upon and subject to the continuing accuracy of factual statements and representations made to the IRS by us. In addition, there is a risk that the IRS could promulgate new administrative guidance prior to the spin-off that could adversely impact the tax-free treatment of the distribution (even taking into account the receipt of the IRS Ruling). The IRS Ruling will be limited to specified aspects of the spin-off under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code and will not represent a determination by the IRS that all of the requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment to holders of Wyndham Worldwide common stock and to Wyndham Worldwide have been satisfied.. If the distribution does not qualify as a tax-free transaction for any reason, including as a result of a breach of a representation or covenant, we would recognize a substantial gain attributable to the hotel business for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In such case, under U.S. Treasury regulations, each member of the Wyndham Worldwide consolidated group at the time of the spin-off (including the hotel business) would be jointly and severally liable for the entire resulting amount of any U.S. federal income tax liability. Additionally, if the distribution of the common stock of the spun-off business does not qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the Code, Wyndham Worldwide shareholders will be treated as having received a taxable distribution equal to the value of the stock distributed, treated as a taxable dividend to the extent of Wyndham Worldwide's current and accumulated earnings and profits, and then would have a tax-free basis recovery up to the amount of their tax basis in their shares, and then would have taxable gain from the sale or exchange of the shares to the extent of any excess.. 32. Table of Contents"
