[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, regarding matters that could have an adverse effect, including a material one, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to our Business. The controversy, regulatory action, litigation and investigations related to Stephen A. Wynn and his separation from the Company could significantly harm our business.. On February 6, 2018, Mr. Wynn resigned as CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors after allegations of inappropriate personal conduct by Mr. Wynn in the workplace were reported in a January 26, 2018 Wall Street Journal article. The resulting controversy related to Mr. Wynn and his separation from the Company could significantly harm our business in numerous ways, including in ways that we cannot predict. As discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, gaming regulators in Macau, Massachusetts and Nevada are reviewing the situation. Each of these regulatory authorities has extensive power to license and oversee the operations of our casino resorts and could take action against the Company and its related licensees or Mr. Wynn, including actions that could affect the ability or terms upon which our subsidiaries hold their gaming licenses and concessions, the suitability of the Company to continue as a stockholder of those subsidiaries, and/or the suitability of Mr. Wynn to continue as a stockholder of the Company. As discussed in Item 3 - \"Legal Proceedings\" and Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 14, \"Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation,\" lawsuits have been filed against the Company and our Board of Directors arising out of the allegations against Mr. Wynn, and such claims present a number of risks, including distraction of management, assertions that could affect our reputation, and potential legal liabilities. Additional allegations have been and may in the future be asserted against Mr. Wynn and/or the Company, and additional regulatory or legal proceedings involving the Company may be commenced in the future. The developments regarding Mr. Wynn have and may in the future affect the course of proceedings and the parties' position in litigation in which Elaine P. Wynn, Mr. Wynn's former spouse, submitted a cross claim seeking to void a stockholders agreement to which she and Mr. Wynn are parties. The cross claim, if successful, could increase the possibility of a change in control occurring for purposes of. 16. Table of Contents. certain Wynn Las Vegas, LLC debt documents. For additional information on the cross claim, see Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 14, \"Commitments and Contingencies.\"  In addition, the Company's integrated resort business model was pioneered by Mr. Wynn. Our business, reputation, and competitive position may now suffer as a result of our association with Mr. Wynn, or as a result of his separation from the Company and the loss of his skills and experience.. We are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations. The cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations and authorities could have a negative effect on our business.. The operations of our resorts are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations in the jurisdictions in which our resorts are located. The laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. The NGC may require the holder of any debt or securities we or Wynn Las Vegas, LLC issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own Wynn Resorts' securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada.. The Company's articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the Board of Directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the Company's or any affiliate's application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of Wynn Resorts' capital stock that are owned or controlled by such unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by Wynn Resorts. The redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as Wynn Resorts elects. On February 18, 2012, after receiving a report from Freeh, Sporkin & Sullivan, LLP (the \"Freeh Report\") detailing numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") by Kazuo Okada (formerly the largest beneficial owner of Wynn Resorts' shares) and certain of his affiliates, the Board of Directors of Wynn Resorts determined that Aruze USA Inc. (\"Aruze\"), Universal Entertainment Corporation, and Mr. Kazuo Okada (collectively, the \"Okada Parties\") were \"unsuitable\" within the meaning of Article VII of Wynn Resorts' articles of incorporation and redeemed all of Aruze's shares of Wynn Resorts' common stock. See Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 14, \"Commitments and Contingencies.\". Nevada and Massachusetts regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approvals; approve changes in our operations; and levy fines or require forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations. Complying with gaming laws, regulations and license requirements is costly. Any change in the Nevada and Massachusetts laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures and forfeit assets, and would negatively affect our gaming operations.. Our Macau Operations are subject to unique risks. Failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in Macau could result in the revocation of our Macau Operations' concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in Macau. Moreover, we are subject to the risk that U.S. regulators could determine that Macau's gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in Macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the Nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the United States.. In connection with the allegations of inappropriate personal conduct by Mr. Wynn in the workplace reported in a January 26, 2018 Wall Street Journal article, gaming regulators in Massachusetts and Nevada are reviewing the allegations, the Company's internal policies and procedures with respect to maintaining a safe and respectful workplace for all employees and suitability with respect to the Company and its related licensees. The gaming regulator in Macau is monitoring and reviewing the situation. Each of these regulatory authorities has extensive power to license and oversee the operations of our casino resorts and could take action against the Company and its related licensees or Mr. Wynn, including actions that could affect the ability or terms upon which our subsidiaries hold their gaming licenses and concessions, the suitability of the Company to continue as a stockholder of those affiliates and/or the suitability of Mr. Wynn to continue as a stockholder of the Company.. 17. Table of Contents. Ongoing investigations, litigation and other disputes could distract management and result in negative publicity and additional scrutiny from regulators.. There has been widespread publicity of the findings in the Freeh Report of prima facie violations of law by Mr. Okada and his affiliates, the Board of Directors' unsuitability finding, the redemption of shares and related litigation. In addition, Elaine P. Wynn has asserted various claims against Mr. Wynn, the Company and various Company officers, which have and may continue to draw adverse publicity or impugn the Company's reputation.. On January 26, 2018, the Company's Board of Directors formed a Special Committee comprised solely of independent directors to investigate allegations of inappropriate personal conduct by Mr. Wynn in the workplace. On February 12, 2018, the Special Committee announced that its review was expanded to include a comprehensive review of the Company's internal policies and procedures with the goal of employing best practices to maintain a safe and respectful workplace for all employees. Gaming regulators in Massachusetts and Nevada are reviewing these matters, including suitability with respect to the Company and its related licensees, and the Company is cooperating with these regulatory reviews. The gaming regulator in Macau is monitoring and reviewing the situation, and the Company is cooperating.. The foregoing investigations, litigation and other disputes and any additional such matters that may arise in the future, can be expensive and may divert management's attention from the operations of our businesses. The investigations, litigation and other disputes may also lead to additional scrutiny from regulators, which could lead to investigations relating to, and possibly a negative impact on, the Company's gaming licenses and the Company's ability to bid successfully for new gaming market opportunities. In addition, the actions, litigation and publicity could negatively impact our business, reputation and competitive position and could reduce demand for shares of Wynn Resorts and WML and thereby have a negative impact on the trading prices of their respective shares.. We depend on the continued services of key managers and employees. If we do not retain our key personnel or attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business will suffer.. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the services of our senior management team. The loss of services of our senior managers or the inability to attract and retain additional senior management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of global economic conditions.. Consumer demand for casino/hotel resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to changes in the global economy, which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general global economic conditions, high unemployment, weakness in housing or oil markets, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, an economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the global economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism have in the past and could in the future reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results.. Also, consumer demographics and preferences may evolve over time, which, for example, has resulted in growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and react to those trends and any failure to do so may negatively impact our operating results.. Visitation to Macau may decline due to economic disruptions in mainland China, restrictions on visitations to Macau from citizens of mainland China and the anti-corruption or similar campaigns.. A significant number of our gaming customers at our Macau Operations come from mainland China. Economic disruption, contraction and uncertainty in China could impact the number of patrons visiting our Macau Operations or the amount they may be willing to spend. In addition, policies adopted from time to time by the Chinese government, including any travel restrictions imposed by China on its citizens such as restrictions imposed on exit visas granted to residents of mainland China for travel to Macau, could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China to our property. It is not known when, or if, policies restricting visitation by mainland Chinese citizens to Macau and Hong Kong, will be put in place and travel policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. Furthermore, the Chinese government's continuing anti-corruption campaign has influenced the behavior of Chinese consumers and their spending patterns both domestically and abroad. The campaign and mainland Chinese monetary outflow policies have specifically led to tighter monetary transfer regulations, including real time monitoring of certain financial channels, limitations on cash withdrawals from ATM machines by mainland China citizens and. 18. Table of Contents. the reduction of annual withdrawal limits from bank accounts while the account holder is outside of mainland China. These policies may impact the number of visitors and the amount of money they bring from mainland China to Macau. The overall effect of these policies may negatively affect our revenues and results of operations.. Our business is particularly sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel to and spend time at our resorts. Acts or the threat of acts of terrorism, regional political events and developments in certain countries could cause severe disruptions in air and other travel and may otherwise negatively impact tourists' willingness to visit our resorts. Such events or developments could reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. Only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by local residents. Most of our customers travel to reach our Las Vegas and Macau properties. Acts of terrorism or concerns over the possibility of such acts may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to Las Vegas and Macau, including our properties. Regional conflicts could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel. Disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war or worldwide infectious disease outbreak would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Furthermore, the attack in Las Vegas on October 1, 2017 underscores the possibility that large public facilities could become the target of mass shootings or other attacks in the future. The occurrence or the possibility of attacks could cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising from death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attack; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums, all of which could adversely affect our results.. Our continued success depends on our ability to maintain the reputation of our resorts.. Our strategy and integrated resort business model rely on positive perceptions of our resorts and the level of service we provide.  Any deterioration in our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.  Our reputation could be negatively impacted by our failure to deliver the superior design and customer service for which we are known or by events that are beyond our control.  Our reputation may also suffer as a result of negative publicity regarding the Company or our resorts, including as a result of social media reports, regardless of the accuracy of such publicity.  The continued expansion of media and social media formats has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity and has made it more difficult to control and effectively manage negative publicity.. Mr. Okada and his affiliates have challenged the redemption of Aruze's Shares. An adverse judgment or settlement resulting from the related litigation could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business.. On February 18, 2012, Wynn Resorts' Gaming Compliance Committee received the Freeh Report detailing a pattern of misconduct by the Okada Parties. After receiving the Freeh Report, the Board of Directors of Wynn Resorts determined that each of the Okada Parties was \"unsuitable\" within the meaning of Article VII of Wynn Resorts' articles of incorporation and redeemed all of Aruze's shares of Wynn Resorts' common stock. See Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 14, \"Commitments and Contingencies.\" On February 19, 2012, Wynn Resorts filed a complaint in the Eighth Judicial District Court, Clark County, Nevada against the Okada Parties (as amended, the \"Complaint\"), alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and related claims (the \"Redemption Action\") arising from the activities addressed in the Freeh Report. The Company is seeking compensatory and special damages as well as a declaration that it acted lawfully and in full compliance with its articles of incorporation, bylaws and other governing documents in redeeming and canceling the shares of Aruze. On March 12, 2012, the Okada Parties filed an answer denying the claims and a counterclaim (as amended, the \"Counterclaim\") against the Company, each of the members of the Company's Board of Directors (other than Mr. Okada) and Wynn Resorts' General Counsel (collectively, the \"Wynn Parties\"), seeking, among other things, a declaration that the redemption of Aruze's shares was void, an injunction restoring Aruze's share ownership, damages in an unspecified amount and rescission of the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, dated as of January 6, 2010, by and among Aruze, Stephen A. Wynn, and Elaine P. Wynn (the \"Stockholders Agreement\"). In connection with the Redemption Action and Counterclaim additional actions were commenced. For a full description of these matters and status as of the date of this report, see Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 14, \"Commitments and Contingencies.\" The Company is vigorously pursuing its claims against the Okada Parties, and together with the other counter-defendants, vigorously defending against the Counterclaim and other actions asserted against them. However, as with all litigation, the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. Any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our. 19. Table of Contents. financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties, including current or former investors or regulators. Any adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business.. We are entirely dependent on a limited number of resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties.. We are currently entirely dependent upon our Macau Operations and Las Vegas Operations for all of our operating cash flow. As a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties or greater geographic diversification. The risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following:. • changes in local economic and competitive conditions;. • changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations, and the way in which those laws and regulations are applied;. • natural and other disasters, including the outbreak of infectious diseases;. • an increase in the cost of maintaining our properties;. • a decline in the number of visitors to Las Vegas or Macau; and. • a decrease in gaming and non-casino activities at our resorts.. Any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our results of operations and our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt.. We are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries.. We are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. Our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. Our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future.. Our subsidiaries' payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. In addition, our subsidiaries' debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. We expect that future debt instruments for the financing of our other developments will contain similar restrictions. An inability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends and distributions would have a significant negative effect on our liquidity.. Our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition, which may increase in the future.. The casino/hotel industry is highly competitive. Our Macau Operations face intense competition with approximately 39 other casinos currently operating in Macau. We hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three subconcessions authorized by the Macau government to operate casinos in Macau. The Macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming concessions since April 2009. If the Macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Several of the current concessionaires and subconcessionaires will open additional facilities in the Cotai area over the next few years. Several of the current concessionaires and subconcessionaires have opened facilities in the Cotai area over the past few years, which has significantly increased gaming and non-gaming offerings in Macau, with continued development and further openings in Cotai expected in the near future.. Our Macau Operations face competition from casinos located in Singapore, the Philippines and Malaysia. We also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including Australia and Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout Asia. Further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other Asian countries, such as Japan, are successful, we will face additional regional competition.. Our Las Vegas Operations compete with other Las Vegas Strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in Las Vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. Wynn Las Vegas also competes with other casino/hotel facilities in other cities. The proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. In particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or. 20. Table of Contents. near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. In addition, new or renovated casinos in Macau or elsewhere in Asia could draw Asian gaming customers away from Wynn Las Vegas.. Increased competition could result in a loss of customers, which may negatively affect our cash flows and results of operations.. Our business relies on high-end, international customers. We often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease.. General. A significant portion of our table games revenue at our resorts is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. The loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers.. We conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. The casino credit we extend is generally unsecured and due on demand. We will extend casino credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. The collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside.. Macau Operations. Although the law in Macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, our Macau Operations may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. We expect that our Macau Operations will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. To the extent our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect all of our gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results.. Currently, the gaming tax in Macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. However, unlike Nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in Macau does not include deductions for uncollectible gaming debts. As a result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers.. Las Vegas Operations. While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a \"marker,\" are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the United States under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the United States Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the United States of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. We cannot assure that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. Changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results.. Win rates for our gaming operations depend on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control.. The gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. In addition to the element of chance, win rates are also affected by other factors, including players' skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets played, the amount of time played and undiscovered acts of fraud or cheating. Our gross gaming revenues are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the casino winnings of our gaming customers. Since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our gaming customers.. In addition, premium gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter.. 21. Table of Contents. Our new projects may not be successful.. In addition to the construction and regulatory risks associated with our current and future construction projects, we cannot assure you that the level of consumer demand for our casino resorts or for the type of luxury amenities that we will offer will meet our expectations. The operating results of our new projects may be materially different than the operating results of our current integrated resorts due to, among other reasons, differences in consumer and corporate spending and preferences in new geographic areas, increased competition from other markets or other developments that may be beyond our control. In addition, our new projects may be more sensitive to certain risks, including risks associated with downturns in the economy, than the resorts we currently operate. The demands imposed by new developments on our managerial, operational and other resources may impact our operation of our existing resorts. If any of these issues were to occur, it could adversely affect our prospects, financial condition, or results of operations.. We could encounter higher than expected cost increases in the development of our projects.. We are currently constructing Wynn Boston Harbor in Everett, Massachusetts. The total project budget for Wynn Boston Harbor, including gaming license fees, construction costs, capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses and land costs, is estimated to be approximately $2.5 billion. We have begun site preparation and pre-construction activities for the re-development of the land formerly occupied by the Wynn Las Vegas golf course, which we closed in the fourth quarter of 2017. Phase 1 of the project is expected to include a lagoon and additional meeting and convention space. Based on current designs, we estimate the total project budget for Phase 1 to be approximately $500 million and we expect to open Phase 1 in the first half of 2020.. The projected development costs for our projects reflect our best estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. Contingencies that have been set aside by us to cover potential cost overruns or potential delays may be insufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns or delays. If these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, or if we are not able to recover damages for these delays and contingencies, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs and this project may not be completed. Failure to complete this project may negatively affect our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to pay our debt.. Construction projects will be subject to development and construction risks, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Major construction projects of the scope and scale of Wynn Boston Harbor and the redevelopment of the Wynn Las Vegas golf course land entail significant risks, including:. • unanticipated cost increases;. • shortages of, and price increases in, materials or skilled labor;. • changes to plans and specifications;. • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities;. • changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, real estate development or construction projects;. • unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems;. • labor disputes or work stoppages;. • disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors;. • personal injuries to workers and other persons;. • environment, health and safety issues, including site accidents;. • delays or interference from severe weather or natural disasters;. • geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and. • unavailability of construction equipment.. Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of our projects.. We anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of the subcontractor's work and payment for all of that subcontractor's labor and materials. These bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work.. 22. Table of Contents. Our facilities currently under development may not commence operations on schedule and construction costs for the projects may exceed budgeted amounts. Failure to complete the projects on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt.. We are currently required to commence gaming operations at Wynn Boston Harbor by June 2020. If we are unable to meet this deadline, the Massachusetts Gaming Commission may suspend or revoke our gaming license.. Pursuant to the Gaming Act, the Company is required to commence gaming operations at Wynn Boston Harbor approximately one year from our projected opening date of mid-2019. If the Company is unable to meet the current deadline and is unable to obtain an extension of the deadline from the MGC, the MGC may suspend or revoke our gaming license and, if we are found by the MGC after a hearing to have acted in bad faith, we will be assessed a fine of up to $50,000,000. Failure to meet the deadline could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from this planned facility.. Any violation of applicable Anti-Money Laundering laws or regulations or the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations.. We deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various jurisdictions' reporting and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Both U.S. and Macau governmental authorities focus heavily on the gaming industry and compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations. From time to time, the Company receives governmental and regulatory inquiries about compliance with such laws and regulations. The Company cooperates with all such inquiries. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations.. Further, we have operations, and a significant portion of our revenue is derived outside of the United States. We are therefore subject to regulations imposed by the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit U.S. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Violations of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect such laws and regulations.. Internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our directors, employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. If we or our directors, employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or Company policies governing our operations, the Company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions, which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. Any such government investigations, prosecutions or other legal proceedings or actions could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations.. Mr. Okada failed to comply with internal training in these matters and failed to return to Wynn Resorts an executed Acknowledgment agreeing to comply with the Wynn Resorts Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. On February 19, 2012, Wynn Resorts filed a complaint in Nevada state court against Mr. Okada and other entities alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty in connection with alleged violations of the FCPA. For information on such complaint, the Freeh Report, which detailed numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of FCPA by Mr. Okada and certain of his affiliates, and the redemption Aruze's shares, see Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 14, \"Commitments and Contingencies.\". Because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities.. We have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. Under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. As an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination.. These laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. The liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the. 23. Table of Contents. harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property.. Contamination has been identified at and in the vicinity of our site in Everett, Massachusetts. The ultimate cost of remediating contaminated sites is difficult to accurately predict and could exceed our current estimates. We may be required to conduct additional investigations and remediation with respect to this site. As a result, we also could incur material costs in excess of our estimates as a result of additional cleanup obligations imposed or contamination identified in the future. However, the environmental laws under which we operate are complicated and often increasingly more stringent, and may be applied retroactively. Although our proposed expenditures related to environmental matters are not currently expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we may be required to make additional expenditures to remain in, or to achieve compliance with, environmental laws in the future.. Compliance with changing laws and regulations may result in additional expenses and compliance risks.. Changing laws and regulations are creating uncertainty for gaming companies. These changing laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, recent issuance and/or lack of guidance. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. In addition, further regulation of casinos, financial institutions and public companies is possible. This could result in continuing uncertainty and higher costs regarding compliance matters. Due to our commitment to maintain high standards of compliance with laws and public disclosure, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in and are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expense. In addition, we are subject to different parties' interpretation of our compliance with these new and changing laws and regulations.. We are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. The rate of taxation could change.. We are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies, both in the U.S. and in Macau. Changes in the laws and regulations related to taxation, including changes in the rates of taxation, the amount of taxes we owe and the time when income is subject to taxation, our ability to claim U.S. foreign tax credits, failure to renew our Macau dividend agreement and Macau income tax exemption and the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could change our overall effective rate of taxation.. Potential violations of law by Mr. Okada and his affiliates could have adverse consequences to the Company.. The Freeh Report detailed numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the FCPA by Mr. Okada and certain of his affiliates. See Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 14, \"Commitments and Contingencies.\" The Company has provided the Freeh Report to applicable regulators and has been cooperating with related investigations of such regulators. The conduct of Mr. Okada and his affiliates and the outcome of any resulting regulatory findings could have adverse consequences to the Company. A finding by regulatory authorities that Mr. Okada violated the FCPA on Company property and/or otherwise involved the Company in criminal or civil violations could result in actions by regulatory authorities against the Company. Relatedly, regulators have and may pursue separate investigations into the Company's compliance with applicable laws in connection with the Okada matter, as discussed in Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 14, \"Commitments and Contingencies.\" While the Company believes that it is in full compliance with all applicable laws, any such investigations could result in actions by regulators against the Company, which could negatively affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Change in valuation of our Redemption Price Promissory Note could have a negative impact on our financial results.. We record the Redemption Note at fair value in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the fair value of the Redemption Note was $1.88 billion and $1.82 billion, respectively. In determining this fair value, we estimated the Redemption Note's present value using discounted cash flows with a probability-weighted expected return for redemption assumptions and a discount rate, which included time value and non-performance risk adjustments commensurate with the risk of the Redemption Note.. Considerations for the redemption assumptions included the stated maturity of the Redemption Note, uncertainty of the related cash flows as well as potential effects of the following: uncertainties surrounding the potential outcome and timing of pending litigation with the Okada Parties (see Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 14, \"Commitments and Contingencies\"); the outcome of on-going investigations of Aruze by the United States Attorney's Office, the U.S. Department of Justice and the Nevada Gaming Control Board; and other potential legal and regulatory actions. In. 24. Table of Contents. addition, in the furtherance of various future business objectives, we considered our ability, at our sole option, to prepay the Redemption Note at any time in accordance with its terms without penalty. Accordingly, we reasonably determined that the estimated life of the Redemption Note could be less than the contractual life of the Redemption Note.. In determination of the appropriate discount rate to be used in the estimated present value, the Redemption Note's subordinated position and credit risk relative to all other debt in our capital structure and credit ratings associated with our traded debt were considered. Observable inputs for the risk free rate were based on Federal Reserve rates for U.S. Treasury securities and the credit risk spread was based on a yield curve index of similarly rated debt.. A change in any of the assumptions discussed above could result in a change in the fair value of this Redemption Note and significantly impact our financial results.. Our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security.. We rely on information technology and other systems (including those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services) to maintain and transmit large volumes of customer financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions, mailing lists and reservations information and other personally identifiable information. We also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. The systems and processes we have implemented to protect customers, employees and company information are subject to the ever-changing risk of compromised security. These risks include cyber and physical security breaches, system failure, computer viruses, and negligent or intentional misuse by customers, company employees, or employees of third-party vendors. The steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful and our insurance coverage for protecting against cybersecurity risks may not be sufficient. Our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.. Our collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations, and privacy law is an area that changes often and varies significantly by jurisdiction. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data.. If a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the Wynn-related trademarks and/or service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed.. Our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of \"Wynn,\" are among our most valuable assets. We have filed applications with the PTO and with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in Macau, China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, certain European countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. These marks include \"WYNN RESORTS,\" \"WYNN DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT,\" \"WYNN LAS VEGAS,\" \"WYNN MACAU,\" \"WYNN PALACE\" and \"ENCORE.\" Some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future.. A common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname \"WYNN.\" As a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired \"secondary meaning.\" To date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the PTO such secondary meaning for the Wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon factors including Mr. Wynn's prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications.. Federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. Third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations.. 25. Table of Contents. Furthermore, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. It is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. The defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. There has been an increase in the international operation of fraudulent online gambling and investment websites attempting to scam and defraud members of the public. We do not offer online gambling or investment accounts. Websites offering these or similar activities and opportunities that use our names or similar names or images in likeness to ours, are doing so without our authorization and possibly unlawfully and with criminal intent. If our efforts to cause these sites to be shut down through civil action and by reporting these sites to the appropriate authorities (where applicable) are unsuccessful or not timely completed, these unauthorized activities may continue and harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. Efforts we take to acquire and protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world, which may include retaining counsel and commencing litigation in various jurisdictions, may be costly and may not be successful in protecting and preserving the status and value of our intellectual property assets.. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, including losses resulting from terrorism, and our insurance costs may increase.. We have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope. However, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. As a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property.. Market forces beyond our control may limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain in the future or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. Certain catastrophic losses may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. As a result, if we suffer such a catastrophic loss, we may not be successful in obtaining future insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. Furthermore, our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements, which would negatively affect our business and financial condition.. Risks Associated with our Macau Operations. Our Macau Operations may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions.. Our Macau Operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. The future success of our Macau Operations will depend on political and economic conditions in Macau and mainland China. For example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in Macau, China or the surrounding region could significantly harm our business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions, laws or regulations that might impede our Macau Operations or our ability to repatriate funds.. Revenues from our Macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the Macau government exercises its redemption right.. Our concession agreement with the Macau government expires in June 2022. Unless our concession is extended, in June 2022, all of our gaming operations and related equipment in Macau will be automatically transferred to the Macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. The Macau government has publicly commented that it is studying the process by which concessions and subconcessions may be renewed. Effective June 2017, the Macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year's prior notice. In the event the Macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied by the remaining years under the concession. We may not be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all and, if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid to us may not be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. The redemption of or failure to extend our concession would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 26. Table of Contents. We compete for limited labor resources in Macau and Macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor.. The success of our operations in Macau will be affected by our success in hiring and retaining employees. We compete with a large number of casino resorts in Macau for a limited number of qualified employees. In addition, the Macau government requires that we only hire Macau residents as dealers in our casinos. Competition for these individuals in Macau has increased and will continue to increase as other competitors expand their operations. We have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resorts and certain Macau government policies affect our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. Despite our coordination with the Macau labor and immigration authorities to assure that our labor needs are satisfied, we may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our operations or obtain required work permits for those employees.  If we are unable to obtain, attract, retain and train skilled employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing and planned casino and resort properties in Macau could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The smoking control legislation in Macau could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In 2014, the Macau government approved additional smoking control legislation, which prohibited smoking in casinos starting on October 6, 2014. The legislation, however, permits casinos to maintain certain limited smoking areas open to VIP patrons if such areas are within restricted access areas, comply with certain square footage ratios based on overall gaming area square footage and comply with the conditions set out in the Dispatch of the Chief Executive, dated November 1, 2012, as amended by the Dispatch of the Chief Executive, dated June 3, 2014. Prior public announcements by the Macau government indicated that the Macau government intended to pursue a full smoking ban within all Macau casinos, however, a new tobacco control law went into effect on January 1, 2018 requiring casinos to prohibit smoking in the currently permissible areas by December 31, 2018, and construct smoking lounges in accordance with certain stringent technical standards still to be determined. The existing smoking legislation, and any smoking legislation intended to fully ban all smoking in casinos, may deter potential gaming customers who are smokers from frequenting casinos in Macau and disrupt the number of patrons visiting or the amount of time visiting patrons spend at our property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand of visitors to Macau.. Because of additional casino projects that are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services, which provide transportation between Macau, Hong Kong, and mainland China may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation to Macau. If transportation facilities to and from Macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting Macau, the desirability of Macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of our Macau Operations, could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, construction of current and future casino and infrastructure projects, adjacent to our properties could impede access to our properties during construction and development. This may negatively impact the results of our Macau Operations.. Extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on our Macau Operations.. Macau's subtropical climate and location on the South China Sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. Unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of our resorts and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to Macau.. If our Macau Operations fail to comply with the concession agreement, the Macau government can terminate our concession without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. The Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable Macau laws. The concession agreement expressly provides that the government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement of our Macau Operations if it:. • conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose;. • suspends gaming operations in Macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification;. • defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts;. • does not comply with government inspections or supervision;. • systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system;. 27. Table of Contents. • fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government;. • is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent;. • engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or. • repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws.. If the government of Macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, our Macau Operations will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under Macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to our gaming operations will be transferred to the government without compensation. The loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in Macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Certain Nevada gaming laws apply to our Macau Operations' gaming activities and associations.. Certain Nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the State of Nevada. With respect to our Macau Operations, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in Nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in Macau conducted by our Macau-related subsidiaries. We and our licensed Nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the NGC if our Macau-related subsidiaries:. • knowingly violate any Macau laws relating to their Macau gaming operations;. • fail to conduct our Macau Operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations;. • engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary to Nevada gaming policies;. • engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the State of Nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or. • employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling.. Such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed Nevada subsidiaries, including Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, and the imposition of substantial fines.. In addition, if the Nevada Gaming Control Board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our Macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the Nevada Gaming Control Board can require us and our licensed Nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the NGC for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. If the NGC finds that the activity or association in Macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our Macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. Consequently, should the NGC find that our Macau-related subsidiary's gaming activities or associations in Macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in Macau, or be required to divest their investment in Macau, possibly on unfavorable terms.. We depend upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. If we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable gaming promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected.. We may lose the clientele of our gaming promoters, who generate a significant portion of our gaming revenue. There is intense competition among casino operators in Macau for services provided by gaming promoters, which has intensified as additional casinos open in Macau. If we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable gaming promoters, or lose a significant number of our gaming promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with VIP customers. In addition, if our gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our VIP customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered.. 28. Table of Contents. The financial resources of our gaming promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business in Macau which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our gaming promoters may experience difficulty in attracting patrons.. Economic and political factors in the region may cause our gaming promoters to experience difficulties in their Macau operations, including intensified competition in attracting patrons to come to Macau. Further, gaming promoters may face a decrease in liquidity, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons, and difficulties in collecting credit they extended previously. The inability to attract sufficient patrons, grant credit and collect amounts due in a timely manner may negatively affect our gaming promoters' operations, causing gaming promoters to wind up or liquidate their operations or resulting in some of our gaming promoters leaving Macau. Current and any future difficulties could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Increased competition for the services of gaming promoters may require us to pay increased commission rates to gaming promoters.. Certain gaming promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. This leverage could result in gaming promoters negotiating changes to our operational agreements, including higher commissions, or the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of certain relationships with gaming promoters. If we need to increase our commission rates or otherwise change our practices with respect to gaming promoters due to competitive forces, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Failure by the gaming promoters with whom we work to comply with Macau gaming laws and high standards of probity and integrity might affect our reputation and ability to comply with the requirements of our concession, Macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses.. The reputations and probity of the gaming promoters with whom we work are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession, Macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. We conduct periodic reviews of the probity and compliance programs of our gaming promoters. However, we are not able to control our gaming promoters' compliance with these high standards of probity and integrity, and our gaming promoters may violate provisions in their contracts with us designed to ensure such compliance. In addition, if we enter into a new business relationship with a gaming promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. If our gaming promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. Furthermore, if any of our gaming promoters violate the Macau gaming laws while on our premises, the Macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the gaming promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed.. Unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase our Macau Operations' obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in Macau.. The currency delineated in our Macau Operations' concession agreement with the government of Macau is the Macau pataca. The Macau pataca is linked to the Hong Kong dollar, and the two are often used interchangeably in Macau. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. However, the exchange linkages of the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca, and the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to changes in Chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments.. If the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca are no longer linked to the U.S. dollar, the exchange rate for these currencies may severely fluctuate. The current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies may also change.. Because many of our Macau Operations' payment and expenditure obligations are in Macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable Macau pataca or Hong Kong dollar rate changes, our Macau Operations' obligations, as denominated in U.S. dollars, would increase. In addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that we operate in Macau will be in Hong Kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar. Also, if any of our Macau-related entities incur U.S. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Macau pataca or the Hong Kong dollar, in relation to the U.S. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service our debt.. 29. Table of Contents. Currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact our Macau Operations.. Currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of our Macau Operations. For example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of China. Restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from China to Macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macau and negatively impact our Macau Operations.. Our Macau subsidiaries' indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets.. Subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our Macau subsidiaries' debt is secured by liens on substantially all of their assets. In the event of a default by such subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if such subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of such secured debt would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our Macau subsidiaries' unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets.. Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of Wynn Macau, Limited.. Wynn Macau, Limited, an indirect majority owned subsidiary of Wynn Resorts and the developer, owner and operator of Wynn Macau and Wynn Palace, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited in October 2009. As of December 31, 2017, Wynn Resorts owns approximately 72% of Wynn Macau, Limited's ordinary shares of common stock. As a result of Wynn Macau, Limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of Wynn Macau, Limited may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of Wynn Macau, Limited. Decisions that could have different implications for Wynn Resorts and Wynn Macau, Limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with Wynn Macau, Limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest.. The Macau government has established a maximum number of gaming tables that can be operated in Macau and has limited the number of new gaming tables at new gaming areas in Macau.. In connection with the opening of Wynn Palace, the DICJ authorized 100 new table games for operation at Wynn Palace, with 25 additional table games authorized for operation on January 1, 2017, and a further 25 new table games for operation on January 1, 2018, for a total of 150 new table games in the aggregate. In addition, we have and will continue to transfer table games between Wynn Macau and Wynn Palace, subject to the aggregate cap. As of February 15, 2018, we had a total of 316 table games at Wynn Macau and 323 at Wynn Palace. The mix of table games in operation at Wynn Macau and Wynn Palace changes from time to time as a result of marketing and operating strategies in response to changing market demand and industry competition. Failure to shift the mix of our table games in anticipation of market demands and industry trends may negatively impact our operating results.. Risks Related to Share Ownership and Stockholder Matters. Our largest stockholders are able to exert significant influence over our operations and future direction.. As of December 31, 2017, Mr. Wynn and Elaine P. Wynn owned 12,131,707 shares and 9,539,077 shares, respectively, or in the aggregate approximately 21.1%, of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Wynn and Elaine P. Wynn, to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring our stockholders' approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions.. Under the Stockholders Agreement, Mr. Wynn and Elaine P. Wynn have agreed to vote the shares of Wynn Resorts' common stock held by them that are subject to the terms of the Stockholders Agreement in a manner so as to elect to our Board of Directors each of the nominees contained on each and every slate of directors endorsed by Mr. Wynn. As a result of this voting arrangement, Mr. Wynn, as a practical matter, exercises significant influence over the slate of directors to be elected to Wynn Resorts' Board of Directors. In addition, with stated exceptions, the Stockholders Agreement requires the written consent of the other party prior to any party selling any shares of Wynn Resorts' common stock that it owns.. In June 2012, in connection with the pending litigation between the Company and Aruze, Elaine P. Wynn submitted a cross claim against Mr. Wynn and Mr. Okada seeking to void the Stockholders Agreement. The cross claim, if successful, could increase the possibility of a change in control under the Wynn Las Vegas, LLC debt documents. On February 12, 2018, counsel for Mr. Wynn advised the court hearing this matter that Mr. Wynn now agrees that the Stockholders Agreement no longer binds either Mr. Wynn or Elaine P. Wynn. There can be no assurance that the court will concur with the position now taken by. 30. Table of Contents. Mr. Wynn, or that the Stockholders Agreement will in fact be deemed to no longer bind the parties thereto. For additional information on the cross claim, see Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 14, \"Commitments and Contingencies.\". In November 2006, the Board of Directors of Wynn Resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of Wynn Resorts' common stock by either Mr. Wynn or Aruze from Nevada's acquisition of controlling interest statutes. In light of the determination by the Board of Directors on February 18, 2012 that each of the Okada Parties is an \"Unsuitable Person\" under the Company's articles of incorporation and the redemption and cancellation of Aruze's shares of Company common stock, our Fifth Amended and Restated Bylaws amended these provisions to delete the reference to Aruze and its affiliates. The Nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain Nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. These statutes define a \"controlling interest\" as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. As a result of these bylaw provisions, Mr. Wynn or his affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of Wynn Resorts permitting him or them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the Company in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the Company's stockholders granting voting rights in the control shares acquired.. Our stock price may be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as general United States, China, and world economic and financial conditions, our own quarterly variations in operating results, increased competition, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, changes in applicable laws or regulations, and changes affecting the travel industry, and other events impacting our business. The stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.. Risks Related to our Indebtedness. We are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing.. We have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. As of December 31, 2017, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $9.63 billion, which includes a portion of the funds we expect to need for the development and construction of our current projects. We may, however, incur additional indebtedness in connection with the construction of these projects. See Item 1 - Business \"Construction and Development Opportunities.\" In addition, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met, including conditions under our Wynn Macau Credit Facilities, our Wynn America Credit Facilities and our Wynn Las Vegas, LLC indentures in connection with other future potential development plans. On February 18, 2012, we issued a Redemption Note with a principal amount of approximately $1.94 billion in redemption of all of the shares of Wynn Resorts common stock held by Aruze. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of the Redemption Note was $1.88 billion. For additional information on the redemption and the Redemption Note, see Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 14, \"Commitments and Contingencies.\". Our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example:. • failure to meet our payment obligations or other obligations could result in acceleration of our indebtedness, foreclosure upon our assets that serve as collateral or bankruptcy and trigger cross defaults under other agreements;. • servicing our indebtedness requires a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of our Las Vegas and Macau Operations and reduces the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital and other cash requirements or pay for other capital expenditures;. • the Okada Parties have challenged the redemption of Aruze's shares and we are currently involved in litigation with those parties as well as related stockholder derivative litigation. The outcome of these various proceedings cannot be predicted. Any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties including current or former investors or regulators. Any. 31. Table of Contents. adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. See Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 14, \"Commitments and Contingencies\";. • we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed; and. • rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase.. Under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, subject to certain limitations, we are permitted to incur indebtedness. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated.. The agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions.. Some of our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization and a minimum earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. For more information on financial covenants we are subject to under our debt facilities, see Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 7, \"Long-Term Debt.\" Future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities.. The agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. These restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to:. • pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity;. • incur additional debt;. • make investments;. • create liens on assets to secure debt;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • issue stock of, or member's interests in, subsidiaries;. • enter into sale-leaseback transactions;. • engage in other businesses;. • merge or consolidate with another company;. • undergo a change of control;. • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets;. • issue disqualified stock;. • create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and. • designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries.. Our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events outside of our control. As a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. If our properties' operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants, causing a default under our agreements, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders or holders of our debt taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets or cause all outstanding amounts to be due and payable immediately."
