[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. If we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited.. We are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. One set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the declines in installations and printed pages, fewer devices per location and an increase in electronic documentation. A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. Our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models. These market and competitive trends make it difficult to reverse the current declines in revenue over the past several years. A third set of challenges relates to our continued efforts to reduce costs and increase productivity in light of declining revenues. In addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address these challenges given the markets in which we compete, as well as, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate. If we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business.. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by conditions abroad, including local economic and political environments, fluctuating foreign currencies and shifting regulatory schemes.. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from operations, and we manufacture or acquire many of our products and/or their components, outside the United States. Our future revenues, costs and results of operations could be significantly affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates - particularly the Japanese yen, the euro and the British pound - as well as by a number of other factors, including changes in local economic and political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, local tax regulations and other related legal matters. We use currency derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency denominated assets, liabilities and anticipated transactions. This practice is intended to mitigate or reduce volatility in the results of our foreign operations, but does not completely eliminate it. We do not hedge the translation effect of international revenues and expenses that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. If our future revenues, costs and results of operations are significantly affected by economic or political conditions abroad and we are unable to effectively hedge these risks, they could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Xerox 2017 Annual Report. 8. We operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results.. We operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. We operate in approximately 160 countries and generate substantial revenues and profits in foreign jurisdictions. The international tax environment continues to change as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. The recommendations of the BEPS Project led by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) are involved in much of the coordinated activity, although the timing and methods of implementation vary.  Additionally, the U.S. government recently enacted comprehensive tax reform in December of 2017 through the passage and signing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax system. The exact ramifications of the legislation is subject to interpretation and could have a material impact on our financial position and/or results of operations.. Although our 2017 results of operations reflect our best estimate of the impact of the new tax law, future regulatory direction associated with the new tax law as well as new legislative developments could adversely affect our future effective tax rate and results.. If we fail to successfully develop new products, technologies and service offerings and protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to retain current customers and gain new customers and our revenues would decline.. The process of developing new products and solutions is inherently complex and uncertain. It requires accurate anticipation of customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends. We must work with our supply partners and commit resources before knowing whether these initiatives will result in products that are commercially successful and generate the revenues required to provide desired returns. In developing these new technologies and products, we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and products used in our operations. It is possible that our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, allowing others to use our intellectual property to our competitive detriment. Also, the laws of certain countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, some of our products rely on technologies developed by third parties. We may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. If we fail to accurately anticipate and meet our customers' needs through the development of new products, technologies and service offerings or if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we could lose market share and customers to our competitors and that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our government contracts are subject to termination rights, audits and investigations, which, if exercised, could negatively impact our reputation and reduce our ability to compete for new contracts.. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from contracts with U.S. federal, state and local governments and their agencies, as well as international governments and their agencies. Government entities typically finance projects through appropriated funds. While these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects, government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding and/or at their convenience. Changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits, shortfalls or uncertainties, government spending reductions (e.g., Congressional sequestration of funds under the Budget Control Act of 2011) or other debt or funding constraints, could result in lower governmental sales and in our projects being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether, which also could limit our recovery of incurred costs, reimbursable expenses and profits on work completed prior to the termination.. Additionally, government agencies routinely audit government contracts. If the government finds that we inappropriately charged costs to a contract, the costs will be non-reimbursable or, to the extent reimbursed, refunded to the government. If the government discovers improper or illegal activities or contractual non-compliance in the course of audits or investigations, we may be subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government. Any resulting penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the negative publicity that arises from findings in such audits or, investigations could have an adverse effect on our reputation and reduce our ability to compete for new contracts and could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Xerox 2017 Annual Report. 9. We face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We operate in an environment of significant competition, driven by rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, and demands of customers to become more efficient. Our competitors include large international companies some of which have significant financial resources and compete with us globally to provide document processing products and services in each of the markets we serve. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, distribution and customer service and support. Our future success is largely dependent upon our ability to compete in the markets we currently serve, to promptly and effectively react to changing technologies and customer expectations and to expand into additional market segments. To remain competitive, we must develop services, applications and new products; periodically enhance our existing offerings; remain cost efficient; and attract and retain key personnel and management. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and important customers to our competitors and such loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our profitability is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services and to improve our cost structure.. Our success depends on our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services that will provide a reasonable return to our shareholders. Depending on competitive market factors, future prices we obtain for our products and services may decline from current levels. In addition, pricing actions to offset the effect of currency devaluations may not prove sufficient to offset further devaluations or may not hold in the face of customer resistance and/or competition. If we are unable to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We continually review our operations with a view towards reducing our cost structure, including reducing our employee base, exiting certain businesses, improving process and system efficiencies and outsourcing some internal functions. We engage in restructuring actions to reduce our cost structure. If we are unable to continue to maintain our cost base at or below the current level and maintain process and systems changes resulting from prior restructuring actions, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our ability to sustain and improve profit margins is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to continue to improve the cost efficiency of our operations through such programs as the Strategic Transformation program, the level of pricing pressures on our products and services, the proportion of high-end as opposed to low-end equipment sales (product mix), the trend in our post-sale revenue growth and our ability to successfully complete information technology initiatives. If any of these factors adversely materialize or if we are unable to achieve and maintain productivity improvements through design efficiency, supplier and manufacturing cost improvements and information technology initiatives, our ability to offset labor cost inflation, potential materials cost increases and competitive price pressures would be impaired, all of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to laws of the United States and foreign jurisdictions relating to individually identifiable information, and failure to comply with those laws could subject us to legal actions and negatively impact our operations.. We receive, process, transmit and store information relating to identifiable individuals, both in our role as a technology provider and as an employer. As a result, we are subject to numerous United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect individually identifiable information. These laws have been subject to frequent changes, and new legislation in this area may be enacted at any time. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation will come into force in the European Union in May 2018. Changes to existing laws, introduction of new laws in this area, or failure to comply with existing laws that are applicable to us may subject us to, among other things, additional costs or changes to our business practices, liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to obtain and process information and allegations by our customers and clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow.. We are subject to breaches of our security systems, cyber attacks and service interruptions which could expose us to liability, litigation, and regulatory action and damage our reputation.. We have implemented security systems with the intent of maintaining and protecting our own, and our customers', clients' and suppliers' confidential information, including information related to identifiable individuals, against unauthorized access or disclosure.  Despite such efforts, we may be subject to breaches of our security systems resulting in unauthorized access to our facilities or information systems and the information we are trying to protect.. Xerox 2017 Annual Report. 10. Moreover, the risk of such attacks includes attempted breeches not only of our systems, but also those of our customers, clients and suppliers. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access are constantly changing, are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and often are not recognized until after an exploitation of information has occurred. Therefore, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement sufficient preventative measures. Unauthorized access to our facilities or information systems, or those of our suppliers, or accidental loss or disclosure of proprietary or confidential information about us, our clients or our customers could result in, among other things, a total shutdown of our systems that would disrupt our ability to conduct business or pay vendors and employees. In the event of such actions, we could be exposed to unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. While from time to time attempts are made to access our systems, these attempts have not resulted in any material release of information, degradation or disruption to our systems. We may also find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect this information and our infrastructure.. We have outsourced a significant portion of our manufacturing operations and increasingly rely on third-party manufacturers, subcontractors and suppliers.. We have outsourced a significant portion of our manufacturing operations to third parties. We face the risk that those manufacturers may not be able to develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products, quickly respond to changes in customer demand, and obtain supplies and materials necessary for the manufacturing process. In addition, they may experience labor shortages and/or disruptions, manufacturing costs could be higher than planned and the reliability of our products could decline. If any of these risks were to be realized, and similar third-party manufacturing relationships could not be established, we could experience interruptions in supply or increases in costs that might result in our being unable to meet customer demand for our products, damage our relationships with our customers and reduce our market share, all of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, in our services business we may partner with other parties, including software and hardware vendors, to provide the complex solutions required by our customers. Therefore, our ability to deliver the solutions and provide the services required by our customers is dependent on our and our partners' ability to meet our customers' requirements and schedules. If we or our partners fail to deliver services or products as required and on time, our ability to complete the contract may be adversely affected, which may have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits.. We need to successfully manage changes in the printing environment and market because our operating results may be negatively impacted by lower equipment placements and usage trends.. The printing market and environment is changing as a result of new technologies, shifts in customer preferences in office printing and the expansion of new printing markets. Examples include mobile printing, color printing, packaging, print on objects, continuous feed inkjet printing and the expansion of the market for entry products (A4 printers) and high-end products.  A significant part of our strategy and ultimate success in this changing market is our ability to develop and market technology that produces products and services that meet these changes. Our future success in executing on this strategy depends on our ability to make the investments and commit the necessary resources in this highly competitive market. If we are unable to develop and market advanced and competitive technologies, it may negatively impact expansion of our worldwide equipment placements, as well as sales of services and supplies occurring after the initial equipment placement (post sale revenue) in the key growth markets of digital printing, color and multifunction systems. We expect that revenue growth can be improved through our document management and consulting services in the areas of personalized and product life cycle communications, enterprise managed print services and document content and imaging. The ability to achieve growth in our equipment placements is subject to the successful implementation of our initiatives to provide advanced systems, industry-oriented global solutions and services for major customers, improve direct and indirect sales efficiency and expand and successfully manage our indirect distribution channels in the face of global competition and pricing pressures. Our ability to preserve our post sale revenue streams is largely dependent on our ability to increase the volume of pages printed, the mix and price of color pages, equipment utilization and color adoption, as well as our ability to retain a high level of supplies sales in unbundled contracts. There will be a lag between the increase in equipment placements and an increase in post-sale revenues. In addition, with respect to our indirect distribution channels, many of our partners sell competing products, further increasing the need to successfully manage our relationships with our partners to ensure they meet our specific sale and distribution requirements for equipment placements and post sale revenues. If we are unable to maintain a consistent level of revenue, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Xerox 2017 Annual Report. 11. Our ability to fund our customer financing activities at economically competitive levels depends on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets.. The long-term viability and profitability of our customer financing activities is dependent, in part, on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets. This ability and cost, in turn, is dependent on our credit rating, which is currently investment grade, and is subject to credit market volatility. We primarily fund our customer financing activity through a combination of cash generated from operations, cash on hand, capital market offerings, sales and securitizations of finance receivables and commercial paper borrowings. Our ability to continue to offer customer financing and be successful in the placement of equipment with customers is largely dependent on our ability to obtain funding at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to continue to offer customer financing, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our significant debt could adversely affect our financial health and pose challenges for conducting our business.. Our ability to provide customer financing is a significant competitive advantage.  We have and will continue to have a significant amount of debt and other obligations, the majority of which support our customer financing activities. Our substantial debt and other obligations could have important consequences. For example, it could (i) increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; (iii) increase our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations because a portion of our debt has variable interest rates; (iv) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to service debt and other obligations thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows from operations for other purposes; (v) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; (vi) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and (vii) become due and payable upon a change in control. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, these related risks could increase.. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by employee benefit-related funding requirements.. We sponsor several defined benefit pension and retiree-health benefit plans throughout the world. We are required to make contributions to these plans to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by laws governing these employee benefit plans. Although most of our major defined benefit plans have been amended to freeze current benefits and eliminate benefit accruals for future service, the projected benefit obligations under these benefit plans is measured annually and at December 31, 2017 exceeded the value of the assets of those plans by approximately $1.4 billion. The current underfunded status of these plans is a significant factor in determining the ongoing future contributions we will be required to make to these plans. Accordingly, we expect to have additional funding requirements in future years and we may make additional, voluntary contributions to the plans. Depending on our cash position at the time, any such funding or contributions to our defined benefit plans could impact our operating flexibility and financial position, including adversely affecting our cash flow for the quarter in which such funding or contributions are made. Weak economic conditions and related under-performance of asset markets could also lead to increases in our funding requirements.. We need to maintain adequate liquidity in order to meet our operating cash flow requirements, repay maturing debt and meet other financial obligations, such as payment of dividends to the extent declared by our Board of Directors. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our various borrowing agreements, it may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. Our liquidity is a function of our ability to successfully generate cash flows from a combination of efficient operations and continuing operating improvements, access to capital markets and funding from third parties. We believe our liquidity (including operating and other cash flows that we expect to generate) will be sufficient to meet operating requirements as they occur; however, our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity going forward subject to the general liquidity of and on-going changes in the credit markets as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other market factors that are beyond our control.. Our $1.8 billion credit facility (the \"Credit Facility\") contains financial maintenance covenants, including maximum leverage (debt for borrowed money divided by consolidated EBITDA, as defined) and a minimum interest coverage ratio (consolidated EBITDA divided by consolidated interest expense, as defined). At December 31, 2017, we were in full compliance with the covenants and other provisions of the Credit Facility. Failure to comply with material provisions or covenants in the Credit Facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. Xerox 2017 Annual Report. 12. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by legal and regulatory matters.. We have various contingent liabilities that are not reflected on our balance sheet, including those arising as a result of being involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings concerning: securities law; governmental entity contracting, servicing and procurement laws; intellectual property law; environmental law; employment law; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA); and other laws and regulations, as discussed in the \"Contingencies\" note in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Should developments in any of these matters cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual or materially increase an existing accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts above any existing accruals, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs.. Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of commercial and trade regulations around the world. Recent years have seen an increase in the development and enforcement of laws regarding trade compliance and anti-corruption, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws from other countries. Our numerous foreign subsidiaries, affiliates and joint venture partners are governed by laws, rules and business practices that differ from those of the U.S. The activities of these entities may not comply with U.S. laws or business practices or our Code of Business Conduct. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations or financial condition. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.. Our operations and our products are subject to environmental regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business and sell our products. Some of our manufacturing operations use, and some of our products contain, substances that are regulated in various jurisdictions. For example, various countries and jurisdictions have adopted, or are expected to adopt, restrictions on the types and amounts of chemicals that may be present in electronic equipment or other items that we use or sell. Recently, a number of studies have been published by third parties regarding chemicals utilized in our industry, as well as potential health/safety impacts of machine emissions.  Additional studies are planned, and depending on the results of such studies, regulatory initiatives could follow.  We are monitoring these developments. If we do not comply with applicable rules and regulations in connection with the use of such substances and the sale of products containing such substances, then we could be subject to liability and could be prohibited from selling our products in their existing forms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, various countries and jurisdictions have adopted or are expected to adopt, programs that make producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, responsible for certain labeling, collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of these recovered products. If we are unable to collect, recycle, treat and dispose of our products in a cost-effective manner and in accordance with applicable requirements, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Other potentially relevant initiatives throughout the world include proposals for more extensive chemical registration requirements and/or possible bans on the use of certain chemicals, various efforts to limit energy use in products and other environmentally related-programs impacting products and operations, such as those associated with climate change accords, agreements and regulations. For example, the European Union's Energy-Related Products Directive (ERP) has led to the adoption of \"implementing measures\" or \"voluntary agreements\" that require certain classes of products to achieve certain design and/or performance standards, in connection with energy use and potentially other environmental parameters and impacts. A number of our products are already required to comply with ERP requirements and further regulations are being developed by the EU authorities. Another example is the European Union \"REACH\" Regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), a broad initiative that requires parties throughout the supply chain to register, assess and disclose information regarding many chemicals in their products. Depending on the types, applications, forms and uses of chemical substances in various products, REACH and similar regulatory programs in other jurisdictions could lead to restrictions and/or bans on certain chemical usage. In the United States, the Toxics Substances Control Act (\"TSCA\") is undergoing a major overhaul with similar potential for regulatory challenges. Xerox continues its efforts toward monitoring and evaluating the applicability of these and numerous other regulatory initiatives in an effort to develop compliance strategies. As these and similar initiatives and programs become regulatory requirements throughout the world and/or are adopted as public or private procurement requirements, we must comply or potentially face market access limitations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Similarly, environmentally driven procurement requirements voluntarily adopted by customers in the. Xerox 2017 Annual Report. 13. marketplace (e.g., U.S. EPA EnergyStar, EPEAT) are constantly evolving and becoming more stringent, presenting further market access challenges if our products fail to comply. Concern over climate change, including global warming, has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting greenhouse gas emissions. For example, proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on greenhouse gas emissions continue to be considered by policy makers in the countries, states and territories in which we operate. Enacted laws and/or regulatory actions to address concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions could negatively impact our business, including the availability of our products or the cost to obtain or sell those products.. The separation of our Business Process Outsourcing (\"BPO\") business from our Document Technology and Document Outsourcing business into two independent, publicly-traded companies may not yield the expected benefits.. The separation of our BPO business from our Document Technology and Document Outsourcing business into two independent, publicly-traded companies was completed on December 31, 2016.  The Company may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the separation, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. The expected increased focus of management exclusively on the Company's own business and its distinct needs, may not yield expected long-term growth and profitability. In addition, the separation has resulted in the Company becoming a smaller, less diversified enterprise with a narrower market focus, which could make it more vulnerable to changing market conditions and other adverse events. Further, although we have received an opinion from outside counsel as to the tax-free nature of the Separation, there can be no assurance that the United States Internal Revenue Service will not challenge this position or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. The potential negative impact of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our business and reputation could be negatively affected as a result of activist shareholders.. Certain of our shareholders have expressed views with respect to the operation of our business, our business strategy, corporate governance considerations or other matters that may not be fully aligned with our own. Responding to actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees. Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, damage to our reputation and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified directors, personnel and business partners. These actions could also cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility.. Risk Factors Related to the Fujifilm Transactions. Our expectations regarding our business may be impacted by the following risk factors related to the pending Fujifilm Transactions:. The pendency of the Fujifilm Transactions could adversely affect our business.. In connection with the Fujifilm Transactions, some of our suppliers and customers may delay or defer sales and purchasing decisions, which could negatively impact revenues, earnings and cash flows regardless of whether the Fujifilm Transactions are completed. We have agreed in the Fujifilm Transaction Agreements to refrain from taking certain actions with respect to our business and financial affairs during the pendency of the Fujifilm Transactions, which restrictions could be in place for an extended period of time if completion of the Fujifilm Transactions is delayed and could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business before completion of the Fujifilm Transactions or termination of the Fujifilm Transaction Agreements. The process of seeking to accomplish the Fujifilm Transactions could also divert the focus of our management from pursuing other opportunities that could be beneficial to us.. The pursuit of the Fujifilm Transactions and the preparation for the integration of Xerox and Fuji Xerox have placed, and will continue to place, a significant burden on our management and internal resources. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of seeking to close the Fujifilm Transactions and integrate Xerox and Fuji Xerox, which could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our existing business, regardless of whether the Fujifilm Transactions are eventually completed. Our management team will be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our existing businesses, service existing customers, attract new customers and develop new products, services or strategies. One potential consequence of such distractions could be the failure of management to realize other strategic opportunities that could be beneficial to us. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the process leading up to and immediately following Closing, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, then our business could suffer.. Xerox 2017 Annual Report. 14. We may be unable to attract and retain key employees during the pendency of the Fujifilm Transactions.. In connection with the Fujifilm Transactions, current and prospective employees of Xerox may experience uncertainty about their future roles with New Fuji Xerox following the Fujifilm Transactions, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of the Fujifilm Transactions. Key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with New Fuji Xerox following the Fujifilm Transactions. The departure of existing key employees or the failure of potential key employees to accept employment with New Fuji Xerox, despite our recruiting efforts, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results, regardless of whether the Fujifilm Transactions are eventually completed.. The Fujifilm Transactions may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all, and failure to complete the Fujifilm Transactions may result in material adverse consequences to our business and operations.. The Fujifilm Transactions are subject to several closing conditions, including (i) the absence of any law or order issued or enacted by any governmental authority of competent jurisdiction in which any of Xerox, Fuji Xerox or their respective subsidiaries has material operations, which enjoins or otherwise prohibits the consummation of the Fujifilm Transactions; (ii) the approval by our shareholders of (A) the Issuance; (B) the issuance of certain true-up shares to Fujifilm pursuant to the terms set forth in the Subscription Agreement; and (C) the Certificate of Amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation (collectively, the \"Applicable Shareholder Approvals\"), (iii) expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and under any other applicable antitrust, competition, trade regulation or merger control law, (iv) the filing of notices and receipt of applicable national security approvals, including with respect to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, the U.S. Department of Defense's Defense Security Service, the Department of Energy and the U.S. State Department Directorate of Defense Trade Controls pursuant to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations and (v) Xerox's declaration of the Special Dividend. The closing conditions also include the delivery to us of the audited financial statements and interim financial statements of Fuji Xerox for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016, March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 that (x) are GAAP compliant, (y) fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial position of Fuji Xerox and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the interim financial statements of Fuji Xerox and (z) do not deviate, in any material respect, from the unaudited financial statements of Fuji Xerox and its subsidiaries provided to us prior to the date of the Fujifilm Transaction Agreements. If any one of these conditions is not satisfied or waived, the Fujifilm Transactions may not be completed. There is no assurance that the Fujifilm Transactions will be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all.. The parties have not yet obtained all regulatory clearances, consents and approvals required to complete the Fujifilm Transactions. Governmental or regulatory agencies could still seek to block or challenge the Fujifilm Transactions or could impose restrictions they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest as a condition to approving the Fujifilm Transactions. These restrictions could include a requirement to sell or hold separate certain specified businesses to obtain such regulatory approvals. If these approvals are not received, then neither we nor Fujifilm will be obligated to complete the Fujifilm Transactions.. If the Applicable Shareholder Approvals are not obtained or if the Fujifilm Transactions are not completed for any other reason, we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following:. • we and our shareholders would not realize the anticipated benefits of the Fujifilm Transactions, including payment of the Special Dividend to holders of our Common Stock as of the applicable record date and any expected synergies and operating efficiencies from the Fujifilm Transactions;. • the attention of our management may have been diverted to the Fujifilm Transactions instead of on our ongoing business operations and pursuit of other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us;. • resulting negative reactions from our customers, regulators and employees;. • we may be required to pay a termination fee of $183 million (the \"Termination Fee\") if the Fujifilm Transaction Agreements are terminated in the case of certain events described in the Fujifilm Transaction Agreements, including due to an adverse change in our Board of Directors' recommendation to our shareholders to approve the Fujifilm Transactions;. Xerox 2017 Annual Report. 15. • we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed Fujifilm Transactions, for which we will have received little or no benefit if the Fujifilm Transactions are not completed. Many of these fees and costs will be payable by us even if the Fujifilm Transactions are not completed and may relate to activities that we would not have undertaken other than to complete the Fujifilm Transactions;. • resulting negative reactions from the financial markets, including a decline in our stock price (which may reflect a market assumption that the Fujifilm Transactions will be completed); or. • Xerox could be subject to litigation from shareholders related to the Fujifilm Transaction Agreements.. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or the trading price of our Common Stock.. Even if the Fujifilm Transactions close, the integration of Xerox and Fuji Xerox following the Closing will present significant challenges that may result in a decline in the anticipated benefits of the Fujifilm Transactions.. Historically, Xerox and Fuji Xerox have operated as independent companies, and they will continue to do so until the completion of the Fujifilm Transactions.  There can be no assurance that their businesses can be integrated successfully. New Fuji Xerox will be required to devote management attention and resources to integrating its business practices and operations, and prior to the Fujifilm Transactions, management attention and resources will be required to plan for such integration. Specifically, the following issues, among others, must be addressed in integrating the operations of Xerox and Fuji Xerox in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the Fujifilm Transactions:. • the potential inability (i) to successfully integrate the two businesses, including operations, technologies, products, customer services and offerings and corporate functions and/or (ii) to identify and eliminate redundant and underperforming functions and assets, in a manner that permits New Fuji Xerox to achieve the synergies and operating efficiencies expected to result from the Fujifilm Transactions, which could result in the expected benefits of the Fujifilm Transactions not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all;. • consolidating and rationalizing the companies' information technology platforms and administrative infrastructures as well as accounting systems;. • integrating the companies' financial reporting and internal control systems, including compliance by New Fuji Xerox with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission;. • coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities;. • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds, business cultures and management philosophies, while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high-quality products and services;. • maintaining existing agreements with customers, distributors, providers and vendors and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers, distributors, providers and vendors;. • coordinating distribution and marketing efforts;. • lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either or both of the two businesses deciding not to do business with New Fuji Xerox, or deciding to decrease their amount of business in order to reduce their reliance on a single company;. • preserving important relationships of both Xerox and Fuji Xerox and resolving potential conflicts that may arise;. • performance shortfalls at one or both of Xerox and Fuji Xerox as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by completing the Fujifilm Transactions and integrating the two businesses' operations;. • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the Fujifilm Transactions; and. • effecting actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals.. Xerox 2017 Annual Report. 16. Combining the businesses of Xerox and Fuji Xerox may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected, which may adversely affect New Fuji Xerox's results and negatively affect the value of its Common Stock following the Fujifilm Transactions.. Xerox and Fuji Xerox have entered into the Fujifilm Transaction Agreements because each believes that the Fujifilm Transactions will be beneficial to its respective companies and shareholders and that combining the businesses of Xerox and Fuji Xerox will produce benefits and cost savings.  If New Fuji Xerox is not able to successfully combine the businesses of Xerox and Fuji Xerox in an efficient and effective manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Fujifilm Transactions may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of New Fuji Xerox Common Stock may be affected adversely.. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the Fujifilm Transactions and the other transactions contemplated by the Fujifilm Transaction Agreements, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of New Fuji Xerox, which may adversely affect the value of New Fuji Xerox Common Stock following the Fujifilm Transactions.. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized.  Actual growth and cost savings, if achieved, may be lower than what New Fuji Xerox expects and may take longer to achieve than anticipated.  If New Fuji Xerox is not able to adequately address integration challenges, it may be unable to successfully integrate Xerox's and Fuji Xerox's operations or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two companies.. We may not realize the anticipated synergies, net cost reductions and growth opportunities from the Fujifilm Transactions.. The benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of the Fujifilm Transactions will depend, in part, on the ability of New Fuji Xerox to realize anticipated growth opportunities, net cost reductions and synergies.  Our success in realizing these growth opportunities, net cost reductions and synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our historical business and operations and the historical business and operations of Fuji Xerox.  Even if we are able to integrate the businesses and operations of Xerox and Fuji Xerox successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities, net cost reductions and synergies that we currently expect from this integration within the anticipated time frame or at all.  For example, we may be unable to eliminate duplicative costs.  Moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of our business and Fuji Xerox's business.  While we anticipate that certain expenses will be incurred, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately and may exceed current estimates.  Accordingly, the benefits from the Transactions may be offset by costs or delays incurred in integrating the businesses.. In connection with the Fujifilm Transactions, we are acquiring entities that may have potential liabilities, including entities that have previously undergone a financial audit.. In connection with the Fujifilm Transactions, we are acquiring entities that may have potential liabilities relating to their businesses, including entities for which audited financial statements have not yet been provided.  In addition, as previously disclosed, Fujifilm previously formed an independent investigation committee to conduct a review of the accounting practices at Fuji Xerox's New Zealand subsidiary and at other subsidiaries that identified aggregate adjustments to Fuji Xerox's financial statements of approximately JPY 40 billion, which primarily related to misstatements at Fuji Xerox's New Zealand and Australian subsidiaries as well as certain other adjustments.  While Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox continue to review Fujifilm's oversight and governance of Fuji Xerox as well as Fuji Xerox's oversight and governance over its businesses in light of the findings of the independent investigation committee, there may be governmental investigations and additional consequences related thereto. To the extent we have not identified such liabilities or miscalculated their potential financial impact, these liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Following the completion of the Fujifilm Transactions, New Fuji Xerox will be controlled by Fujifilm. The interests of Fujifilm may differ from the interests of other shareholders.. Immediately following Closing, Fujifilm is expected to own approximately 50.1 percent of the Fully Diluted Capital Stock of New Fuji Xerox and Xerox shareholders are expected to own approximately 49.9 percent.. Pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, the Board of Directors of New Fuji Xerox will have twelve directors, which will initially be composed of seven individuals designated by Fujifilm and five individuals from among the members of the Board of Directors of Xerox immediately prior to Closing designated by Xerox in consultation with and subject to reasonable approved by Fujifilm. As a result of Fujifilm's ownership of a majority of the voting power of Common Stock, New Fuji Xerox will be a \"controlled company\" as defined in NYSE listing rules and will, therefore, not be subject to NYSE requirements that would otherwise require New Fuji Xerox to have (i) a majority of independent. Xerox 2017 Annual Report. 17. directors, (ii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors, (iii) a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors, and (iv) director nominees selected, or recommended to the Board of Directors by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors.. Fujifilm may have different interests than other holders of Common Stock and may make decisions adverse to your interests. Subject to the terms and restrictions set forth in the Shareholders Agreement, Fujifilm would have control over matters submitted to the shareholders that require the affirmative vote of a majority or more of the outstanding shares of New Fuji Xerox.  This concentrated control could discourage a potential investor from seeking to acquire Common Stock and, as a result, might harm the market price of that Common Stock. Given Fujifilm's ownership of the majority of the Common Stock of New Fuji Xerox and the interactions that will take place between New Fuji Xerox and Fujifilm, the success of New Fuji Xerox will depend in part on the reputation and success of Fujifilm.. The Fujifilm Transaction Agreements contain provisions that may discourage other companies from trying to acquire us.. The Fujifilm Transaction Agreements contain provisions that may discourage third parties from submitting business combination proposals to us that might result in greater value to our shareholders than the Fujifilm Transactions. The Fujifilm Transaction Agreements generally prohibit us from soliciting, initiating and facilitating or encouraging any inquiries regarding, or the making of any proposal or offer that constitutes, or that could reasonably be expected to lead to, an alternative acquisition proposal from any third party. This provision prevents us from seeking offers from other possible acquirers that may be superior to the Fujifilm Transactions. In addition, if the Fujifilm Transaction Agreements are terminated by us or Fujifilm in circumstances that obligate us to pay a Termination Fee, our financial condition may be adversely affected as a result of the payment of the Termination Fee, which might deter third parties from proposing alternative business combination proposals."
