[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this report or in our other SEC filings, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Business Risks. We are subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to a number of general economic factors that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, many of which are largely out of our control. These factors include recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles and changes in their business practices, particularly in market segments and industries, such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers' business levels, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services. Because a portion of our costs are fixed, it may be difficult for us to quickly adjust our cost structure proportionally with fluctuations in volume levels. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad-debt losses. Further, we depend on our suppliers for equipment, parts and services that are critical to our business. A disruption in the availability of these supplies or a material increase in their cost due to adverse economic conditions or financial constraints of our suppliers could adversely impact our business, results of operations and liquidity.. We are subject to business risks and increasing costs associated with the transportation industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to business risks and increasing costs associated with the transportation industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The factors contributing to these risks and costs include weather, excess capacity in the transportation industry, fuel prices, interest rates, license and registration fees, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, letters of credit required to support outstanding claims, and increasing equipment and operational costs, as well as the other factors discussed in this risk factor section. Further, the future availability and support available for our current technology may make it necessary for us to upgrade or change these systems, which may be costly and could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our business will suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Numerous competitive factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include the following:. • We compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes and types, some of which have a lower cost structure, more and/or newer equipment and greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages;. • Some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which limits our ability to maintain or increase prices or maintain or grow our business;. • Our customers may negotiate rates or contracts that minimize or eliminate our ability to offset fuel prices through fuel surcharges;. • Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called \"core carriers\" as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected;. • Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, which may depress prices or result in the loss of some business to competitors;. • The trend towards consolidation in the ground transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size;. • Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments;. • Competition from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and prices; and. • As a union carrier, we may have a competitive disadvantage compared to non-union carriers with lower costs and greater operating flexibility.. 10. If our relationship with our employees and unions were to deteriorate, we may be faced with labor disruptions or stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and place us at a disadvantage relative to non-union competitors.. Each of our operating subsidiaries has employees who are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (\"IBT\"). These employees represent 78% of our workforce at December 31, 2017. Salaries, wages and employee benefits for both union and non-union employees compose over half of our operating costs.. Each of our YRC Freight, New Penn, and Holland subsidiaries employ most of their unionized employees under the terms of a common national master freight agreement with the IBT, as supplemented by additional regional supplements and local agreements, a significant majority of which will expire on March 31, 2019.  Failure to renew or enter into a new collective bargaining agreement could significantly impact our ability to staff our business and, thus, have a material adverse effect on our operations.  The IBT also represents a number of employees at Reddaway and YRC Reimer under more localized agreements, which have wages, benefit contributions and other terms and conditions that better fit the cost structure and operating models of these business units.  Our subsidiaries are regularly subject to grievances, arbitration proceedings and other claims concerning alleged past and current non-compliance with applicable labor law and collective bargaining agreements.. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these matters. These matters, if resolved in a manner unfavorable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Our pension expense and funding obligations could increase significantly and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future funding obligations for our U.S. single-employer defined benefit pension plans qualified with the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") depend upon their funded status, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels and actuarial experience, and any changes in government laws and regulations.. Our subsidiaries began making contributions to most of the multi-employer pension funds (the \"funds\") beginning June 1, 2011 at the rate of 25% of the contribution rate in effect on July 1, 2009. Any fund that did not allow our subsidiaries to begin making contributions at a reduced rate elected to either (i) apply the amount of the contributions toward paying down previously deferred contributions under our Contribution Deferral Agreement, or (ii) have the amount of the contributions placed in escrow until such time when the fund is able to accept re-entry at the reduced rate.. If contributions to the funds do not reach certain goals (including those required not to enter endangered or critical status or those required by a fund's funding improvement or rehabilitation plan), our pension expenses and required cash contributions could further increase upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Decreases in investment returns that are not offset by contributions could also increase our obligations under such plans.. Based on information obtained from public filings and from plan administrators and trustees, we believe our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal from or termination of all of the multi-employer pension plans would be an estimated $9 billion on a pre-tax basis. If we were subject to withdrawal liability with respect to a plan, the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (\"ERISA\"), provides that a withdrawing employer can pay the obligation in a lump sum or over time based upon an annual payment that is the highest contribution rate to the relevant plan multiplied by the average of the three highest consecutive years measured in contribution base units, which, in some cases, could be up to 20 years. Even so, our applicable subsidiaries have no current intention of taking any action that would subject us to payment of material withdrawal obligations; however, we cannot provide any assurance that such obligations will not arise in the future which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Ongoing self-insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels. We currently self-insure for a majority of our claims exposure resulting from workers' compensation, property damage and liability claims, and cargo, supplemented by large deductible purchased insurance. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may have to post additional letters of credit or cash collateral to state workers' compensation authorities or insurers to support our insurance policies, which may adversely affect our liquidity. Although we have significantly reduced our letter of credit expense in recent years, there is no assurance this trend will continue. If we lose. 11. our ability to self-insure, our insurance costs could materially increase, and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage.. Our self-insured retention limits can make our insurance and claims expense higher and/or more volatile.  We accrue for the costs of the uninsured portion of pending claims, based on the nature and severity of individual claims and historical claims development trends. Estimating the number and severity of claims, as well as related judgment or settlement amounts is inherently difficult. This, along with legal expenses, incurred but not reported claims, and other uncertainties can cause unfavorable differences between actual self-insurance costs and our reserve estimates.. In general, our insurance coverage with respect to each of workers' compensation, property damage and liability claims, and cargo claims is subject to policy limits.  Although we believe our aggregate insurance policy limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits. In this case, we would bear the excess expense, in addition to the amount of self-insurance. Our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could find it necessary to raise our self-insured retention or decrease our aggregate coverage limits when our policies are renewed or replaced.. We have significant ongoing capital expenditure requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations.. Our business is capital intensive. Our capital expenditures focus primarily on revenue equipment replacement, land and structures and investments in information technology. Our capital expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $103.3 million and $100.6 million, respectively. These amounts were principally used to fund the purchase of used tractors and trailers, to refurbish engines for our revenue fleet, and capitalized costs for our network facilities and technology infrastructure. We will need to continue to update our fleet periodically. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our capital requirements, we may have to limit our growth, utilize our existing liquidity, or enter into additional financing arrangements, including leasing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment (including tractors and trailers) for longer periods resulting in increased maintenance costs, any of which could reduce our operating income. If our cash from operations and existing financing arrangements are not sufficient to fund our capital expenditure requirements, we may not be able to obtain additional financing at all or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, our credit facilities contain provisions that limit our level of annual capital expenditures.. We operate in an industry subject to extensive government regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business.. The U.S. Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security and various federal, state, local and foreign agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and permits to conduct transportation business. Our drivers are also subject to hours-of-service rules from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (\"FMCSA\"). In the future, we may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations that the FMCSA, Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency or other authorities impose, including regulations relating to engine exhaust emissions, the hours of service that our drivers may provide in any one-time period, security and other matters. Compliance with these regulations could substantially impair productivity and increase our costs.. In December 2010, the FMCSA established the Compliance Safety Accountability (\"CSA\") motor carrier oversight program under which drivers and fleets are evaluated based on certain safety-related standards. Carriers' safety and fitness ratings under CSA include the on-road safety performance of the carriers' drivers. The FMCSA has also implemented changes to the hours of service (\"HOS\") regulations which govern the work hours of commercial drivers and most recently, adopted a rule that requires commercial drivers who currently use paper log books to maintain hours-of-service records with electronic logging devices (\"ELDs\") by December 2017 and commercial drivers who use automatic on-board recording devices (\"AOBRDs\") to record HOS to use ELDs by December 2019. The vast majority of our companies' fleets utilize AOBRDs, and we are currently in the process of updating our fleet to meet the ELD requirement deadline of December 2019. At any given time, there are also other proposals for safety-related standards that are pending legislative or administrative approval or adoption. If additional or more stringent standards are adopted, such may result in a reduction of the pool of qualified drivers available for employment by us. If we experience safety and fitness violations, our fleet could be ranked poorly as compared to our peers, and our safety and fitness scores could be adversely impacted. A reduction in our safety and fitness scores or those of our drivers could also reduce our competitiveness in relation to other companies that have higher scores. Additionally, competition for qualified drivers with favorable safety ratings may increase and thus result in increases in driver-related compensation costs.. Like many trucking companies, we compensate our drivers based primarily on mileage rate and activity-based formulas.  California adopted legislation that sets forth requirements for the payment of a separate hourly wage for \"nonproductive\" time worked by. 12. piece-rate employees, and separate payment for compensable rest and recovery periods to those employees.  Specifically, the new legislation, which became effective January 1, 2016, codified three basic statutory requirements for the payment of employees on a piece-rate basis: (i) employees must be separately compensated for the time during which they take rest and recovery breaks; (ii) employees must be separately compensated for \"other nonproductive time,\" which is defined as \"time under the employer's control, exclusive of rest and recovery periods, that is not directly related to the activity being compensated on a piece-rate basis;\" and (iii) that this \"other nonproduction time\" time must be compensated at an hourly rate no less than the applicable minimum wage. The application of this legislation to the Company and its operations could increase our operating costs, including labor costs and legal exposure.. We are subject to various Environmental Regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liabilities for violations of, existing or future laws and regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business.. Our operations are subject to Environmental Regulations dealing with, among other things, the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable environmental laws or regulations, it could significantly increase our cost of doing business. Under specific environmental laws and regulations, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past or present terminals and at third-party waste disposal sites. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability.. In addition, as climate change initiatives become more prevalent, federal, state and local governments and our customers are beginning to promulgate solutions for these issues. This increased focus on greenhouse gas emission reductions and corporate environmental sustainability may result in new regulations and customer requirements that could negatively affect us. This could cause us to incur additional direct costs or to make changes to our operations in order to comply with any new regulations and customer requirements. We could also lose revenue if our customers divert business from us because we have not complied with their sustainability requirements. These costs, changes and loss of revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Our business may be harmed by anti-terrorism measures.. In the aftermath of terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to implement security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Although many companies would be adversely affected by any slowdown in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. For example, we offer specialized services that guarantee on-time delivery. If the security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may incur increased expenses to do so. We cannot assure you that these measures will not significantly increase our costs and reduce our operating margins and income.. Current or future litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We have been and continue to be involved in legal proceedings, claims and other litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation may be related to labor and employment, competitive matters, property damage and liability claims, safety and contract compliance, environmental liability, our past financial restructurings and other matters. We discuss legal proceedings in the \"Commitments, Contingencies, and Uncertainties\" footnote to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some or all of our expenditures to defend, settle or litigate these matters may not be covered by insurance or could impact our cost and ability to obtain insurance in the future. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, including to our management due to the increased time and resources required to respond to and address the litigation. The results of complex legal proceedings are often uncertain and difficult to predict. An unfavorable outcome of any particular matter or any future legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. In the future, we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could harm our financial position, liquidity and results of operations.. We may not realize the expected benefits and cost savings from operational changes and performance improvement initiatives.. From time to time, we initiate operational changes and process improvements to reduce costs and improve financial performance. These changes and initiatives typically include evaluating management talent, reducing overhead costs, closing facilities, making upgrades to our technology, eliminating non-core assets and unnecessary activities and implementing changes of operations under. 13. our labor agreements. There is no assurance that any changes and improvements will be successful, that their implementation may not have an adverse impact on our operating results or that we will not have to initiate additional changes and improvements in order to achieve the projected benefits and cost savings.. Difficulties attracting and retaining qualified drivers could result in increases in driver compensation and purchased transportation costs and could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to maintain or grow our fleet.. Should our shipping volumes increase, we may need to attract new qualified drivers and may face difficulty doing so. Like many in the trucking industry, it is important to our business that we retain the necessary number of qualified drivers to operate efficiently. Regulatory requirements, including the CSA program of the FMCSA, have reduced the number of eligible employee drivers and independent contractors and may continue to do so in the future. Future Company driver shortages may result in less than optimal use of rail and over-the-road purchased transportation, which may result in higher costs to the Company and which use is limited under our Memorandum of Understanding (\"MOU\") with the IBT. The compensation we offer our drivers is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to increase driver compensation in future periods if we must attract new drivers. In addition, we and our industry suffer from a high driver turnover rate. Driver turnover requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing revenue equipment. If we are unable to continue to retain drivers and attract new drivers when needed, we could be required to adjust our compensation packages, increase our use of purchased transportation, let tractors sit idle, or operate with fewer tractors and face difficulty meeting customer demands, any of which would adversely affect our growth and profitability.. A significant privacy breach or IT system disruption could adversely affect our business and we may be required to increase our spending on data and system security.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. In addition, the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our networks and systems involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. Our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, malicious insiders, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. Hackers, acting individually or in coordinated groups, may also launch distributed denial of service attacks or ransom or other coordinated attacks that may cause service outages or other interruptions in our business and access to our data. In addition, breaches in security could expose us, our customers, or the individuals affected, to a risk of loss or misuse of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, may be difficult to detect for a long time and often are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.. Any of these occurrences could result in disruptions in our operations, the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, and litigation and potential liability for the Company. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data or system protection measures could be significant and our efforts to deter, identify, mitigate and/or eliminate any security breaches may not be successful.. We face risks associated with doing business in foreign countries.. We conduct a portion of our operations in Canada and, to a lesser extent, Mexico. Our revenue from foreign sources totaled $99.3 million, $101.0 million, and $116.5 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and our long-lived assets located in foreign countries totaled $5.3 million, $5.2 million and $6.5 million at December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. As a participating carrier in the Customs and Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (\"C-TPAT\") program, we and our contractors are able to cross into these countries more efficiently, thereby avoiding substantial delays. If we should lose the ability to participate in the C-TPAT program, we could experience significant border delays which could have a negative impact on our ability to remain competitive and operate efficiently in those countries.  In addition, our foreign operations are subject to certain risks inherent in doing business in jurisdictions outside of the United States, including:. • exposure to local economic, political and labor conditions;. • unexpected changes in laws, regulations, trade, monetary or fiscal policy;. • fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the rate of inflation;. • tariffs, quotas, customs and other import or export restrictions and other trade barriers;. • difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-U.S. legal systems;. • withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. 14. • violence and civil unrest in foreign countries;. • compliance with the requirements of applicable anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. • changes in tax law; and. • controls on the repatriation of cash, including the imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by our subsidiaries.. We are dependent on the services of key employees and the loss of any substantial number of these individuals or an inability to hire additional personnel could adversely affect us.. Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain skilled employees, particularly personnel with significant management and leadership skills.  If we are unable to attract and retain skilled key employees, we may be unable to accomplish the objectives set forth in our business and strategic plans.. Seasonality and the impact of weather affect our operations and profitability.. As is common in the trucking industry, our revenues are subject to seasonal variations.  During late fourth quarter and early first quarter each year, we expect operating expenses as a percent of revenue to increase and operating cash flows as a percent of revenue to decrease as compared to the rest of the year.  The seasonal impact is primarily due to inclement weather, seasonally lower levels of shipments, and the seasonal timing of expenditures.  We anticipate these seasonal trends will continue to impact our financial results and liquidity.. Changes in fuel prices and shortages of fuel can have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and profitability.. To lessen the effect of fluctuating fuel prices on our margins, we utilize a fuel surcharge program with our customers.  These programs are common in the trucking industry and involve adjusting amounts charged to customers as fuel prices fluctuate.  In the short term, under our present fuel surcharge program, rising fuel costs generally benefit us while falling fuel costs have a negative impact on our results of operations, though these effects are typically moderated over time.  However, rapid material changes in the index upon which we base our program or our cost of fuel could significantly impact our revenue and operating income, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. In addition, fuel shortages and petroleum product rationing could have a material adverse impact on our operations and profitability.. Financial and Liquidity Risks. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the documents governing our existing and future indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity.. The documents governing our indebtedness contain financial covenants, affirmative covenants requiring us to take certain actions and negative covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions. In particular, our agreement (the \"Term Loan Agreement\") for our $600 million term loan facility (\"Term Loan\") has certain financial covenants that, among other things, restrict certain capital expenditures and require us to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio. These covenants were last modified as part of the Term Loan amendment on July 26, 2017. For the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2017, our maximum total leverage ratio was 3.50 to 1.00, and our actual total leverage ratio during this period 3.38 to 1.00. The maximum total leverage ratio under the Term Loan remains at 3.50 to 1.00 throughout 2018 and then begins decreasing, first to 3.25 for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2019. For additional information, see the \"Debt and Financing\" footnote to the consolidated financial statements.. Our current internal projections reflect that our maximum total leverage ratio will be below the ratio of 3.50 to 1.00 for the remainder of 2018.  Our ability to satisfy our liquidity needs and meet future stepped-up covenants beyond the next twelve months is dependent upon our ability to achieve operating results that reflect improvement over our 2017 results.. If going forward we are unsuccessful in meeting our financial covenants, we will need to seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders, or take other remedial measures; otherwise, we will be in default under our credit facilities, which would enable lenders thereunder to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding and exercise remedies with respect to the collateral. If our lenders under our credit facilities demand payment, we will not have sufficient cash to repay such indebtedness. In addition, a default under our credit facilities or the lenders exercising their remedies thereunder could trigger cross-default provisions in our other indebtedness and certain other operating agreements. Our ability to amend our credit facilities or otherwise obtain waivers from our lenders depends on matters that are outside of our control and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in that. 15. regard. In addition, any covenant breach or event of default could harm our credit rating and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.. Our indebtedness and cash interest payment obligations, lease obligations and pension funding obligations, as well as our liquidity position, could adversely affect our financial flexibility and our competitive position.. As of  December 31, 2017, we had $926.1 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness.   We also have, and will continue to have, substantial lease obligations. We currently plan to procure a portion of our new revenue equipment using operating leases in 2018 and beyond.  As of December 31, 2017, our expected minimum cash payments for our operating leases for 2018 are $116.5 million, and our total operating lease obligations payable through 2030 are $352.5 million. We expect our funding obligations in 2018 under our single-employer pension plans and the multi-employer pension funds will be approximately $130.0 million. Our indebtedness, lease obligations and pension funding obligations could continue to have an impact on our business. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, available borrowings under our asset-based loan facility (\"ABL Facility\") and any prospective cash flow from operations. As of December 31, 2017, our availability under our ABL facility was $68.9 million and our managed accessibility was $26.7 million. (\"Managed Accessibility\") is the measure of availability management uses based on the ABL requirement to maintain availability in an amount at least equal to or above 10% of the collateral line cap if the fixed charge coverage ratio falls below 1.10.  Our cash and cash equivalents and managed accessibility totaled $118.3 million at December 31, 2017.. For example, these obligations and liquidity limitations could:. • increase our vulnerability to adverse changes or persistent slow growth in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;. • require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, leases and pension funding obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • restrict us from taking advantage of business opportunities;. • make it more difficult to satisfy our financial obligations and meet future stepped up financial covenants in our credit facilities;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, lease obligations, and pension funding obligations; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes on satisfactory terms or at all.. Our ability to service all of our indebtedness and satisfy all of other obligations depends on many factors beyond our control, and if we cannot generate enough cash to service our indebtedness and satisfy such other obligations, we may be forced to take one or more actions, which may not be successful.. Cash flows from operations are the principal source of funding for us. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows are insufficient to service our indebtedness and satisfy our other obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness or other financial obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital and credit markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates.  In addition, any refinancing of our indebtedness or restructuring of our other obligations may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations and limit our financial flexibility. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. Any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness or satisfy our other financial obligations on a timely basis would likely result in a lowering of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and, as a result, our liquidity and financial condition could be adversely affected and we may not be able to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our outstanding debt.. Restrictive covenants in the documents governing our existing and future indebtedness may limit our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies.. The documents governing our existing indebtedness contain, and the documents governing any future indebtedness will likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on. 16. our ability to take actions that we believe may be in our interest. The documents governing our existing indebtedness, among other things, limit our ability to:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • make certain restricted payments or investments;. • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from restricted subsidiaries;. • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • create or incur liens;. • enter into sale/leaseback transactions;. • merge, consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets; and. • make certain investments and acquire certain assets.. The restrictions could adversely affect our ability to:. • finance our operations;. • make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances;. • withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general;. • engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and. • plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies.. Our ability to obtain future financing or to sell assets could be adversely affected because substantially all of our assets have been pledged as collateral for the benefit of the holders of our indebtedness.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult to resell our Common Stock when holders want or at prices they find attractive.. The market price for our Common Stock has been highly volatile and subject to significant fluctuations. We expect the market price of our Common Stock to continue to be volatile and subject to these fluctuations in response to a wide variety of factors, including the following:. • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of securities of similar companies;. • general market conditions and overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets;. • variations in our operating results, or the operating results of our competitors;. • changes in our financial guidance, if any, or securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance;. • sales of large blocks of our Common Stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders;. • additions or departures of any of our key personnel;. • announcements related to litigation;. • changing legal or regulatory developments in the United States and other countries; and. • commentary about us or our stock price by the financial press and in online investor communities.. In addition, the stock markets from time to time experience price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies and that may be extreme. These fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.. Future issuances of our Common Stock or equity-related securities in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings.. In the future, we may issue additional shares of our Common Stock to raise capital or in connection with a restructuring or refinancing of our indebtedness. In addition, shares of our Common Stock are reserved for issuance, exercise of outstanding stock options and vesting of outstanding share units. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 33,000 shares of Common Stock, outstanding vested restricted stock and share units and performance based share units representing the right to receive a total of approximately 1.4 million shares of Common Stock upon vesting, and an aggregate of approximately 1.9 million shares of our Common Stock was reserved for future issuance under our Amended and Restated 2011 Incentive and Equity Award Plan (the \"Amended 2011 Plan\"). We have registered under the Securities Act all of the shares of Common Stock that we may issue upon the exercise of our outstanding options and the vesting of outstanding share. 17. units and on account of future awards made under the Amended 2011 Plan. All of these registered shares generally can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. If a large number of these shares are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our Common Stock.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that such issuances may have on the market price for our Common Stock. Sales of significant amounts of our Common Stock or equity-related securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our Common Stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. Further sales of shares of our Common Stock or the availability of shares of our Common Stock for future sale or in connection with hedging and arbitrage activity that may develop with respect to our Common Stock, could adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on shares of our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund operations, invest in new revenue equipment, to service debt and other obligations, such as lease and pension funding requirements, and to use for other corporate needs. Further, our credit facilities limit our ability to pay cash dividends.. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of holders of our Common Stock.. Our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes the issuance of 5.0 million shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized to approve the issuance of one or more series of preferred stock without further authorization of our shareholders and to fix the number of shares, the designations, the relative rights and the limitations of any series of preferred stock. As a result, our Board, without shareholder approval, could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights that could proportionately reduce, minimize or otherwise adversely affect the voting power and other rights of holders of our Common Stock or other series of preferred stock or that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control."
