[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider each of the following risks, as well as the information included elsewhere in this report, before deciding to invest in our common stock or otherwise in connection with evaluating our business. The risk factors have been separated into four general groups: risks related to our business and industry, risks related to doing business in China, risks related to the separation and related transactions and risks related to our common stock. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting us in each of these categories of risk. However, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our reputation and business.. Food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis and salmonella, have occurred and may re-occur within our system from time to time. In addition, food safety issues such as food tampering, contamination and adulteration occur or may occur within our system from time to time. Any report or publicity linking us, our competitors, our restaurants, including restaurants operated by us or our franchisees, or any of YUM's restaurants, to instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues could adversely affect our restaurants' brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation and damages. If a customer of our restaurants becomes ill from food-borne illnesses or as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which would decrease our revenues. In addition, instances or allegations of food-borne illness or food safety issues, real or perceived, involving our or YUM's restaurants, restaurants of competitors, or suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect our sales. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our franchisees.. Any significant failure to maintain effective quality control systems for our restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.. The quality and safety of the food we serve is critical to our success. Maintaining consistent food quality depends significantly on the effectiveness of our and our franchisees' quality control systems, which in turn depends on a number of factors, including the design of our quality control systems and employee implementation and compliance with those quality control policies and guidelines. Our quality control systems consist of (i) supplier quality control, (ii) logistics quality control, (iii) food processing plants' quality control, and (iv) restaurant quality control. There can be no assurance that our and our franchisees' quality control systems will prove to be effective. Any significant failure or deterioration of these quality control systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.. 17. 2017 Form 10-K. Any significant liability claims, food contamination complaints from our customers or reports of incidents of food tampering could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.. Being in the restaurant industry, we face an inherent risk of food contamination and liability claims. Our food quality depends partly on the quality of the food ingredients and raw materials provided by our suppliers, and we may not be able to detect all defects in our supplies. Any food contamination occurring in raw materials at our suppliers' food processing plants or during the transportation from food processing plants to our restaurants that we fail to detect or prevent could adversely affect the quality of the food served in our restaurants. Due to the scale of our and our franchisees' operations, we also face the risk that certain of our and our franchisees' employees may not adhere to our mandated quality procedures and requirements. Any failure to detect defective food supplies, or observe proper hygiene, cleanliness and other quality control requirements or standards in our operations could adversely affect the quality of the food we offer at our restaurants, which could lead to liability claims, complaints and related adverse publicity, reduced customer traffic at our restaurants, the imposition of penalties against us or our franchisees by relevant authorities and compensation awards by courts. Our sales have been significantly impacted by adverse publicity relating to supplier actions over the past decade. For example, our sales and perception of our brands were significantly impacted following adverse publicity relating to the failure of certain upstream poultry suppliers to meet our standards in late 2012 as well as adverse publicity relating to improper food handling practices by another supplier in mid-2014. There can be no assurance that similar incidents will not occur again in the future or that we will not receive any food contamination claims or defective products from our suppliers in the future. Any such incidents could materially harm our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.. Health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business.. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of a widespread health epidemic, such as avian flu, or H1N1, or \"swine flu.\" The occurrence of such an outbreak of an epidemic illness or other adverse public health developments in China could materially disrupt our business and operations. Such events could also significantly impact our industry and cause a temporary closure of restaurants, which would severely disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations could be disrupted if any of our employees or employees of our business partners were suspected of having the swine flu or avian flu, since this could require us or our business partners to quarantine some or all of such employees or disinfect our restaurant facilities. Outbreaks of avian flu occur from time to time around the world, including in China where virtually all of our restaurants are located, and such outbreaks have resulted in confirmed human cases. It is possible that outbreaks in China and elsewhere could reach pandemic levels. Public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products. This would likely result in lower revenues and profits. Avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact our profit margins and revenues.. Furthermore, other viruses may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. We could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants. Even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may affect our business.. 18. 2017 Form 10-K. We derive substantially all of our revenue from our operations in China and, as a result, our business is highly exposed to the risks of doing business in China.. Virtually all of our restaurants are located, and our revenues and profits originate, in China. As a consequence, our financial results are dependent on our results in China, and our business is highly exposed to all of the risks of doing business there. These risks are described further under the section \"Risks Related to Doing Business in China.\". The operation of our restaurants is subject to the terms of the master license agreement which, if terminated or limited, would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Under the master license agreement with YUM, we are required to comply with certain brand standards established by YUM in connection with the licensed business. If our failure to comply with YUM's standards of operations results in a material adverse effect on any of the brand businesses, YUM has various rights, including the right to terminate the applicable license or eliminate the exclusivity of our license in China.. Additionally, the master license agreement requires that we pay a license fee to YUM of 3% of gross revenue from Company and franchise restaurant sales, net of certain taxes and surcharges, of all restaurants of the licensed brands in China. Prior to the separation, we did not consider such license fee in the evaluation of which Company assets should be tested for impairment. Whether Company store-level assets are impaired will be determined by the overall business performance of the store at that time which will require an assessment of many operational factors. Nonetheless, it is possible that our impairment expense could increase going forward as a result of the inclusion of this license fee. While there may be other considerations that mitigate this expense, it is possible that the imposition of the license fee could impact our unit-level results, which could result in additional Company restaurant closures and/or lower new-unit development.. The master license agreement may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company. If the master license agreement were terminated, or any of our license rights were limited, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected.. Our success is tied to the success of YUM's brand strength, marketing campaigns and product innovation.. The KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell trademarks and related intellectual property are owned by YUM and licensed to us in China, excluding Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau. The value of these marks depends on the enforcement of YUM's trademark and intellectual property rights, as well as the strength of YUM's brands. Due to the nature of licensing and our agreements with YUM, our success is, to a large extent, directly related to the success of the YUM restaurant system, including the management, marketing success and product innovation of YUM. Further, if YUM were to reallocate resources away from the KFC, Pizza Hut or Taco Bell brands, these brands and the license rights that have been granted to us could be harmed globally or regionally, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our competitiveness in China. In addition, strategic decisions made by YUM management related to its brands, marketing and restaurant systems may not be in our best interests and may conflict with our strategic plans.. 19. 2017 Form 10-K. Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues.. The products used in the operation of our restaurants are sourced from a wide variety of suppliers inside and outside of China. We are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and other supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of food products and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we use and the operations of our restaurants. Such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, increased demand, labor shortages, problems in production or distribution, restrictions on imports or exports, government levies, political instability in the countries in which suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers' or distributors' failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements or other conditions beyond our control. Despite our efforts in developing multiple suppliers for the same items, a shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could still increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures and/or a decrease in sales. In addition, failure by a principal supplier or distributor for us and/or our franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new supplier or distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business.. In addition, we centrally purchase substantially all food and paper products, then sell and deliver them to most of our restaurants. We believe this central procurement model allows us to maintain quality control and achieve better prices and terms through volume purchases. However, we may not be able to accurately estimate the demand from franchisees and unconsolidated affiliates, which may result in excessive inventory. We may also not be able to timely collect payments from franchisees and unconsolidated affiliates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not attain our target development goals; aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales; and new restaurants may not be profitable.. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to build new restaurants in China. The successful development of new units depends in large part on our ability to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants profitably. We cannot guarantee that we, or our franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. Further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. Other risks which could impact our ability to increase the number of our restaurants include prevailing economic conditions and our or our franchisees' ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified restaurant crews and meet construction schedules.. In addition, the new restaurants could impact the sales of our existing restaurants nearby. There can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets in China.. Our growth strategy includes expanding our ownership and operation of restaurant units through organic growth by developing new restaurants that meet our investment objectives. We may not be able to achieve our growth objectives, and these new restaurants may not be profitable. The opening and success of restaurants we may open in the future depends on various factors, including:. •  our ability to obtain or self-fund adequate development financing;. •  competition from other QSRs in current and future markets;. 20. 2017 Form 10-K. •  our degree of penetration in existing markets;. •  the identification and availability of suitable and economically viable locations;. •  sales and margin levels at existing restaurants;. •  the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations;. •  regulatory compliance regarding restaurant opening and operation;. •  the ability to meet construction schedules;. •  our ability to hire and train qualified restaurant crews; and. •  general economic and business conditions.. The prices of raw materials fluctuate, which may adversely impact our profit margin.. Our restaurant business depends on reliable sources of large quantities of raw materials such as protein (including poultry, pork, beef and seafood), cheese, oil, flour and vegetables (including potatoes and lettuce). Our raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by any fluctuation in aggregate supply and demand, or other external conditions, such as climate and environmental conditions where weather conditions or natural events or disasters may affect expected harvests of such raw materials. As a result, the historical prices of raw materials consumed by us have fluctuated. We cannot assure you that we will continue to purchase raw materials at reasonable prices, or that our raw materials prices will remain stable in the future. In addition, because we and our franchisees provide competitively priced food, our ability to pass along commodity price increases to our customers is limited. If we are unable to manage the cost of our raw materials or to increase the prices of our products, it may have an adverse impact on our future profit margin.. We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing real estate, and any adverse developments could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. As a significant number of our restaurants are operating on leased properties, we are exposed to the market conditions of the retail rental market. As of year-end 2017, we leased the land and/or building for approximately 6,300 restaurants in China. For information regarding our leased properties, please refer to Item 2. \"Properties.\" Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks generally associated with leasing real estate, including changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, trade zone shifts, central business district relocations, and supply or demand for the use of the restaurants, as well as potential liability for environmental contamination.. We generally enter into lease agreements with initial terms of 10 to 20 years. Less than 5% of our existing leases expire before the end of 2018. Most of our lease agreements contain an early termination clause that permits us to terminate the lease agreement early if the restaurant's unit contribution is negative for a specified period of time. We generally do not have renewal options for our leases and need to negotiate the terms of renewal with the lessor, who may insist on a significant modification to the terms and conditions of the lease agreement.. 21. 2017 Form 10-K. The rent under the majority of our current restaurant lease agreements is generally payable in one of three ways: (i) fixed rent; (ii) the higher of a fixed base rent or a percentage of the restaurant's annual sales revenue, subject to adjustment; or (iii) a percentage of the restaurant's annual sales revenue, subject to adjustment. Adjustments to rent calculated as a percentage of the restaurant's annual sales revenue generally correspond to the level of annual sales revenue as specified in the agreement. In addition to increases in rent resulting from fluctuations in annual sales revenue, certain of our lease agreements include provisions specifying fixed increases in rental payments over the respective terms of the lease agreements. While these provisions have been negotiated and are specified in the lease agreement, they will increase our costs of operation and therefore may materially and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition if we are not able to pass on the increased costs to our customers. Certain of our lease agreements also provide for the payment of a management fee at either a fixed rate or fixed amount per square meter of the relevant leased property.. Where we do not have an option to renew a lease agreement, we must negotiate the terms of renewal with the lessor, who may insist on a significant modification to the terms and conditions of the lease agreement. If a lease agreement is renewed at a rate substantially higher than the existing rate, or if any existing favorable terms granted by the lessor are not extended, we must determine whether it is desirable to renew on such modified terms. If we are unable to renew leases for our restaurant sites on acceptable terms or at all, we will have to close or relocate the relevant restaurants, which would eliminate the sales that those restaurants would have contributed to our revenues during the period of closure, and could subject us to construction, renovation and other costs and risks. In addition, the revenue and any profit generated after relocation may be less than the revenue and profit previously generated before such relocation. As a result, any inability to obtain leases for desirable restaurant locations or renew existing leases on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to obtain desirable restaurant locations on commercially reasonable terms.. We compete with other retailers and restaurants for suitable locations, and the market for retail premises is very competitive in China. Our competitors may negotiate more favorable lease terms than our lease terms, and some landlords and developers may offer priority or grant exclusivity to some of our competitors for desirable locations for various reasons beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to enter into new lease agreements for prime locations on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we cannot obtain desirable restaurant locations on commercially reasonable terms, our business, results of operations and ability to implement our growth strategy may be materially and adversely affected.. Labor shortages or increases in labor costs could slow our growth and harm our business and results of operations.. Restaurant operations are highly service-oriented, and our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, and other crew members. The market for qualified employees in our industry is very competitive. Any future inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants and could adversely impact our existing restaurants. Any such delays, material increases in employee turnover rate in existing restaurants or widespread employee dissatisfaction could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, competition for qualified employees could also compel us to pay higher wages to attract or retain key crew members, which could result in higher labor costs.. 22. 2017 Form 10-K. The Chinese Labor Contract Law that became effective on January 1, 2008 formalizes workers' rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions, and provides for specific standards and procedures for employees' protection. Moreover, minimum wage requirements in China have increased and could continue to increase our labor costs in the future. The salary level of employees in the restaurant industry in China has been increasing in the past several years. We may not be able to increase our product prices enough to pass these increased labor costs on to our customers, in which case our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. Our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brands.. One of our primary assets is the exclusive right to use the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell trademarks in restaurants in China. Our success depends in large part upon our ability and our franchisees' ability to maintain and enhance the value of these brands and our customers' loyalty to these brands in China. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. Business incidents, whether isolated or recurring, and whether originating from us, our franchisees, competitors, suppliers and distributors or YUM and its other licensees or franchisees, competitors, suppliers and distributors outside China can significantly reduce brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. For example, our brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality of our suppliers and distributors, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. Any such incidents (even if resulting from the actions of a competitor) could cause a decline directly or indirectly in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our brands and/or our products and reduce consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits. Additionally, our corporate reputation could suffer from a real or perceived failure of corporate governance or misconduct by a company officer, employee or representative.. The occurrence of security breaches and cyber-attacks could negatively impact our business.. We are increasingly dependent on technology systems, such as the use of online platforms, mobile ordering apps, mobile payment systems, loyalty programs and various other on-line processes and functions. For example, as of year-end 2017, loyalty program members increased to over 110 million members for KFC and over 35 million for Pizza Hut. KFC member sales represented approximately 38% of KFC's Company sales and Pizza Hut member sales represented approximately 34% of Pizza Hut's Company sales in the fourth quarter of 2017. As we continue to expand our digital initiatives, the risks relating to security breaches and cyber-attacks against our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced, may increase.. The cybersecurity measures that we have deployed may not detect or prevent all attempts to compromise our systems. The techniques used to conduct security breaches and cyber-attacks, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against us or our third-party service providers. We or our third-party service providers may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. We have in the past and are likely again in the future to be subject to these types of attacks, although to date no attack has resulted in any material damages or remediation costs. The primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationships with customers, franchisees and employees, damage to our reputation and private data exposure. If we or our third-party service providers are unable to avert security breaches and cyber-attacks, we could incur significantly higher costs, including remediation costs to repair damage caused by the breach (including business incentives to make amends with affected customers and franchisees), costs to deploy additional personnel and network protection technologies, train employees and engage third-party experts and consultants, as well as litigation costs resulting from the incident. These costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations in the period in which they are incurred and may not meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our information technology systems.. 23. 2017 Form 10-K. Failure to protect the integrity and security of our customer or employee personal, financial or other data or our proprietary or confidential information that is stored in our information systems or by third parties on our behalf could result in substantial costs, expose us to litigation and damage our reputation.. We have been using, and plan to continue to use, digital technologies to improve the customer experience and drive sales growth. We, directly or indirectly, receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our customers in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third-party service providers when, for example, receiving orders through online platforms and mobile ordering apps, accepting cashless payments, operating loyalty programs and conducting digital marketing programs. Our information technology systems, such as those we use for administrative functions, including human resources, payroll, accounting and internal and external communications, can contain personal, financial or other information of our more than 450,000 employees. We also maintain important proprietary and other confidential information related to our operations and identifiable information about our franchisees. As a result, we face risks inherent in handling and protecting large volumes of information.. If our security and information systems or the security and information systems of third-party service providers are compromised for any reason, including as a result of data corruption or loss, security breach or cyber-attack, or if our employees, franchisees or service providers fail to comply with laws, regulations and practice standards, and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could subject us to litigation and government enforcement actions, cause us to incur substantial costs, liabilities and penalties and/or result in a loss of customer confidence, any and all of which could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the use and handling of this information is regulated by evolving and increasingly demanding laws and regulations. The Chinese government has focused increasingly on regulation in the areas of information security and protection, including by implementing a new cybersecurity law effective June 1, 2017, which imposes tightened requirements on data privacy and cybersecurity practices. There are uncertainties with respect to the application of the cybersecurity law in certain circumstances. Compliance with the cybersecurity law, as well as additional laws and regulations that PRC regulatory bodies may enact in the future, may result in additional expenses to us as we may be required to upgrade our current information technology systems. Furthermore, as a result of legislative and regulatory rules, we may be required to notify the owners of personal information of any breach, theft or loss of their personal information, which could harm our reputation, as well as subject us to litigation or actions by regulatory bodies and adversely affect our financial results.. We expect that these areas will receive greater attention and focus from regulators, as well as attract continued or greater public scrutiny and attention going forward, which could increase our compliance costs and subject us to heightened risks and challenges associated with information security and protection. If we are unable to manage these risks, we could become subject to penalties, including fines, suspension of business, shutdown of websites and revocation of required licenses, and our reputation and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 24. 2017 Form 10-K. Our operations are highly dependent upon our information technology systems and any failures or interruptions of service or security breaches in our systems may interrupt our operations and harm our business.. Our operations are dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our computer and information technology systems. We rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including those we use for finance and accounting functions, supply chain management, point-of-sale processing, online and mobile platforms, mobile payment processing, loyalty programs and various other processes and functions, and many of these systems are interdependent on one another for their functionality. Additionally, the success of several of our initiatives to drive growth, including our priority to expand digital engagement with our customers, is highly dependent on the reliability, integrity and capacity of our information technology systems. We also rely on third- party providers and platforms for some of these information technology systems and support.. Our operational safeguards may not be effective in preventing the failure of these systems to operate effectively and be continuously available to run our business. Such failures may be caused by various factors, including fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, physical break-ins, programming errors, flaws in third-party software or services, errors by our employees or third-party service providers or breaches in the security of these systems or platforms, including unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Such failures could result in:. •  additional computer and information security and systems development costs;. •  diversion of technical and other resources;. •  loss of customers and sales;. •  loss or theft of customer, employee or other data;. •  negative publicity;. •  harm to our business and reputation;. •  negative impact on the efficiency of our operations; and. •  exposure to litigation claims, government investigations and enforcement actions, fraud losses or other liabilities.. We will continue to upgrade and improve our information technology systems to support our business growth. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing these system upgrades and improvement strategies and the foregoing risks could intensify while we execute those upgrades and improvements. In particular, our systems may experience interruptions during upgrades, and the new technologies or infrastructures may not be fully integrated with the existing systems on a timely basis, or at all. If we are unsuccessful in updating, upgrading and expanding our systems, our ability to increase comparable store sales, improve operations, implement cost controls and grow our business may be constrained.. 25. 2017 Form 10-K. Our business depends on the performance of, and our long-term relationships with, third-party mobile payment processors, delivery aggregators, internet infrastructure operators and internet service providers.. Mobile payments accounted for about 53% of Company sales during the fourth quarter of 2017. The ability to accept mobile payments is critical to our business. We accept payments through third-party mobile payment processors, such as WeChat and Alipay. If we fail to extend or renew the agreements with these mobile payment processors on acceptable terms or if these mobile payment processors are unwilling or unable to provide us with payment processing service or impose onerous requirements on us in order to access their services, or if they increase the fees they charge us for these services, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the internet infrastructure in China. Almost all access to the internet in China is maintained through state-owned telecommunications operators under administrative control, and we obtain access to end-user networks operated by such telecommunications operators and internet service providers to give customers access to our websites. The availability of our websites depends on telecommunications operators and other third-party providers for communications and storage capacity, including bandwidth and server storage, among other things. If we are unable to enter into and renew agreements with these providers on acceptable terms, or if any of our existing agreements with such providers are terminated as a result of our breach or otherwise, our ability to provide our services to our customers could be adversely affected. The failure of telecommunications operators to provide us with the requisite bandwidth could also interfere with the speed and availability of our websites and mobile applications. Frequent interruptions could frustrate customers and discourage them from attempting to place orders, which could cause us to lose customers and harm our operating results.. Our delivery business depends on the performance of and our long-term relationships with third-party delivery aggregators. We allow our products to be listed on and ordered through their mobile or online platforms. If we fail to extend or renew the agreements with these aggregators on acceptable terms, or at all, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Furthermore, to the extent we rely on the systems of third parties in areas such as mobile payment processing, online and mobile delivery ordering, telecommunications and wireless networks, any defects, failures and interruptions in their systems could result in similar adverse effects on our business. Sustained or repeated system defects, failures or interruptions could materially impact our operations and results of operations.. Additionally, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by the telecommunications operators. If the prices that we pay for telecommunications and internet services rise significantly, our profit margins could be adversely affected. In addition, if internet access fees or other charges to internet users increase, our user traffic may decrease, which in turn may significantly decrease our revenues.. Our restaurants offer delivery services. Any failure to provide timely and reliable delivery services by us may materially and adversely affect our business and reputation.. As of year-end 2017, over 5,300 KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants offer delivery services. Delivery contributed to 14% of Company sales for 2017. Customers may order delivery service through KFC and Pizza Hut's websites and mobile ordering apps. KFC and Pizza Hut have also partnered with third-party delivery aggregators, allowing our products to be listed on and ordered through their mobile or online platforms.. Interruptions or failures in our delivery services could prevent the timely or successful delivery of our products. These interruptions may be due to unforeseen events that are beyond our control or the control of third-party aggregators and outsourced riders, such as inclement weather, natural disasters, transportation disruptions or labor unrest. The occurrence of food safety or product quality issues may also result in interruptions or failures in our delivery service. If our products are not delivered on time and in proper condition, customers may refuse to accept our products and have less confidence in our services, in which case our business and reputation may suffer.. 26. 2017 Form 10-K. We use our own staff, including outsourced riders, to deliver orders placed through aggregators' platforms to customers of KFC and certain Pizza Hut stores, while we use the aggregators' delivery services, for which we pay a commission, for majority of Pizza Hut orders. These aggregators and outsourced riders may fail to follow the quality standards they agreed upon with us, in which case our business and reputation may suffer.. We may not be able to integrate Daojia successfully and the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized in a timely manner or at all.. In May 2017, we acquired a controlling interest in Daojia with the expectation that the acquisition will enhance our digital and delivery capabilities and accelerate growth by building know-how and expertise in the expanding delivery market. Achieving those anticipated benefits is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether we can integrate the business of Daojia in an efficient and timely manner. We cannot assure you that those benefits will be realized at all or as quickly as we expect, and a failure to achieve those benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.. The integration process could involve unanticipated costs, result in the loss of key employees and divert management's attention away from day-to-day business concerns. Furthermore, any failure to address differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies, and in harmonizing our different reservation systems and other business practices, could adversely affect our business.. In addition, with completion of the Daojia acquisition, our business has expanded. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, including challenges related to the management and development of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing this expanded business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Chinese government may determine that the variable interest entity structure of Daojia does not comply with Chinese laws on foreign investment in restricted industries.. Through the acquisition of Daojia, the Company also acquired a variable interest entity (\"VIE\") and subsidiaries of the VIE in China effectively controlled by Daojia.. Chinese laws and regulations restrict and impose conditions on foreign investment in certain internet business, such as internet content services. For example, foreign investors are generally not permitted to own more than 50% of the equity interests in an internet content provider or other value-added telecommunication service provider. Accordingly, a VIE structure has been adopted by many China-based companies, including Daojia, to obtain necessary licenses and permits in such industries that are currently subject to foreign investment restrictions in China. Daojia operates these businesses in China through its consolidated affiliated entities. Daojia has entered into a series of contractual arrangements with its consolidated affiliated entities and the nominee shareholders of its consolidated affiliated entities. These contractual arrangements allow Daojia to:. •  receive substantially all of the economic benefits and absorb all of the expected losses from its consolidated affiliated entities;. •  exercise effective control over its consolidated affiliated entities; and. •  hold an exclusive option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in its consolidated affiliated entities when and to the extent permitted by Chinese law.. 27. 2017 Form 10-K. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current Chinese laws, rules and regulations. In addition, it is uncertain whether any new Chinese laws, rules or regulations relating to VIE structure will be adopted, or if adopted, what they would provide.. If the VIE structure is found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws, rules or regulations, the relevant PRC regulatory bodies would have broad discretion to take action in dealing with these violations, including revoking the business and operating licenses of Daojia's consolidated affiliated entities, requiring Daojia to restructure its operations or taking other regulatory or enforcement actions against Daojia. The contractual arrangements may also be found by Chinese government authorities, courts or arbitral tribunals to be unenforceable. The imposition of any of these measures could result in a material adverse effect on Daojia's business operations and our business integration process.. Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations.. In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including weblogs (blogs), mini-blogs, WeChat and other chat platforms, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications, which allow individual access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants' post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. Information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate. The online dissemination of negative comments about our brands and business, including inaccurate or irresponsible information, could harm our business, reputation, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The damage may be immediate and intense, without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction, and we may not be able to recover from any negative publicity in a timely manner or at all.. Other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, hoaxes or malicious exposure of false information. The inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations.. We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses, diverting management attention or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies.. We are involved in legal proceedings from time to time. These proceedings do or could include consumer, employment, real estate-related, tort, intellectual property, breach of contract and other litigation. As a public company, we may in the future also be involved in legal proceedings alleging violation of securities laws or derivative litigation. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources and management attention away from our operations and negatively impact reported earnings. With respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, the restaurant industry around the world has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, including weight gain and other adverse effects. We may also be subject to these types of claims in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick-service and fast-casual segments of the retail food industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 28. 2017 Form 10-K. Failure to comply with anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar Chinese laws and other similar applicable laws prohibiting bribery of government officials and other corrupt practices are the subject of increasing emphasis and enforcement around the world. Although we continue to implement policies and procedures designed to duly comply with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or other third parties will not take actions in violation of our policies or applicable law, particularly as we expand our operations through organic growth and acquisitions. Any such violations or suspected violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines and significant investigation costs, and could also materially damage the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell brands, as well as our reputation and prospects, business and results of operations. Publicity relating to any noncompliance or alleged noncompliance could also harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. As a U.S. company with operations concentrated in China, we are subject to both U.S. federal income tax and Chinese enterprise income tax, which could result in relatively higher taxes compared to companies operating primarily in the U.S.. Yum China is a Delaware corporation that indirectly owns the subsidiaries that conduct our business in China and is subject to both U.S. federal income tax and Chinese enterprise income tax. While the recently enacted Tax Act exempts all of the foreign-source dividends paid to the U.S. parent company, with operations primarily in China, we continue to be subject to the Chinese enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% and an additional 10% withholding tax on any earnings repatriated outside of China levied by the Chinese tax authorities. This may put Yum China at a relative disadvantage compared to companies operating primarily in the U.S. which are now subject to U.S. corporate income tax rate of 21% under the Tax Act.. In addition, the Tax Act provides anti-deferral and anti-base erosion provisions that may subject the U.S. parent company to additional U.S. taxes under certain circumstances. If we are assessed with these taxes, it could cause our effective tax rate to increase and affect the amount of any distributions available to our stockholders.. Tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as VAT, customs duty, property tax, stamp duty, environmental protection tax, withholding taxes and obligations and local surcharges, in China and income tax and other taxes in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. We are also subject to reviews, examinations and audits by Chinese tax authorities, the IRS, and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes, including transfer pricing. Our operations in foreign jurisdictions generally remain subject to examination for tax years as far back as 2006, some of which years are currently under audit by local tax authorities. If Chinese tax authorities, the IRS or other taxing authorities disagree with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties. Payment of such additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax legislation and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide. For example, the recently enacted Tax Act implemented broad reforms to the U.S. corporate income tax system and significantly altered how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Any increases in tax rates or changes in tax laws or the interpretations thereof (including pending interpretations relating to the Tax Act) could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. 29. 2017 Form 10-K. Moreover, the tax regime in China is rapidly evolving and there can be significant uncertainty for taxpayers in China as Chinese tax laws may change significantly or be subject to uncertain interpretations. Since 2012, the Chinese government launched a VAT pilot reform to replace BT (\"VAT pilot program\") to make reform to its retail tax structure by ending the co-existence of BT and VAT where BT would be gradually phased out and replaced by VAT. The retail tax structure reform is intended to be a progressive and positive shift to more closely align with a more modern service-based economy. Effective May 1, 2016, the retail tax structure reform has been rolled out to cover all business sectors nationwide where the BT has been completely replaced by VAT. The interpretation and application of the new VAT regime are not settled at some local governmental levels. In addition, the timetable for enacting the prevailing VAT regulations into national VAT law, including ultimate enacted VAT rates, is not clear. Changes in legislation, regulation or interpretation of existing laws and regulations in the U.S., China, and other jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by changes in consumer discretionary spending and general economic conditions.. Purchases at our restaurants are discretionary for consumers and, therefore, our results of operations are susceptible to economic slowdowns and recessions. Our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions in China. Some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment rates, fluctuations in the level of disposable income, the price of gasoline, stock market performance and changes in the level of consumer confidence. These and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition.. The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive.. The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. If consumer or dietary preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected. We also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. Competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services in China has also increased in recent years, particularly in urbanized areas. Increased competition could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Any inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants and catering services in our markets may prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. We may also need to modify or refine elements of our restaurant system in order to compete with popular new restaurant styles or concepts, including delivery aggregators, that develop from time to time. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing any such modifications or that such modifications will not reduce our profitability.. 30. 2017 Form 10-K. We require various approvals, licenses and permits to operate our business and the loss of or failure to obtain or renew any or all of these approvals, licenses and permits could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In accordance with the laws and regulations of China, we are required to maintain various approvals, licenses and permits in order to operate our restaurant business. Each of our restaurants in China is required to obtain the relevant food hygiene license or food service license, public assembly venue hygiene license, environmental protection assessment and inspection approval and fire safety design approval and fire prevention inspection report, and some of our restaurants which sell alcoholic beverages are required to make further registrations or obtain additional approvals. These licenses and registrations are achieved upon satisfactory compliance with, among other things, the applicable food safety, hygiene, environmental protection, fire safety and alcohol laws and regulations. Most of these licenses are subject to periodic examinations or verifications by relevant authorities and are valid only for a fixed period of time and subject to renewal and accreditation. There is no assurance that we or our franchisees will be able to obtain or maintain any of these licenses.. We may not be able to adequately protect the intellectual property we own or have the right to use, which could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business and operations.. We believe that our brands are essential to our success and our competitive position. The fact that our trademarks are duly registered may not be adequate to protect these intellectual property rights. In addition, third parties may infringe upon the intellectual property rights we own or have the right to use or misappropriate the proprietary knowledge we use in our business, primarily our proprietary recipes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The laws of China may not offer the same protection for intellectual property rights as the U.S. and other jurisdictions with more robust intellectual property laws.. We are required under the master license agreement with YUM to police, protect and enforce the trademarks and other intellectual property rights used by us, and to protect trade secrets. Such actions to police, protect or enforce could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could negatively affect our sales, profitability and prospects. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. Even if actions to police, protect or enforce are resolved in our favor, we may not be able to successfully enforce the judgment and remedies awarded by the court and such remedies may not be adequate to compensate us for our actual or anticipated losses.. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with the use of the proprietary know-how, concepts, recipes or trade secrets we use in our business. Defending against such claims may be costly and, if we are unsuccessful, we may be prohibited from continuing to use such proprietary information in the future or be forced to pay damages, royalties or other fees for using such proprietary information, any of which could negatively affect our sales, profitability and prospects.. Our licensor may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property, which could harm the value of the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell brands and branded products and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The success of our business depends in large part on our continued ability to use the trademarks, service marks, recipes and other components of the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell branded systems that we license from YUM pursuant to the master license agreement we entered into in connection with the separation.. 31. 2017 Form 10-K. We are not aware of any assertions that the trademarks, menu offerings or other intellectual property rights we license from YUM infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, but third parties may claim infringement by us or YUM in the future. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items in the future or require us to enter into additional royalty or licensing agreements with third parties. As a result, any such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations may fluctuate due to seasonality and certain major events in China.. Our sales are subject to seasonality. For example, we typically generate higher sales during Chinese festivities, holiday seasons as well as summer months, but relatively lower sales and lower operating profit during the second and fourth quarters. As a result of these fluctuations, softer sales during a period in which we have historically experienced higher sales could have a disproportionately negative effect on our full-year results, and comparisons of sales and results of operations within a financial year may not be able to be relied on as indicators of our future performance. Any seasonal fluctuations reported in the future may differ from the expectations of our investors.. We may be unable to detect, deter and prevent all instances of fraud or other misconduct committed by our employees, customers or other third parties.. As we operate in the restaurant industry, we usually receive and handle relatively large amounts of cash in our daily operations. Instances of fraud, theft or other misconduct with respect to cash can be difficult to detect, deter and prevent, and could subject us to financial losses and harm our reputation.. We may be unable to prevent, detect or deter all such instances of misconduct. Any such misconduct committed against our interests, which may include past acts that have gone undetected or future acts, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including revenue recognition, long-lived asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, lease accounting and share-based compensation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. New accounting guidance may require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or change our financial statements. For example, implementing future accounting guidance related to leases and other areas impacted by the convergence project between the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the International Accounting Standards Board could require us to make significant changes to our lease management system or other accounting systems, and will result in changes to our financial statements.. Our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage for all claims associated with our business operations.. We have obtained insurance policies that we believe are customary and appropriate for businesses of our size and type and at least in line with the standard commercial practice in China. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not cost effective to insure, such as loss of reputation. If we were held liable for uninsured losses or amounts or claims for insured losses exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. 32. 2017 Form 10-K. Failure by us to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the rules of the SEC could harm our business and results of operations and/or result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal control over financial reporting in connection with our filing of periodic reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act.. We may fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, and our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This may in turn cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, we have incurred substantial costs, and may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources, to comply with these requirements going forward.. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate and we may face restricted access to the capital markets, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Unforeseeable business interruptions could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fires, floods, earthquakes, power failures and power shortages, hardware and software failures, computer viruses and other events beyond our control. In particular, our business is dependent on prompt delivery and reliable transportation of our food products by our logistics partners. Unforeseeable events, such as adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, severe traffic accidents and delays, non-cooperation of our logistics partners, and labor strikes, could lead to delay or lost deliveries to our restaurants, which may result in the loss of revenue or in customer claims. There may also be instances where the conditions of fresh, chilled or frozen food products, being perishable goods, deteriorate due to delivery delays, malfunctioning of refrigeration facilities or poor handling during transportation by our logistics partners. This may result in a failure by us to provide quality food and services to customers, thereby affecting our business and potentially damaging our reputation. Any such events experienced by us could disrupt our operations.. Risks Related to Doing Business in China. Changes in Chinese political policies and economic and social policies or conditions may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and may result in our inability to sustain our growth and expansion strategies.. Substantially all of our assets and business operations are located in China. Accordingly, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in China generally, by continued economic growth in China as a whole, and by geopolitical stability in the region. For example, our results of operations in the third quarter of 2016 were adversely impacted by an international court ruling in July 2016 regarding claims to sovereignty over the South China Sea, which triggered a series of regional protests and boycotts in China, intensified by social media, against a few international companies with well-known Western brands.. 33. 2017 Form 10-K. The Chinese economy, markets and levels of consumer spending are influenced by many factors beyond our control, including current and future economic conditions, political uncertainty, unemployment rates, inflation, fluctuations in the level of disposable income, taxation, foreign exchange control, and changes in interest and currency exchange rates. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, foreign exchange control and fiscal measures and allocation of resources. Although the Chinese government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the restructuring of state assets and state-owned enterprises, and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a significant portion of productive assets in China is still owned or controlled by the Chinese government. The Chinese government also exercises significant control or influence over Chinese economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary and fiscal policies, regulating financial services and institutions and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies.. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in recent decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy but may also have a negative effect on us. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, the Chinese government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China. Since 2012, Chinese economic growth has slowed and any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Restaurant dining, and specifically casual dining, is discretionary for customers and tends to be higher during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. Customers' tendency to become more cost-conscious as a result of an economic slowdown or decreases in disposable income may reduce our customer traffic or average revenue per customer, which may adversely affect our revenues.. Uncertainties with respect to the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws, rules and regulations could have a material adverse effect on us.. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China, and are governed by Chinese laws, rules and regulations. Our subsidiaries are subject to laws, rules and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which legal cases may be cited for reference but have limited value as precedents. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past four decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign or private-sector investment in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties.. From time to time, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to interpret and/or enforce our legal rights. However, since Chinese administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings, and the level of legal protection we enjoy, than in more developed legal systems. Any administrative and court proceedings in China may be protracted, resulting in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Furthermore, the Chinese legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published in a timely manner or at all) that may have retroactive effect.. 34. 2017 Form 10-K. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. Such uncertainties, including uncertainty over the scope and effect of our contractual, property (including intellectual property) and procedural rights, and any failure to respond to changes in the regulatory environment in China could materially adversely affect our business and impede our ability to continue our operations.. Fluctuation in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment.. The conversion of Chinese Renminbi (\"RMB\") into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People's Bank of China (\"PBOC\"). RMB appreciated by more than 20% against U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, the exchange rate between RMB and U.S. dollar remained within a narrow range and after June 2010, RMB appreciated slowly against U.S. dollar again. On August 11, 2015, however, RMB depreciated by approximately 2% against U.S. dollar, and exchange rate change of RMB against U.S. dollar occurred relatively suddenly. In 2016, RMB further fell more than 6% against U.S. dollar, while in 2017, RMB appreciated by over 6% against U.S. dollar. It is difficult to predict how market forces or Chinese or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between RMB and U.S. dollar in the future.. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in RMB. As a Delaware holding company, we may rely on dividends and other fees paid to us by our subsidiaries in China. Any significant revaluation of RMB may materially affect our cash flows, net revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our common stock in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against U.S. dollar would make any new RMB-denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. Conversely, a significant depreciation of RMB against U.S. dollar may significantly reduce U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our common stock. If we decide to convert RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common stock, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of U.S. dollar against RMB would have a negative effect on U.S. dollar amount available to us.. Few hedging options are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, our currency exchange loss may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates and restrictions on exchange may have a material adverse effect on your investment.. 35. 2017 Form 10-K. Governmental control of currency conversion and payments of foreign currency and RMB out of mainland China may limit our ability to utilize our cash balances effectively and affect the value of your investment.. The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of both foreign currency and RMB out of mainland China. Under our current corporate structure as a Delaware holding company, our income is primarily derived from the earnings from our Chinese subsidiaries. Substantially all revenues of our Chinese subsidiaries are denominated in RMB. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency and control on payments out of mainland China may restrict the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency and/or RMB to pay dividends or to make other payments to us, or otherwise to satisfy their obligations. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, license fee payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies or RMB without prior approval from China's State Administration of Foreign Exchange (\"SAFE\") and the PBOC by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, for any Chinese company, dividends can be declared and paid only out of the retained earnings of that company under Chinese law. Furthermore, approval from SAFE or its local branch may be required where RMB are to be converted into foreign currencies, and approval from SAFE and the PBOC or their branches may be required where foreign currency and/or RMB are to be remitted out of mainland China. Specifically, under the existing restrictions, without a prior approval from SAFE and the PBOC, cash generated from the operations of our subsidiaries in China may not be used to pay dividends to Yum China, pay the license fee to YUM, pay employees who are located outside mainland China, pay off debt owed by our subsidiaries to entities outside mainland China, or make capital expenditures outside mainland China.. The Chinese government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies or further restrict payments of foreign currency and RMB out of mainland China. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands or restricts us from paying the license fee to YUM, we may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders, fulfill our license fee payment obligation, pay out service fees to vendors and repay our indebtedness when due.. Furthermore, because repatriation of funds and payment of license fees require the prior approval of SAFE and PBOC, such repatriation and payment could be delayed, restricted or limited. There can be no assurance that the rules and regulations pursuant to which SAFE and PBOC grant or deny approvals will not change in a way that adversely affects the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to repatriate funds out of mainland China or pay license fees. Any such limitation could materially and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business.. Changes in the laws and regulations of China or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business and operations are subject to the laws and regulations of China. The continuance of our operations depends upon compliance with, inter alia, applicable Chinese environmental, health, safety, labor, social security, pension and other laws and regulations. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties or lawsuits. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to comply fully with applicable laws and regulations should there be any amendment to the existing regulatory regime or implementation of any new laws and regulations.. Furthermore, our business and operations in China entail the procurement of licenses and permits from the relevant authorities. Difficulties or failure in obtaining the required permits, licenses and certificates could result in our inability to continue our business in China in a manner consistent with past practice. In such an event, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. 36. 2017 Form 10-K. We rely to a significant extent on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our principal operating subsidiaries in China to fund offshore cash requirements.. We are a holding company and conduct all of our business through our operating subsidiaries. We rely to a significant extent on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our principal operating subsidiaries for our cash requirements. As noted above, distributions to us from our subsidiaries may result in incremental tax costs.. The laws, rules and regulations applicable to our Chinese subsidiaries permit payments of dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with applicable Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, under Chinese law, an enterprise incorporated in China is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits each year, after making up previous years' accumulated losses, if any, to fund certain statutory reserve funds, until the aggregate amount of such a fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. As a result, our Chinese subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us in the form of dividends. At the discretion of the board of directors, as an enterprise incorporated in China, each of our Chinese subsidiaries may allocate a portion of its after-tax profits based on Chinese accounting standards to staff welfare and bonus funds. These reserve funds and staff welfare and bonus funds are not distributable as cash dividends. Any limitation on the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us could limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions outside of China that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business.. In addition, the EIT Law and its implementation rules provide that a withholding tax at a rate of 10% will be applicable to dividends payable by Chinese companies to companies that are not China resident enterprises unless otherwise reduced according to treaties or arrangements between the Chinese central government and the governments of other countries or regions where the non-China resident enterprises are incorporated.. Restrictive covenants in bank credit facilities, joint venture agreements or other arrangements that we or our subsidiaries may enter into in the future may also restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions or remittances to us. These restrictions could reduce the amount of dividends or other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries, which in turn could restrict our ability to return capital to our stockholders in the future.. Under the EIT Law, if we are classified as a China resident enterprise for Chinese enterprise income tax purposes, such classification would likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-Chinese stockholders.. Under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, an enterprise established outside China with a \"de facto management body\" within China is considered a China resident enterprise for Chinese enterprise income tax purposes. A China resident enterprise is generally subject to certain Chinese tax reporting obligations and a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on its worldwide income. Furthermore, under the EIT Law, if we are a China resident enterprise (i) dividends paid by us to our non-Chinese stockholders would be subject to a 10% dividend withholding tax or a 20% individual income tax if the stockholder is an individual and (ii) such non-Chinese stockholders may become subject to Chinese tax and filing obligations as well as withholding with respect to any disposition of our stock, subject to certain treaty or other exemptions or reductions.. 37. 2017 Form 10-K. We and each of our subsidiaries that is organized outside of China intend to conduct our and their management functions in a manner that does not cause us or them to be China resident enterprises, including by carrying on day-to-day management activities and maintaining key records, such as resolutions of the board of directors and resolutions of stockholders, outside of China. As such, we do not believe that we or any of our non-Chinese subsidiaries should be considered a China resident enterprise for purposes of the EIT Law. However, given the uncertainty regarding the application of the EIT Law to us and our future operations, there can be no assurance that we or any of our non-Chinese subsidiaries will not be treated as a China resident enterprise now or in the future for Chinese tax law purposes.. We and our stockholders face uncertainty with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in China resident enterprises through transfer of non-Chinese-holding companies. Enhanced scrutiny by the Chinese tax authorities may have a negative impact on potential acquisitions and dispositions we may pursue in the future.. In February 2015, the SAT issued Bulletin 7, pursuant to which an \"indirect transfer\" of Chinese interests by a non-resident enterprise may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of Chinese taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have reasonable commercial purpose and the transferor avoids payment of Chinese enterprise income tax. Where a non-resident enterprise conducts an \"indirect transfer\" of Chinese interests by disposing of equity interests in an offshore holding company that directly or indirectly owns Chinese interests, the transferor, transferee and/or the China resident enterprise may report such indirect transfer to the relevant Chinese tax authority, which may in turn report upward to the SAT. Using general anti-tax avoidance provisions, the SAT may treat such indirect transfer as a direct transfer of Chinese interests if the transfer avoids Chinese tax by way of an arrangement without reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to Chinese enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer would be obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of up to 10% of the capital gain in the case of an indirect transfer of equity interests in a China resident enterprise. Both the transferor and the party obligated to withhold the applicable taxes may be subject to penalties under Chinese tax laws if the transferor fails to pay the taxes and the party obligated to withhold the applicable taxes fails to withhold the taxes. However, the above regulations do not apply if either (i) the selling non-resident enterprise recognizes the relevant gain by purchasing and selling equity of the same listed enterprise in the open market (the \"listed enterprise exception\"); or (ii) the selling non-resident enterprise would have been exempted from enterprise income tax in China pursuant to applicable tax treaties or tax arrangements, if it had directly held and transferred such Chinese interests that were indirectly transferred. Under current law, the China indirect transfer rules do not apply to gains recognized by individual stockholders, regardless of whether or not they acquire or transfer our stock in open market transactions. However, in practice there have been a few reported cases of individuals being taxed on the indirect transfer of Chinese interests and the law could be changed so as to apply to individual stockholders, possibly with retroactive effect.. 38. 2017 Form 10-K. It is unclear whether stockholders that acquired our stock through the distribution will be treated as acquiring such stock in an open market purchase. If such stock is not treated as acquired in an open market purchase, the listed transaction exception will not be available for transfers of such stock. We expect that transfers in open market transactions of our stock by corporate or other non-individual stockholders that have purchased our stock in open market transactions will not be taxable under the China indirect transfer rules due to the listed enterprise exception. Transfers, whether in the open market or otherwise, of our stock by corporate and other non-individual stockholders that acquired our stock in the distribution or in non-open market transactions may be taxable under the China indirect transfer rules and our China subsidiaries may have filing obligations in respect of such transfers, upon the request of relevant Chinese tax authorities. Transfers of our stock in non-open market transactions by corporate and other non-individual stockholders may be taxable under the China indirect transfer rules, whether or not such stock was acquired in open market transactions, and our China subsidiaries may have filing obligations in respect of such transfers upon the request of relevant Chinese tax authorities. Corporate and other non-individual stockholders may be exempt from taxation under the China indirect transfer rules with respect to transfers of our stock if they are tax resident in a country or region that has a tax treaty or arrangement with China that provides for a capital gains tax exemption and they qualify for that exemption.. In addition, we may be subject to these indirect transfer rules in the event of any future sale of a China resident enterprise through the sale of a non-Chinese holding company, or the purchase of a China resident enterprise through the purchase of a non-Chinese holding company. Our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group may be subject to filing obligations or taxation if our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group are transferors in such transactions, and may be subject to withholding obligations if our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group are transferees in such transactions.. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us and our management.. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, some of our directors and executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside of China upon these persons, including with respect to matters arising under applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws. It may also be difficult for investors to bring an original lawsuit against us or our directors or executive officers based on U.S. federal securities laws in a Chinese court. Moreover, China does not have treaties with the United States providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. Therefore, even if a judgment were obtained against us or our management for matters arising under U.S. federal or state securities laws or other applicable U.S. federal or state law, it may be difficult to enforce such a judgment.. Certain defects caused by non-registration of our lease agreements related to certain properties occupied by us in China may materially and adversely affect our ability to use such properties.. As of December 31, 2017, we leased approximately 6,300 properties in China, and to our knowledge, the lessors of most properties leased by us, most of which are used as premises for our restaurants, had not registered the lease agreements with government authorities in China.. According to Chinese laws, a lease agreement is generally required to be registered with the relevant land and real estate administration bureau. However, the enforcement of this legal requirement varies depending on the local regulations and practices and, in cities where we operate a significant number of restaurants, the local land and real estate administration bureaus no longer require registration or no longer impose fines for failure to register the lease agreements. In addition, our standard lease agreements require the lessors to make such registration and, although we have proactively requested that the applicable lessors complete or cooperate with us to complete the registration in a timely manner, we are unable to control whether and when such lessors will do so.. 39. 2017 Form 10-K. A failure to register a lease agreement will not invalidate the lease agreement but may subject the parties to a fine. Depending on the local regulations, the lessor alone or both the lessor and lessee are under the obligation to register a lease agreement with the relevant land and real estate administration bureau. In the event that a fine is imposed on both the lessor and lessee, and if we are unable to recover from the lessor any fine paid by us based on the terms of the lease agreement, such fine will be borne by us.. To date, the operation of our restaurants has not been disrupted due to the non-registration of our lease agreements. No fines, actions or claims have been instituted against us or, to our knowledge, the lessors with respect to the non-registration of our lease agreements. However, we cannot assure you that our lease agreements relating to, and our right to use and occupy, our premises will not be challenged in the future.. Our restaurants are susceptible to risks in relation to unexpected land acquisitions, building closures or demolitions.. The Chinese government has the statutory power to acquire any land use rights of land plots and the buildings thereon in China in the public interest subject to certain legal procedures. Under the Regulations for the Expropriation of and Compensation for Housing on State-owned Land, issued by the State Council, which became effective as of January 21, 2011, there is no legal provision that the tenant of an expropriated property is entitled to compensation. Generally speaking, only the owner of such property is entitled to compensation from the government. The claims of the tenant against the landlord will be subject to the terms of the lease agreement. In the event of any compulsory acquisition, closure or demolition of any of the properties at which our restaurants or facilities are situated, we may not receive any compensation from the government or the landlord. In such event, we may be forced to close the affected restaurant(s) or relocate to other locations, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Any failure to comply with Chinese regulations regarding our employee equity incentive plans may subject Chinese plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions.. Pursuant to SAFE Circular 37, China residents who participate in share incentive plans in overseas non-publicly listed companies may submit applications to SAFE or its local branches for foreign exchange registration with respect to offshore special purpose companies. We and our directors, executive officers and other employees who are Chinese citizens or who have resided in China for a continuous period of not less than one year and who have been granted restricted shares, restricted stock units (\"RSUs\"), stock appreciation rights (\"SARs\"), or options are subject to the Notice on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Publicly Listed Company, issued by SAFE in February 2012, according to which, employees, directors, supervisors and other management members participating in any stock incentive plan of an overseas publicly-listed company who are Chinese citizens or who are non-Chinese citizens residing in China for a continuous period of not less than one year, subject to limited exceptions, are required to register with SAFE through a domestic qualified agent, which could be a Chinese subsidiary of such overseas listed company, and complete certain other procedures. Failure to complete SAFE registrations may result in fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to make payments under our equity incentive plans or receive dividends or sales proceeds related thereto, or our ability to contribute additional capital into our wholly-foreign owned enterprises in China and limit our wholly-foreign owned enterprises' ability to distribute dividends to us. We also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity incentive plans for our directors and employees under Chinese law.. 40. 2017 Form 10-K. In addition, the SAT has issued circulars concerning employee SARs, share options and restricted shares. Under these circulars, employees working in China who exercise share options, or whose restricted shares or RSUs vest, will be subject to Chinese individual income tax. The Chinese subsidiaries of an overseas listed company have obligations to file documents related to employee share options or restricted shares with relevant tax authorities and to withhold individual income taxes of those employees related to their share options, restricted shares, SARs or RSUs. Although we currently intend to withhold income tax from our Chinese employees in connection with their exercise of options and SARs and the vesting of their restricted shares and RSUs, if the employees fail to pay, or our Chinese subsidiaries fail to withhold, their income taxes according to relevant laws, rules and regulations, our Chinese subsidiaries may face sanctions imposed by the tax authorities or other Chinese government authorities.. Failure to make adequate contributions to various employee benefit plans as required by Chinese regulations may subject us to penalties.. Companies operating in China are required to participate in various government-sponsored employee benefit plans, including certain social insurance, housing funds and other welfare-oriented payment obligations, and contribute to the plans in amounts equal to certain percentages of salaries, including bonuses and allowances, of their employees up to a maximum amount specified by the local government from time to time at locations where they operate their businesses. While we believe we comply with all material aspects of relevant regulations, the requirements governing employee benefit plans have not been implemented consistently by the local governments in China given the different levels of economic development in different locations. If we are subject to late fees or fines in relation to the underpaid employee benefits, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. The audit report included in this annual report on Form 10-K is prepared by auditors who are not currently inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, our stockholders are deprived of the benefits of such inspection.. As an auditor of companies that are publicly traded in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (\"PCAOB\"), our independent registered public accounting firm is required under the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB. However, because we have substantial operations within China, our independent registered public accounting firm's audit documentation related to their audit report included in this annual report on Form 10-K is located in China. The PCAOB is currently unable to conduct full inspections in China or review audit documentation located within China without the approval of Chinese authorities.. Inspections of other auditors conducted by the PCAOB outside of China have at times identified deficiencies in those auditors' audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections of audit work undertaken in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor's audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, stockholders may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections, and may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements.. 41. 2017 Form 10-K. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against certain China-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in our financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act.. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Chinese member firms of the \"big four\" accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm. The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to the failure of these firms to produce certain documents, including audit work papers, in response to a request from the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The auditors located in China claim they are not in a position lawfully to produce such documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under Chinese law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (\"CSRC\"). The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our auditor or to us, but potentially affect equally all PCAOB-registered audit firms based in China and all businesses based in China (or with substantial operations in China) with securities listed in the United States. In addition, auditors based outside of China are subject to similar restrictions under Chinese law and CSRC directives in respect of audit work that is carried out in China which supports the audit opinions issued on financial statements of entities with substantial China operations.. In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an initial decision that the Chinese member firms of the \"big four\" accounting firms should be barred from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. In February 2014, the accounting firms filed a petition for review of the initial decision. In February 2015, the Chinese member firms of the \"big four\" accounting firms reached a settlement with the SEC. As part of the settlement, each of the \"big four\" accounting firms agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute with the SEC. The settlement stays the current proceeding for four years, during which time the firms are required to follow detailed procedures to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms' audit documents via the CSRC. If a firm does not follow the procedures, the SEC may impose penalties such as suspensions, or commence a new, expedited administrative proceeding against any non-compliant firm. The SEC could also restart administrative proceedings against all four firms.. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC, and we are unable to timely find another independent registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to delisting of our common stock from the New York Stock Exchange. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may adversely affect investor confidence in companies with substantial China-based operations listed on securities exchanges in the United States. All of these factors could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets.. Chinese regulation of loans to, and direct investment in, Chinese entities by offshore holding companies and governmental control of currency conversion may restrict or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our Chinese subsidiaries, which may materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business.. We are a Delaware holding company conducting our operations in China through our Chinese subsidiaries. We may make loans to our Chinese subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our Chinese subsidiaries, or we may establish new Chinese subsidiaries and make capital contributions to these new Chinese subsidiaries, or we may acquire offshore entities with business operations in China in an offshore transaction.. 42. 2017 Form 10-K. Most of these uses are subject to Chinese regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to our wholly-owned Chinese subsidiaries to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the local counterpart of SAFE. If we decide to finance our wholly-owned Chinese subsidiaries by means of capital contributions, in practice, we might be still required to obtain approval from the China Ministry of Commerce (\"MOFCOM\") or its local counterpart.. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. SAFE Circular 142 provides that RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within China with limited exceptions (e.g., by holding companies, venture capital or private equity firms). In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the RMB capital converted from the foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such RMB capital may not be altered without SAFE approval, and such RMB capital may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Such requirements are also known as the \"payment-based foreign currency settlement system\" established under SAFE Circular 142. Violations of SAFE Circular 142 could result in monetary or other penalties. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated a circular on November 9, 2010, known as Circular 59, and another supplemental circular on July 18, 2011, known as Circular 88, which both tightened the examination of the authenticity of settlement of foreign currency capital or net proceeds from overseas listings. SAFE further promulgated the Circular on Further Clarification and Regulation of the Issues Concerning the Administration of Certain Capital Account Foreign Exchange Businesses, or Circular 45, on November 9, 2011, which expressly prohibited foreign-invested enterprises from using registered capital settled in RMB converted from foreign currencies to grant loans through entrustment arrangements with a bank, repay intercompany loans or repay bank loans that have been transferred to a third party. Circular 142, Circular 59, Circular 88 and Circular 45 may significantly limit our ability to make loans or capital contributions to our Chinese subsidiaries and to convert such proceeds into RMB, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business in China.. 43. 2017 Form 10-K. Furthermore, on April 8, 2015, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Reform of the Administrative Method of the Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, or Circular 19, which became effective as of June 1, 2015. This Circular 19 is to implement the so-called \"conversion-at-will\" of foreign currency in capital account, which was established under a circular issued by SAFE on August 4, 2014, or Circular 36, and was implemented in 16 designated industrial parks as a reform pilot. The Circular 19 now implements the conversion-at-will of foreign currency settlement system nationally, and it abolishes the application of Circular 59 and Circular 45 on March 19, 2015 as well as Circular 142, Circular 88 and Circular 36 starting from June 1, 2015. Among other things, under Circular 19, foreign-invested enterprises may either continue to follow the payment-based foreign currency settlement system or elect to follow the conversion-at-will of foreign currency settlement system. Where a foreign-invested enterprise follows the conversion-at-will of foreign currency settlement system, it may convert any or 100% of the amount of the foreign currency in its capital account into RMB at any time. The converted RMB will be kept in a designated account known as \"Settled but Pending Payment Account,\" and if the foreign-invested enterprise needs to make further payment from such designated account, it still needs to provide supporting documents and go through the review process with its bank. If under special circumstances the foreign-invested enterprise cannot provide supporting documents in time, Circular 19 grants the banks the power to provide a grace period to the enterprise and make the payment before receiving the supporting documents. The foreign-invested enterprise will then need to submit the supporting documents within 20 working days after payment. In addition, foreign-invested enterprises are now allowed to use their converted RMB to make equity investments in China under Circular 19. However, foreign-invested enterprises are still required to use the converted RMB in the designated account within their approved business scope under the principle of authenticity and self-use. It remains unclear whether a common foreign-invested enterprise, other than such special types of enterprises as holding companies, venture capital or private equity firms, can use the converted RMB in the designated account to make equity investments if equity investment or similar activities are not within their approved business scope.. In light of the various requirements imposed by Chinese regulations on loans to and direct investment in Chinese entities by offshore holding companies as discussed above, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, or at all, with respect to future loans by us to our Chinese subsidiaries or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our Chinese subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to capitalize or otherwise fund our Chinese operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business.. Risks Related to the Separation and Related Transactions. The separation may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits.. We may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational or other benefits from the separation. The separation and distribution is expected to provide the following benefits, among others:. •  allowing our company to focus on and more effectively pursue our own distinct operating priorities and strategies, and enabling our management to concentrate efforts on the unique needs of our business and pursue distinct opportunities for long-term growth and profitability;. •  permitting our company to concentrate our financial resources solely on our own operations, providing greater flexibility to invest capital in our business in a time and manner appropriate for our distinct strategy and business needs and facilitating a more efficient allocation of capital;. •  creating an independent equity structure that will afford our company direct access to capital markets and facilitating our ability to capitalize on our unique growth opportunities and effect future acquisitions utilizing our common stock;. 44. 2017 Form 10-K. •  facilitating incentive compensation arrangements for employees more directly tied to the performance of our business, and enhancing employee hiring and retention by, among other things, improving the alignment of management and employee incentives with performance and growth objectives; and. •  allowing investors to separately value our company based on our unique investment identity, including the merits, performance and future prospects of our business, and providing investors with a distinct and targeted investment opportunity.. We may not achieve these and other anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, including, among others:. •  operating as an independent publicly traded company requires a significant amount of management's time and effort, which may divert management's attention from operating and growing our business;. •  we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events as a result of the separation than if we were still a part of YUM; and. •  our business is less diversified than YUM's business prior to the separation.. If the distribution does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company could be subject to significant tax liabilities, and, in certain circumstances, the Company could be required to indemnify YUM for material taxes and other related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement.. The distribution was conditioned on YUM's receipt of opinions of outside advisors regarding the tax-free treatment of the distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The opinions relied on various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by YUM and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such advisors in their opinions. The opinions are not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinions or that any such challenge would not prevail.. If, notwithstanding receipt of the opinions, the distribution were determined to be a taxable transaction, YUM would be treated as having sold shares of the Company in a taxable transaction, likely resulting in a significant taxable gain. Pursuant to the tax matters agreement, the Company and YCCL agreed to indemnify YUM for any taxes and related losses resulting from any breach of covenants regarding the preservation of the tax-free status of the distribution, certain acquisitions of our equity securities or assets, or those of certain of our affiliates or subsidiaries, and any breach by us or any member of our group of certain representations in the documents delivered by us in connection with the distribution. Therefore, if the distribution fails to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free as a result of one of these actions or events, we may be required to make material payments to YUM under this indemnity.. YUM may be subject to Chinese indirect transfer tax with respect to the distribution, in which event we could be required to indemnify YUM for material taxes and related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement.. As noted above, Bulletin 7 provides that in certain circumstances a non-resident enterprise may be subject to Chinese enterprise income tax on an \"indirect transfer\" of Chinese interests. YUM concluded, and we concurred, that it believes that the distribution had a reasonable commercial purpose and that it is more likely than not that YUM will not be subject to this tax with respect to the distribution. However, there are uncertainties regarding the circumstances in which the tax will apply, and there can be no assurances that the Chinese tax authorities will not seek to impose this tax on YUM.. 45. 2017 Form 10-K. Pursuant to the tax matters agreement, the Company and YCCL have agreed to indemnify YUM for a portion (tied to the relative market capitalization of YUM and the Company during the 30 trading days after the distribution) of any taxes and related losses resulting from the application of Bulletin 7 to the distribution. Alternatively, if Bulletin 7 applies to the distribution as a result of a breach by the Company or Company group members of certain representations or covenants, or due to certain actions of the Company or Company group members following the distribution, the Company and YCCL generally will indemnify YUM for all such taxes and related losses. Therefore, if YUM is subject to such Chinese tax with respect to the distribution, we may be required to make material payments to YUM under this indemnity. Such payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. As a result of the separation, our ability to engage in strategic transactions may be limited. In addition, we could be liable for adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in such transactions.. To preserve the tax-free treatment to YUM and its shareholders of the separation and the distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with YUM, for a period of time following the distribution, we generally will be prohibited from taking certain actions that could prevent the distribution and related transactions from qualifying as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 361 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\"). Under the tax matters agreement, for the two-year period following the distribution, the Company will be prohibited, except in certain circumstances, from:. •  facilitating, permitting, or participating in any transaction or transactions resulting in the acquisition of 40% or more of its stock;. •  entering into any transaction or transactions resulting in the acquisition of 50% or more of its assets, whether by merger or otherwise;. •  transferring assets in certain tax-free mergers or consolidations or liquidating;. •  issuing equity securities other than pursuant to certain employment related issuances;. •  redeeming or repurchasing its capital stock other than in certain open market transactions; and. •  ceasing to actively conduct its business.. In addition, the Company is prohibited from taking any action that, or failing to take any action the failure of which to take, would be inconsistent with the tax-free treatment of the distribution and related transactions.. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business.. The distribution may be taxable to YUM and the Company if there is an acquisition of 50% or more of YUM or Company common stock.. Even if the distribution otherwise qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution of Company common stock to YUM shareholders in connection with the distribution would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to YUM under the Code (but not to YUM shareholders) if it were deemed part of a \"plan\" pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, shares representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in YUM or the Company.. 46. 2017 Form 10-K. For purposes of determining whether the distribution of Company common stock to YUM shareholders in connection with the distribution is disqualified as tax-free to YUM under the rules described in the preceding paragraph, any acquisitions of the stock of YUM or the Company within two years before or after the distribution may be presumed to be part of such a \"plan,\" although the parties may be able to rebut that presumption. For purposes of this test, acquisitions of Company common stock by Pollos Investment L.P., an affiliate of Primavera Capital Group (\"Primavera\"), and API (Hong Kong) Investment Limited, an affiliate of Zhejiang Ant Small and Micro Financial Services Group Co., Ltd. (\"Ant Financial\" and together with Primavera, the \"Investors\"), within two years after the distribution will likely be treated as part of such a \"plan.\" In particular, under the terms of the investment agreements among the Company, YUM and the Investors, the Investors acquired in the aggregate 4.8% of the Company's issued and outstanding common stock, which acquisition will be taken into account for purposes of this test. Also, under the terms of the shareholders agreement entered into with the Investors, the Investors are permitted to acquire more Company common stock in the two years following the distribution (including pursuant to the warrants held by the Investors), provided that the Investors' shares of Company common stock (in the aggregate) do not exceed 19.9% of the total shares of the Company's outstanding common stock (subject to certain conditions in the shareholders agreement). Any such additional acquisitions of Company common stock by the Investors in the two years following the distribution will similarly be taken into account for purposes of this test. If one or more other persons acquire, directly or indirectly, shares of the Company that, together with such acquisitions by the Investors in the two years after the distribution, represent a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in the Company, such acquisitions may be deemed part of a \"plan\" that includes the distribution.. The rules for determining whether shares representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in YUM or the Company have been acquired as part of a \"plan\" that includes the distribution are complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If the Company does not carefully monitor its compliance with these rules, it might inadvertently cause or permit such a prohibited change in the ownership of its stock to occur, resulting in significant federal income tax liabilities to YUM under the Internal Revenue Code. Under the terms of the tax matters agreement among YUM, YCCL and the Company entered into in connection with the distribution, YCCL and the Company are generally required to indemnify YUM against any such tax liabilities, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company. These indemnity obligations could also discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire the Company during the relevant period.. We have limited history operating as an independent publicly traded company and our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are subject.. Prior to the separation and distribution, our financial results were included within the consolidated results of YUM, and our reporting and control systems were appropriate for those of a subsidiary of a public company. We have only recently been directly subject to reporting and other requirements of the Exchange Act, and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As an independent company, we are subject to additional reporting and other requirements, which require, among other things, annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include a report from management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report beginning with this Form 10-K. In addition, also beginning with this Form 10-K, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These and other obligations have placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting and IT resources.. 47. 2017 Form 10-K. To comply with these requirements, we have implemented additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hired additional staff. However, implementing any further necessary changes to our internal controls as a result of new business initiatives or otherwise may entail substantial costs and take significant time to complete. If we are unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Being a public company subject to additional laws, rules and regulations requires the investment of additional resources to comply with these laws, rules and regulations. In this regard, we have incurred and will continue to incur expenses related to, among other things, director and officer liability insurance, director fees, expenses associated with our SEC reporting obligations, transfer agent fees, increased auditing and legal fees and similar expenses, which expenses may be significant.. Our management has limited experience managing a public company, and regulatory compliance may divert management's attention from the day-to-day management of our business.. Our management team has limited experience managing a publicly traded company, interacting with public company investors or complying with the increasingly complex laws and requirements pertaining to public companies. These requirements include record-keeping, financial reporting and corporate governance rules and regulations and involve significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under U.S. federal securities laws and the scrutiny of securities analysts and investors. These obligations require substantial attention from our management team and could divert its attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. There can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us.. From time to time, we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. Although we believe that our existing sources of capital will permit us to finance our operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms and conditions, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future or at all will be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to:. •  our financial performance;. •  our credit ratings or absence of a credit rating;. •  the liquidity of the overall capital markets; and. •  the state of the Chinese, U.S. and global economies.. There can be no assurance, particularly as a relatively new company that currently has no credit rating, that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us or at all.. 48. 2017 Form 10-K. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased administrative and other costs by virtue of our status as an independent public company. Our historical financial information for periods prior to the distribution is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.. Our historical information for periods prior to the distribution refers to our business as operated by and integrated with YUM. Such information is derived from or based on the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of YUM. Accordingly, our historical financial information for periods prior to the distribution does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors, among others:. •  Prior to the separation, our business was operated by YUM as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. YUM or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us such as legal, treasury, accounting, internal auditing, human resources and public affairs. Our historical financial results for periods prior to the distribution reflect allocations of corporate expenses from YUM for such functions which are likely to be less than the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly traded company. As a result of the separation, our costs related to such functions previously performed by YUM may increase.. •  Historically, we shared with YUM economies of scope and scale in costs, employees and vendor relationships. Although we entered into certain agreements with YUM in connection with the separation, these arrangements may not fully capture the benefits that we enjoyed as a result of being integrated with YUM and may result in us paying higher charges than in the past for these services. These circumstances could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. •  Generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, had historically been satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of YUM. As an independent company, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, through strategic relationships or from other arrangements, which may or may not be available and may be more costly.. •  As a result of the separation, the cost of capital for our business may be higher than YUM's cost of capital prior to the separation.. Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a company separate from YUM.. The master license agreement that we entered into with YUM limits our ability to compete with YUM and contains other restrictions on our operations.. The master license agreement includes non-compete provisions pursuant to which we generally agree to not compete with YUM. The master license agreement also contains other restrictions on our operations, including restrictions on us or our affiliates from engaging in a \"competing business\" in China and other countries in which YUM operates its brands during the term of the agreement and for 12 months following the expiration, termination or transfer of the agreement or an interest in the agreement.. These restrictions could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 49. 2017 Form 10-K. YUM may fail to perform under certain transaction agreements that we entered into with it as part of the separation, and we may not have necessary systems and services in place when these transaction agreements expire.. In connection with the separation, the Company and YUM entered into several agreements, including among others a master license agreement, a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a transition services agreement and a name license agreement. The master license agreement establishes a bilateral relationship between YUM and us for an initial term of 50 years subject to renewal as described in Item 1. \"Business  -  Trademarks and Patents.\" The separation and distribution agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement, transition services agreement and name license agreement determine, among other things, the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. If YUM is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Potential indemnification liabilities owing to YUM pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The separation and distribution agreement provides for, among other things, indemnification obligations generally designed to make us financially responsible for (i) certain liabilities associated with our business; (ii) our failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any liabilities or contracts relating to the Company business, in accordance with their respective terms, whether prior to, at or after the distribution; (iii) any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other credit support agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding by YUM for our benefit, unless related to liabilities primarily associated with the YUM business; (iv) certain tax liabilities; (v) any breach by us of the separation and distribution agreement or any of the ancillary agreements or any action by us in contravention of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; and (vi) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, with respect to all information contained in the information statement relating to the distribution or any other disclosure document that describes the separation or the distribution or the Company and its subsidiaries or primarily relates to the transactions contemplated by the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions. If we are required to indemnify YUM under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities.. In connection with the separation, YUM has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that YUM's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future.. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements we entered into with YUM, YUM has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities set forth in the separation and distribution agreement. However, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that YUM has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from YUM will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that YUM will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. In addition, YUM's insurers may attempt to deny us coverage for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the separation. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from YUM or such insurance providers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 50. 2017 Form 10-K. A court could require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to YUM under the separation and distribution agreement.. Under the separation and distribution agreement and related ancillary agreements, from and after the separation, each of YUM and the Company will be generally responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses which they own and operate following the consummation of the separation. Although we do not expect to be liable for any obligations that are not allocated to us under the separation and distribution agreement, a court could disregard the allocation agreed to between the parties, and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to YUM (for example, tax and/or environmental liabilities), particularly if YUM were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform the allocated obligations.. Potential liabilities may arise due to fraudulent transfer considerations, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. In connection with the separation and distribution, YUM completed several corporate reorganization transactions involving its subsidiaries which, along with the separation and distribution, may be subject to federal and state fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws. If, under these laws, a court were to determine that, at the time of the separation and distribution, any entity involved in these reorganization transactions or the separation and distribution:. •  was insolvent;. •  was rendered insolvent by reason of the separation and distribution or a related transaction;. •  had remaining assets constituting unreasonably small capital; or. •  intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured,. then the court could void the separation and distribution, in whole or in part, as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. The court could then require our stockholders to return to YUM some or all of the shares of Company common stock issued in the distribution, or require YUM or the Company, as the case may be, to fund liabilities of the other company for the benefit of creditors. The measure of insolvency will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair value of its assets was less than the amount of its liabilities, or if it was unable to pay its liabilities as they mature.. Certain of our executive officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their previous positions at YUM.. Even though our board of directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent, and our executive officers who were employees of YUM ceased to be employees of YUM, some of our executive officers and directors continue to have a financial interest in YUM common stock and equity awards as a result of their former positions with YUM. Such ownership of YUM common stock or holding of YUM equity awards could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if the Company and YUM pursue the same corporate opportunities, have disagreements about the contracts between them or face decisions that could have different implications for the Company and YUM.. 51. 2017 Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our common stock has had relatively limited trading history, and the Company's stock price may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of Company common stock may decline or fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in the our results of operations;. •  significant liability claims, health concerns, food contamination complaints from our customers, shortages or interruptions in the availability of food or other supplies, or reports of incidents of food tampering;. •  foreign exchange issues;. •  the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies;. •  changes in the Company's stockholder base due to the separation;. •  changes in the regulatory, legal and political environment in which we operate; or. •  market conditions in the restaurant industry and the domestic and worldwide economies as a whole.. The Company cannot guarantee the timing or amount of dividends on, or repurchases of, its common stock.. We intend to retain a significant portion of our earnings to finance the operation, development and growth of our business. Our board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock of Yum China on October 4, 2017 and February 6, 2018, respectively. However, any future determination to declare and pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, actual or anticipated cash requirements, tax considerations, contractual or regulatory restrictions and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. Our board of directors has authorized a $550 million share repurchase program. However, repurchases under the program will be at the discretion of management and we cannot guarantee the timing or amount of any share repurchases. For more information, see Item 5. \"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.\". Your percentage of ownership in the Company may be diluted in the future.. In the future, your percentage ownership in the Company may be diluted because of equity awards that we intend to grant to our directors, officers and employees or otherwise as a result of equity issuances for acquisitions or capital market transactions. The Company's and certain of YUM's employees have equity awards with respect to Company common stock as a result of conversion of their YUM equity awards (in whole or in part) to Company equity awards in connection with the distribution. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on the Company's earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of Company common stock. From time to time, the Company will issue additional stock-based awards to its employees under the Company's employee benefit plans.. 52. 2017 Form 10-K. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of the Company's stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock that have such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over Company common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Company common stock. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. The interests of the Investors may differ from the interests of other holders of Company common stock, and the ownership percentage of other holders of Company common stock who received the shares of the Company's common stock in the distribution will be diluted as a result of the exercise of the warrants by the Investors.. In connection with the separation and distribution, the Investors received shares of common stock, representing approximately 4.8% of the outstanding shares of Company common stock as of December 31, 2017. In addition, the Investors hold warrants to purchase approximately 4.3% of the outstanding shares of Company common stock as of December 31, 2017. Any shares issued as a result of the exercise of the warrants will have a dilutive effect on the Company's earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of Company common stock. In addition, the Investors have the ability to acquire additional shares of Company common stock in the open market (subject to an aggregate beneficial ownership interest limit of 19.9%).. The interests of the Investors may differ from those of other holders of Company common stock in material respects. For example, the Investors may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that could enhance their respective equity portfolios, even though such transactions might involve risks to holders of Company common stock. The Investors may, from time to time in the future, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of the Company's business or are suppliers or customers of the Company. Additionally, the Investors may determine that the disposition of some or all of their interests in the Company would be beneficial to the Investors at a time when such disposition could be detrimental to the other holders of Company common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions, summarized below, that could make it more difficult to acquire control of the Company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, or to remove incumbent officers and directors. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of Delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. These provisions might discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and takeover bids that our board of directors may consider inadequate or delay acquisition attempts for us that holders of Company common stock might consider favorable.. •  Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors is divided into three classes through the date of the Company's 2019 annual meeting, with one-third of the directors being up for election at the 2018 annual meeting and all of the directors being up for election at the 2019 annual meeting.. •  Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, for so long as our board of directors is classified, stockholders may only remove our directors for cause. After the board of directors has been fully declassified, stockholders may remove our directors with or without cause.. •  Our amended and restated bylaws provide that such bylaws may be amended by our board of directors or by the affirmative vote of a majority of our stockholders entitled to vote.. 53. 2017 Form 10-K. •  Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that only our board of directors (or the chairman of our board of directors, our CEO or our secretary with the concurrence of a majority of our board of directors) may call special meetings of our stockholders.. •  Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation expressly eliminates the right of our stockholders to act by written consent. Accordingly, stockholder action must take place at the annual or a special meeting of our stockholders.. •  Our amended and restated bylaws establish advance notice procedures with respect to stockholder proposals and nomination of candidates for election as directors other than nominations made by or at the direction of our board of directors or a committee of our board of directors.. •  Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting, which means that stockholders are denied the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors.. •  Our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock, which could potentially be used to discourage attempts by third parties to obtain control of our company through a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise by making such attempts more difficult or more costly."
