[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Our business is subject to numerous risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as any of these risks could harm our business, results of operations, and future financial performance. Recovery pursuant to our insurance policies may not be available due to policy definitions of covered losses or other factors, and available insurance may be insufficient to compensate for damages, expenses, fines, penalties, and other losses we may incur as a result of these and other risks. In addition, risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or. 18. Table of Contents. that we currently deem to be immaterial may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If any of these risks occur, the trading price of our common and capital stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. If Real Estate, Rental and Mortgage Professionals, Home Builders or Other Advertisers Reduce or End Their Advertising Spending With Us or if We Are Unable to Effectively Manage Advertising Inventory or Pricing, Our Business Would Be Harmed.. Our current financial model depends on revenue generated primarily through sales of advertising products and services to real estate agents and brokerages, rental professionals, mortgage professionals, home builders, and other advertisers in categories relevant to real estate. Our ability to attract and retain advertisers, and ultimately to generate advertising revenue, depends on a number of factors, including how successfully we can:. <U+0095>   increase the number of consumers who use our products and services, provide them with tools to promote engagement between real estate market participants, and enhance their user experience so we can retain them;. <U+0095>   offer an attractive return on investment to our advertisers for their advertising spending with us;. <U+0095>   continue to develop our advertising products and services to increase adoption by and engagement with advertising customers;. <U+0095>   keep pace with and anticipate changes in technology to provide industry-leading products and services to advertisers and consumers; and. <U+0095>   compete effectively for advertising dollars with other online media companies.. Premier Agent revenue, derived from our flagship Premier Agent program and Premier Broker program, accounted for 71% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. This level of revenue concentration suggests that even modest decreases in individual agent advertiser spending across the advertiser population, caused by actual or perceived decreases to return on investment, preference for a competitive service, or other factors, could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. We do not have long-term contracts with most of our advertisers. Our advertisers could choose to modify or discontinue their relationships with us with little or no advance notice. For example, our self-serve account interface for Premier Agent advertisers allows agent advertisers to independently control the duration of their advertising commitments. We may not succeed in retaining existing advertisers' spending or capturing a greater share of such spending if we are unable to convince advertisers of the effectiveness or superiority of our products as compared to alternatives, including traditional offline advertising media such as television and newspapers. In addition, we continually evaluate and utilize various pricing and value delivery strategies in order to better align our revenue opportunities with the growth in usage of our mobile and web platforms. In 2016, for example, we implemented a new auction-based pricing method for our Premier Agent product. Future changes to our pricing methodology for advertising services or product offerings may cause advertisers to reduce or end their advertising with us or negatively impact our ability to manage revenue opportunities. If advertisers reduce or end their advertising spending with us, or if we are unable to effectively manage inventory and pricing, our advertising revenue and business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed.. If We Do Not Innovate or Provide High-Quality Products and Services on Mobile and the Web That Are Attractive to Our Users and to Our Advertisers, Our Business Could Be Harmed.. Our success depends on our continued innovation to provide new, and improve upon existing, products and services that make our mobile applications, websites and other tools useful for consumers and real estate, rental and mortgage professionals, and attractive to our advertisers. As a result, we must continually invest significant resources in research and development to improve the attractiveness and comprehensiveness of our products and. 19. Table of Contents. services, adapt to changes in technology, and support new devices and operating systems. If we are unable to provide products and services that users, including real estate professionals, want to use, on the devices they prefer, then users may become dissatisfied and use competitors' mobile applications, websites and tools. If consumers begin to access real estate through other media and we fail to innovate, our business may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to continue offering high-quality, innovative products and services, we may be unable to attract additional users and advertisers or retain our current users and advertisers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We Face Competition for Consumers in the Real Estate Category, Which Could Impair Our Ability to Attract Users of Our Mobile Applications and Websites, Which Would Harm Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.. Our business model depends on our ability to continue to attract consumers to our mobile applications and websites and enhance their engagement with our products and services in a cost-effective manner. New entrants continue to join the category at an increasingly rapid pace. Our existing and potential competitors include companies that operate, or could develop, national and local real estate, rental, new construction and mortgage mobile applications and websites. Such competitors range from companies offering traditional offline advertising media, like newspapers, to new mobile- or web-only technology companies. These companies could devote greater financial, technical and other resources than we have available to sales, advertising, or research and development, have a more accelerated time frame for deployment, or leverage their existing user bases and proprietary technologies to provide products and services that consumers might view as superior to our offerings. Any of our future or existing competitors may introduce different solutions that attract consumers or provide solutions similar to our own but with better branding or marketing resources. If we are not able to continue to attract consumers to our mobile applications and websites, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed.. We May Not Be Able to Compete Successfully Against Our Existing or Future Competitors in Attracting Advertisers, Which Could Harm Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.. We face intense competition from traditional and online or mobile media sources to attract advertisers. Online and on mobile, we compete against websites dedicated to providing real estate, rental, new construction, and mortgage information and services to real estate professionals and consumers, major internet portals, general search engines, e-commerce, and social media sites, as well as other technology and media companies. We also compete for a share of advertisers' overall marketing budgets with traditional media such as television, magazines, newspapers and home/apartment guide publications, particularly with respect to advertising dollars spent at the local level by real estate professionals to advertise their qualifications and listings. Large companies with significant brand recognition have large numbers of direct sales personnel and substantial proprietary advertising inventory and web traffic, which may provide a competitive advantage. To compete successfully for advertisers against future and existing competitors, we must continue to invest resources in developing our advertising platform and proving the effectiveness and relevance of our advertising products and services. Pressure from competitors seeking to acquire a greater share of our advertisers' overall marketing budget could adversely affect our pricing and margins, lower our revenue, and increase our research and development and marketing expenses. If we are unable to compete successfully against our existing or future competitors, our business, results of operations or financial condition would be harmed.. We Compete in a Dynamic Industry, and We May Invest Significant Resources to Pursue Strategies and Develop New Products and Services That Do Not Prove Effective.. The industry for residential real estate technology, information marketplaces, services, and advertising is dynamic, and the expectations and behaviors of consumers and professionals shift constantly and rapidly. We continue to learn a great deal about the behaviors and objectives of residential real estate market participants as the industry evolves and are investing significant resources to develop, test, and launch products and services to. 20. Table of Contents. address the needs of the market and improve the homebuying, selling, financing, building, and renting experience. Changes or additions to our products and services may not attract or engage our users, and may reduce confidence in our products and services, negatively impact the quality of our brands, upset other industry participants, expose us to increased market or legal risks, subject us to new laws and regulations, or otherwise harm our business. Our product Zillow Instant Offers, for example, which allows home sellers to receive a comparative market analysis from a Premier Agent alongside non-binding offers from institutional buyers, may not engage home sellers as we think it will. Further, if we do not realize the benefits we expect from strategic relationships we enter into, including for example, the generation of additional advertising revenue opportunities, our business could be harmed. We may not successfully anticipate or keep pace with industry changes, and we may invest considerable financial, personnel, and other resources to pursue strategies that do not, ultimately, prove effective such that our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.. We Depend on the Real Estate Industry, and Changes to That Industry, Including to Supply and Demand in the Real Estate Market or Mortgage Lending Regulation, Could Reduce the Demand for, or Restrict Our Ability to Provide, Our Products and Services.. Our financial results significantly depend on real estate market participants using our products and services. Real estate shopping patterns depend on the overall health of the real estate market. Changes to the regulation of the real estate industry, including mortgage lending, may negatively impact the prevalence of home ownership and the ability of market participants to close transactions.. Changes to the real estate industry, including to supply and demand in the real estate market, regulation of rental unit offerings, or mortgage interest rates, could reduce demand for our services. In addition, real estate, rental, and mortgage professionals are subject to comprehensive, and rapidly evolving, federal, state, and local laws and regulations which may cause them to significantly alter, decrease, or terminate their purchase of our products and services. For example, as described in Part I, Item 3  -  Legal Proceedings  -  the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (\"CFPB\") investigated our co-marketing program for real estate agent and mortgage advertisers in 2015 through 2017, and settlement discussions with the CFPB are ongoing. Seasonality, micro- and macroeconomic factors, government regulation, tax laws, and other factors may decrease consumer usage as well as sales to our advertisers and other customers, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Certain of our mortgage marketing products are operated by our wholly owned subsidiary, Zillow Group Mortgages, Inc., a licensed mortgage broker. Though we do not take mortgage applications or make loans or credit decisions in connection with loans, Zillow Group Mortgages, Inc. is subject to stringent state and federal laws and regulations and to the scrutiny of state and federal government agencies as a licensed mortgage broker. Further, due to the geographic scope of our operations and the nature of the services we provide, we may be required to obtain and maintain additional real estate brokerage and mortgage broker licenses in certain states in which we operate. In connection with such licenses, we are required to designate individual licensed brokers of record. We cannot assure you that we, or our licensed personnel, are and will remain at all times, in full compliance with state real estate and mortgage broker licensing laws and regulations and we may be subject to fines or penalties in the event of any non-compliance. If in the future a state agency were to determine that we are required to obtain a real estate or mortgage brokerage license in that state in order to receive payments from real estate or mortgage professionals, or if we lose an existing license or are otherwise found to be in violation of a law or regulation, we may be subject to fines or legal penalties or our business operations in that state may be suspended or prohibited. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may limit our ability to expand into new markets, offer new products or continue to operate in one or more of our current markets.. Natural Disasters and Catastrophic Events May Disrupt Real Estate Markets and our Business.. The occurrence of a significant natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as earthquake, hurricane, fire, flood, terrorist attack or other similar event, may damage or disrupt our operations, local and regional real. 21. Table of Contents. estate markets or economies, and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our largest offices are located in Seattle, Washington, and San Francisco, California, and an earthquake or natural disaster in either city could disrupt our engineering and sales teams and equipment critical to the operation of our business. Similarly, a significant natural disaster or other catastrophic event in any major U.S. city could negatively impact a large number of our advertisers and users, and cause a decrease in our revenue or traffic. For example, in connection with the hurricanes and wildfires that occurred during the second half of 2017, we worked closely with our Premier Agents and other advertisers in affected areas to help manage their advertising budgets, and we provided relief initiatives, which included billing credits and other forms of advertiser assistance. We also experienced a temporary decline in traffic to our mobile applications and websites from consumers in impacted areas during September 2017. Though our relief initiatives and the temporary decline in traffic did not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition for 2017, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected by natural disasters in the future.. We May Not Be Able to Maintain or Establish Relationships With Real Estate Brokerages, Real Estate Listing Aggregators, Multiple Listing Services, Property Management Companies, Home Builders and Other Third-Party Listing Providers, Which Could Limit the Information We Are Able to Provide to Our Users.. Our ability to attract users to our mobile applications, websites and other tools depends to some degree on providing timely access to comprehensive and accurate for-sale, new construction and rental listings. To provide these listings, we maintain relationships with real estate brokerages, real estate listing aggregators, multiple listing services (\"MLSs\"), property management companies, home builders, other third-party listing providers, and homeowners and their real estate agents to include listing data in our services. Many of our agreements with real estate listing providers are short-term agreements that may be terminated with limited notice. Many of our competitors and other real estate websites have similar access to MLSs and listing data, and may be able to source real estate information faster or more efficiently than we can. Another industry participant or group could create a new listings data service, which could impact the relative quality or quantity of information of our listing providers. The loss of existing relationships with MLSs and other listing providers, whether due to termination of agreements or otherwise, changes to our rights to use or timely access listing data, or an inability to continue to add new listing providers or changes to the way real estate information is shared, may negatively impact our listing data quality. This could reduce user confidence in the sale and rental data we provide and make us less popular with consumers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We May Not Be Able to Maintain or Establish Relationships With Data Providers, Which Could Limit the Information We Are Able to Provide to Our Users and Impair Our Ability to Attract or Retain Users.. We obtain real estate data, such as transaction history, property descriptions, tax-assessed value and property taxes paid, under licenses from third-party data providers. We use this data to enable the development, maintenance and improvement of our marketplace and information services, including Zestimates, Rent Zestimates and our living database of homes. We have invested significant time and resources to develop proprietary algorithms, valuation models, software and practices to use and improve on this specific data. We may be unable to renew our licenses with these data providers, enter into new data license agreements, or we may be able to do so only on terms that are less favorable to us, which could harm our ability to continue to develop, maintain and improve these information services and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If Our Data Integrity Suffers Real or Perceived Harm, Consumers and Advertisers May Decrease Use or Cease Using Our Products and Services, and We May Be Subject to Legal Liability.. Because homes represent significant investments, and many consumer decisions regarding homes are data-driven, our ability to attract and retain users and advertisers to our information products and services is dependent upon our ability to publish, and reputation for publishing, accurate and complete residential real estate information through our mobile applications and websites. As discussed above, a significant amount of the data. 22. Table of Contents. we publish on our mobile applications and websites are licensed from third parties, and we have limited ability to control the quality of the information we receive from them. We also publish a significant amount of user-generated content, and our tools and processes designed to ensure the accuracy, quality, and legality of such content may not always be effective. Data we generate independently are subject to error, unauthorized modification by way of third-party viruses, and other factors. As the volume of data we publish increases, and potential threats to data quality become more complex, the risk of harm to our data integrity also increases. If our data integrity suffers real or perceived harm, we may be subject to legal liability, and consumers and advertisers may decrease their use or cease using our products and services, which would harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Our Dedication to Making Decisions Based Primarily on the Best Interests of Consumers May Cause Us to Forgo Short-Term Gains.. Our guiding principle is to build our business by making decisions based primarily on the best interests of consumers, which we believe has been essential to our success in increasing our user growth rate and engagement and has served the long-term interests of our company and our shareholders. In the past, we have forgone, and we will in the future forgo, certain expansion or short-term revenue opportunities that we do not believe are in the best interests of consumers, even if such decisions negatively impact our short-term results of operations. In addition, our philosophy of putting consumers first may negatively impact our relationships with our existing or prospective advertisers. This could result in a loss of advertisers, which could harm our revenue and results of operations. For example, we believe that some real estate agents have chosen not to purchase our Premier Agent advertising product because we display a Zestimate on their for-sale listings. We believe, however, that it is valuable to consumers to have access to a valuation starting point on all homes and so we display a Zestimate on every home in the Zillow database for which we have sufficient data to produce the Zestimate. Our consumer focus may also negatively impact our relationships with real estate brokerages, MLSs, and other industry participants on whom we rely for listings information. Our product Zillow Instant Offers, for example, may be perceived as impinging upon the business models of real estate agents and brokerages, which may cause them to terminate their listings agreements with us or, with respect to brokerages, cease advertising with us. Such risks could have a materially negative impact on our results of operations. Our principle of making decisions based primarily on the best interests of consumers may not result in the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user traffic and engagement, business and results of operations could be harmed.. We Are Subject to Disputes Regarding the Accuracy or Display of Our Zestimates and Rent Zestimates.. We provide our users with Zestimate and Rent Zestimate home and rental valuations. Zestimates are our estimated current market values of a home based on our proprietary automated valuation models that apply advanced algorithms to analyze our data; they are not appraisals. A Rent Zestimate is our estimated current monthly rental price of a home, using similar automated valuation models that we have designed to address the unique attributes of rental homes. We are, from time to time, involved in disputes with property owners and others who disagree with the accuracy or display of a Zestimate or Rent Zestimate, and such disputes may result in costly litigation in the future. Further, revisions to our automated valuation models, or the algorithms that underlie them, poor data quality, or other factors may cause certain Zestimates or Rent Zestimates to vary from expectations for those Zestimates or Rent Zestimates. Any such dispute or variation in Zestimates or Rent Zestimates could result in distraction from our business or potentially harm our reputation and financial condition.. We Rely on Internet Search Engines and Mobile Application Marketplaces to Connect with Consumers.. We rely on organic traffic generated from search engines like Google and Bing to attract users to our websites. This organic traffic is dependent in part upon the way in which links to and information from our websites are featured on search engine result pages. The ranking and other display features of links to and information from our websites is impacted by a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control, such. 23. Table of Contents. as a change to the search engine ranking algorithm. We devote significant time and resources to digital marketing initiatives, such as search engine optimization, to improve our search result rankings and increase visits to our sites. These marketing efforts may prove unsuccessful due to a variety of factors, including increased costs to use online advertising platforms, ineffective campaigns and increased competition. We also rely on mobile application marketplaces like Apple's App Store and Google Play to connect users with our mobile applications. These marketplaces may change in a way that negatively affects the prominence of or ease with which users can access our mobile applications. Such changes to Internet search engines or mobile application marketplaces may adversely impact our ability to connect with consumers, which could have a material negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We May Be Unable to Increase Awareness of the Zillow Group Brands Cost-effectively, Which Could Harm Our Business.. We believe the Zillow Group brands, including Zillow and Trulia, are key assets of our company. Awareness and perceived quality and differentiation of the Zillow Group brands are important aspects of our efforts to attract and expand the number of consumers who use our mobile applications and websites. Should the competition and costs for awareness and brand preference increase among providers of mobile or online real estate information, we may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance the strength of our brand. We expect to continue to invest in our paid advertising to increase brand awareness and grow traffic. Paid advertising may not continue to be successful or cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance user and advertiser awareness of our brands cost-effectively, or if we are unable to recover our additional marketing and advertising costs through increased usage of our products and services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. If We Fail to Manage Our Growth and Multi-Brand Portfolio Effectively, Our Reputation, Results of Operations and Business Could Be Harmed.. We have experienced rapid and significant growth in our headcount and related operations, including as a result of the February 2015 Trulia acquisition and other acquisitions. We have also acquired or launched several new business-to-consumer and business-to-business brands in recent years, including the 2017 acquisition of New Home Feed, a listing management technology company, and launch of realestate.com, a consumer-facing website for residential real estate. This growth adds complexity to business operations, including internal controls and compliance, and places substantial demand on management and our operational infrastructure. As we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture, and successfully manage a diverse portfolio of brands. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our services and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations and overall business.. We Rely on the Performance of Highly Skilled Personnel, and if We Are Unable to Attract, Retain and Motivate Well-Qualified Employees, Our Business Could Be Harmed.. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our management and our highly skilled team of employees, including our software engineers, statisticians, marketing professionals and advertising sales staff. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. The loss of any of our senior management or key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts they have undertaken and to execute our business plan, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements. The market for highly skilled personnel is very competitive. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our. senior management or other key employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees in a cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed.. 24. Table of Contents. We May Make Acquisitions and Investments, Which Could Result in Operating Difficulties, Dilution and Other Harmful Consequences.. We continue to evaluate a wide array of potential strategic opportunities, including acquisitions and investments. For example, we acquired HREO and New Home Feed, and purchased an equity interest in a privately held corporation, in the year ended December 31, 2017. Any transactions that we enter into could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The acquisitions may not result in the intended benefits to our business, and we may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired products, technology, or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction. The process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include:. <U+0095>   diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges;. <U+0095>   consumer and industry acceptance of products and services offered by the acquired company;. <U+0095>   implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company;. <U+0095>   coordination of product, engineering and sales and marketing functions;. <U+0095>   retention of employees from the acquired company;. <U+0095>   liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition;. <U+0095>   litigation or other claims arising in connection with the acquired company; and. <U+0095>   impairment charges associated with goodwill and other acquired intangible assets.. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded a non-cash impairment for $174.0 million related to the $351.0 million indefinite-lived intangible asset that we recorded in connection with our February 2015 acquisition of Trulia for Trulia's trade names and trademarks. For additional information about the non-cash impairment, see Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our Fraud Detection Processes and Information Security Systems May Not Successfully Detect All Fraudulent Activity by Third Parties Aimed at Users of Our Mobile Applications and Websites, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Reputation and Business Results.. Third-party actors have attempted in the past, and may attempt in the future, to conduct fraudulent activity by engaging with users of our mobile applications and websites by, for example, posting fake real estate listings on our sites and attempting to solicit personal information or money from users. Though we have sophisticated fraud detection processes and have taken other measures to identify fraudulent activity on our mobile applications and websites, we may not be able to detect and prevent all such activity. Persistent or pervasive fraudulent activity may cause users and advertisers to lose trust in us and decrease or terminate their usage of our products and services, thereby harming our business and results of operations.. We Are Subject to a Number of Risks Related to the Credit Card and Debit Card Payments We Accept.. We accept payments through credit and debit card transactions. For credit and debit card payments, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time. An increase in those fees may require us to increase the prices we charge and would increase our operating expenses, either of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 25. Table of Contents. We depend on processing vendors to complete credit and debit card transactions. If we or our processing vendors fail to maintain adequate systems for the authorization and processing of credit card transactions, it could cause one or more of the major credit card companies to disallow our continued use of their payment products. In addition, if these systems fail to work properly and, as a result, we do not charge our customers' credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, revenue, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by criminals, who are becoming increasingly more sophisticated, seeking to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data are compromised due to a breach of data, we may be liable for significant costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which may result in a shift to other payment types or potential changes to our payment systems that may result in higher costs. If we fail to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions, we may face civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures, and significantly higher credit card-related costs, each of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it more difficult for us to comply. We are required to comply with payment card industry security standards. Failing to comply with those standards may violate payment card association operating rules, federal and state laws and regulations, and the terms of our contracts with payment processors. Any failure to comply fully also may subject us to fines, penalties, damages and civil liability, and may result in the loss of our ability to accept credit and debit card payments. Further, there is no guarantee that such compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment systems or the theft, loss, or misuse of data pertaining to credit and debit cards, card holders and transactions.. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate or refund rates at acceptable levels, our processing vendors may increase our transaction fees or terminate their relationships with us. Any increases in our credit and debit card fees could harm our results of operations, particularly if we elect not to raise our rates for our service to offset the increase. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major credit or debit card would significantly impair our ability to operate our business.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Technology. If Our Security Measures or Technology Systems Are Compromised, We May Be Subject to Legal Claims and Suffer Significant Losses, and Consumers May Curtail Use of Our Products and Services and Advertisers May Reduce Their Advertising on Our Mobile Applications and Websites.. Our products and services involve the transmission, processing, and/or storage of users' information, some of which may be private or include personally identifiable information such as social security numbers and credit card information. For example, our dotloop real estate transaction management software stores sensitive personal and financial information, and our Mortech mortgage product and pricing software for mortgage professionals processes social security numbers. Security breaches and administrative or technical failures could expose us to a risk of data loss or exposure, including both consumer and customer data as well as intellectual property and other confidential business information, which could result in potential significant liability and litigation. Like all mobile application and website providers, our mobile applications and websites are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, or other attacks, any of which could lead to loss of critical data or the. 26. Table of Contents. unauthorized disclosure or use of personal or other confidential information. Further, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users or advertisers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our information or our users' or advertisers' information, and our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. If we experience compromises to our security that result in the loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, our users and advertisers may lose trust in us, users may decrease the use of our mobile applications or websites or stop using our mobile applications or websites in their entirety, advertisers may decrease or stop advertising on our mobile applications or websites, and we may be subject to legal claims, government investigation and additional state and federal legal requirements.. We engage a variety of vendors to process and store certain user information, some of which may be private or include personally identifiable information. We also depend on vendors to host many of the systems and infrastructure used to provide our products and services. If our data storage vendors fail to maintain adequate information security systems and our systems or our users' information is compromised, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. A security breach at our vendor could be perceived by consumers or our customers as a breach of our systems and could result in damage to our reputation and expose us to other losses.. Further, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target, and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address all these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new users and increase engagement by existing users, cause existing users to curtail or stop use of our products or services or close their accounts, cause existing advertisers to cancel their contracts, cause us to incur significant costs to notify affected individuals and upgrade our technology, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby harming our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Any Significant Disruption in Service on Our Mobile Applications or Websites or in Our Network Could Damage Our Reputation and Brands, and Result in a Loss of Users of Our Products and Services and of Advertisers, Which Could Harm Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.. Our brand, reputation and ability to attract users and advertisers depend on the reliable performance of our network infrastructure and content delivery processes. Our mobile applications and websites are exposed to attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service attacks or similar disruptions from unauthorized use of our computer systems. We have experienced minor interruptions in these systems in the past, including server failures that temporarily slowed the performance of our mobile applications and websites, and we may experience interruptions in the future. Interruptions in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, software errors or physical or electronic break-ins, could affect the security or availability of our products and services on our mobile applications and websites and prevent or inhibit the ability of users to access our services. Since our users may rely on our products and services, including our free customer relationship management tools, for important aspects of their businesses, problems with the reliability, availability or security of our systems could damage our users' businesses, harm our reputation, result in a loss of users of our products and services and of advertisers and result in additional costs, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In October 2016, for example, traffic to our websites zillow.com and trulia.com was impacted by a distributed denial of service attack against one of our domain name system providers. This incident did not have a material adverse effect on our business, and there is no indication that our internal controls were compromised. Despite the additional network detection tools and other processes we implemented, and our continual work to install new, and upgrade existing, information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks, we cannot ensure that we will not experience similar incidents in the future.. 27. Table of Contents. Our Zillow technical infrastructure, mobile applications and websites are hosted at a third-party facility located in the Seattle area. We manage our Trulia mobile applications and website from a shared data center in Santa Clara, California. Additionally, we utilize third-party web services for cloud computing and storage to assist in service growth and redundancy.. We do not own or control the operation of certain of these facilities. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, computer viruses, earthquakes and similar events. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could result in damage to our systems and hardware or could cause them to fail completely, and our insurance may not cover such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur.. A failure of our systems at one site could result in reduced functionality for our users, and a total failure of our systems could cause our mobile applications or websites to be inaccessible. Problems faced by our third-party web-hosting providers with the telecommunications network providers with which they contract or with the systems by which they allocate capacity among their customers, including us, could adversely affect the experience of our users. Our third-party web-hosting providers could decide to close their facilities without adequate notice. Any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy reorganization, faced by our third-party web-hosting providers or any of the service providers with whom they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. If our third-party web-hosting providers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, our business could be harmed. In addition, if distribution channels for our mobile applications experience disruptions, such disruptions could adversely affect the ability of users and potential users to access or update our mobile applications, which could harm our business.. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to the future growth of our business, which may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.. We Rely Upon Amazon Web Services to Support Operation of Certain Aspects of Our Services and Any Disruption of or Interference with our Use of the Amazon Web Services Operation Could Adversely Impact Our Operations and Our Business.. Amazon Web Services (\"AWS\") provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, which is commonly referred to as a \"cloud\" computing service. Certain of our computer systems utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by AWS. Currently, we run the vast majority of computing to power our mobile applications, websites, and other technology products and services on AWS, and we store a significant amount of our users' information and our confidential business information on AWS. In light of this, coupled with the fact that we cannot easily switch our AWS operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS could adversely impact our operations and our business.. We May Be Unable to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property, Which Could Harm the Value of Our Brands and Our Business.. We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and contracts to protect our proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, the value of our brands and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. 28. Table of Contents. While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business, we cannot ensure that our operations do not, or will not, infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties or that competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent applications. We cannot ensure that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect our intellectual property, that such patents will not be challenged by third parties or found to be invalid or unenforceable, or that our patents will be effective in preventing third parties from utilizing a \"copycat\" business model to offer the same products or services. Our Zestimate home valuation, for example, which we consider to be a key competitive advantage with respect to consumer engagement, is currently protected by a patent, the loss of which could benefit comparable services provided by our competitors and result in decreased user traffic and engagement with our mobile applications and websites, thereby harming our results of operations and financial condition.. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services may be provided. The laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and, therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect intellectual property and our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could harm our competitive position. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation, even if we have agreements prohibiting such activity. Though certain of these third parties are obligated to indemnify us for breaches of our intellectual property rights, they may be unable to meet these obligations. In addition, we rely on intellectual property and technology developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties on reasonable terms or at all. Any of these events could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.. In addition, we may actively pursue entities that infringe our intellectual property, including through legal action. Taking such action may be costly, and we cannot ensure that such actions will be successful. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive for us to do business and harm our results of operations or financial condition.. Intellectual Property Disputes Are Costly to Defend and Could Harm Our Business, Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Reputation.. From time to time, we face allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. We are currently subject to intellectual property infringement claims. These claims allege, among other things, that aspects of our technology infringe upon the plaintiffs' intellectual property. If we are not successful in defending ourselves against these claims, we may be required to pay damages and may be subject to injunctions, each of which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. As we grow our business and expand our operations, we expect that we will continue to be subject to intellectual property claims and allegations. Patent and other intellectual property disputes or litigation may be protracted and expensive, and the results are difficult to predict and may require us to stop offering certain products, services or features, purchase licenses that may be expensive to procure, or modify our products or services. In addition, patent or other intellectual property disputes or litigation may result in significant settlement costs. Any of these events could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation.. In addition, we use open source software in our services and will continue to use open source software in the future. From time to time, we may be subject to claims brought against companies that incorporate open source software into their products or services, claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the source code, the open source software and/or derivative works that were developed using such software, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could also result in litigation, and we may. 29. Table of Contents. be required to purchase a costly license or remove open source software, devote additional research and development resources to changing our products or services, make generally available the source code for our proprietary technology, or waive certain of our intellectual property rights, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and results of operations.. Even if these matters do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor or without significant cash settlements, the time and resources necessary to resolve them could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation.. We May Be Unable to Continue to Use the Domain Names That We Use in Our Business, or Prevent Third Parties From Acquiring and Using Domain Names That Infringe on, Are Similar to, or Otherwise Decrease the Value of Our Brand or Our Trademarks or Service Marks.. We have registered domain names for our websites that we use in our business. If we lose the ability to use a domain name, we may incur significant expenses to market our products and services under a new domain name, which could harm our business. In addition, our competitors could attempt to capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names similar to ours. Domain names similar to ours have been registered in the United States and elsewhere. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of our brand or our trademarks or service marks. Protecting and enforcing our rights in our domain names and determining the rights of others may require litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention.. Confidentiality Agreements With Employees and Others May Not Adequately Prevent Disclosure of Trade Secrets and Other Proprietary Information.. In order to protect our technologies and strategic business and operations information, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, independent contractors, vendors, licensees, and other third parties. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. Others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases, we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Further, if our employees, contractors or other third parties with whom we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Any changes in, or unfavorable interpretations of, intellectual property laws may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could harm our business, results of operations, reputation and competitive position.. We May Not Be Able to Halt the Operations of Websites That Aggregate or Misappropriate Our Data.. From time to time, third parties have misappropriated our data through website scraping, robots or other means, and aggregated this data on their websites with data from other companies. In addition, copycat websites have misappropriated data on our network and attempted to imitate our brand or the functionality of our websites. When we have become aware of such websites, we have employed technological or legal measures in an attempt to halt their operations. We may not be able, however, to detect all such websites in a timely manner and, even if we could, technological and legal measures may be insufficient to halt their operations. In some cases, particularly in the case of websites operating outside of the United States, our available remedies may not be adequate to protect us against the impact of the operation of such websites. In addition, if such activity creates confusion among consumers or advertisers, our brands and business could be harmed. Regardless of whether we can successfully enforce our rights against the operators of these websites, any measures that we may take could require us to expend significant financial or other resources, which could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 30. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance and Legal Matters. We Are, and May in the Future Become, Subject to a Variety of International, Federal, State, and Local Laws, Many of Which Are Unsettled and Still Developing and Which Could Subject Us to Claims or Otherwise Harm Our Business.. With office locations throughout the United States and Vancouver, British Columbia, we are currently subject to a variety of, and may in the future become subject to additional, international, federal, state, and local laws that are continuously evolving and developing, including laws regarding the real estate, rental and mortgage industries, mobile- and internet-based businesses and other businesses that rely on advertising, as well as privacy and consumer protection laws, including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the CAN-SPAM Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Canadian Anti-Spam Law, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, and employment laws, including those governing wage and hour requirements. These laws are complex and can be costly to comply with, require significant management time and effort, and subject us to claims, government enforcement actions, civil and criminal liability or other remedies, including suspension of business operations. These laws may conflict with each other, and if we comply with the laws of one jurisdiction, we may find that we are violating laws of another jurisdiction.. If we are unable to comply with these laws or regulations in a cost-effective manner, we may modify impacted products and services, which could require a substantial investment and loss of revenue, or cease providing the impacted product or service altogether. If we are found to have violated laws or regulations, we may be subject to significant fines, penalties, and other losses.. We assist with the processing of customer credit card transactions, consumer credit report requests, and provide other product offerings, which results in us receiving personally identifiable information. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulation in the United States. This legislation and regulation is generally intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information, including credit card information that is collected, processed and transmitted. We could be adversely affected if government regulations require us to significantly change our business practices with respect to this type of information or if the third-parties that we engage with to provide processing and screening services violate applicable laws and regulations.. We are From Time to Time Involved In, or May In the Future be Subject to, Claims, Suits, Government Investigations, and Other Proceedings That May Result In Adverse Outcomes.. We are from time to time involved in, or may in the future be subject to, claims, suits, government investigations, and proceedings arising from our business, including actions with respect to intellectual property claims, privacy, consumer protection, information security, data protection or law enforcement matters, tax matters, labor and employment claims, commercial claims, as well as actions involving content generated by our users, shareholder derivative actions, purported class action lawsuits, and other matters, including those matters described in Part I, Item 3. Such claims, suits, government investigations, and proceedings are inherently uncertain, and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, any such legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel, and other factors. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in reputational harm, liability, penalties, or sanctions, as well as judgments, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, or requiring a change in our business practices, products or technologies, which could in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. The Requirements of Being a Public Company May Strain Our Resources and Distract Our Management, Which Could Make It Difficult to Manage Our Business.. We are required to comply with various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those required by the SEC. Complying with these reporting and other regulatory requirements can be time-consuming and results in increased costs to us and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 31. Table of Contents. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These requirements could strain our systems and resources. The Exchange Act also requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Exchange Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have committed significant resources, hired additional staff and provided additional management oversight. We have implemented additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. For example, new revenue recognition guidance was issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), which we adopted on January 1, 2018, requiring additional personnel time and other costs to implement. In addition, we expect to invest additional personnel time and other costs to implement new guidance on leases, which we plan to adopt on January 1, 2019. Sustaining our growth will require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to identify new professionals to join us and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. These activities may divert management's attention from other business concerns and could make it difficult to manage our business, which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, if we identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the market price of our capital stock to decline.. Risks Related to Our Financial Statements. We Incurred Significant Operating Losses in the Past and We May Not Be Able to Generate Sufficient Revenue to Be Profitable Over the Long Term.. We have incurred significant net operating losses in the past and, as of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $592.2 million. Although we have experienced significant growth in revenue, our revenue growth rate may decline in the future as the result of a variety of factors, including the maturation of our business. At the same time, we also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to expend substantial financial resources to develop and expand our business, including on:. <U+0095>   product development;. <U+0095>   sales and marketing;. <U+0095>   technology infrastructure;. <U+0095>   strategic opportunities, including commercial relationships and acquisitions; and. <U+0095>   general and administrative expenses, including legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company.. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. If we fail to continue to grow our revenue and overall business and to manage our expenses, we may incur significant losses in the future and not be able to maintain profitability.. Servicing Our Debt Requires a Significant Amount of Cash, and We May Not Have Sufficient Cash Flow From Our Business to Pay Our Substantial Debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the remaining outstanding $10.1 million aggregate principal under Trulia's Convertible Senior Notes due in 2020 (the \"2020 Notes\") and our Convertible Senior Notes due in 2021 (the \"2021 Notes\"), depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, industry, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will. 32. Table of Contents. depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. We Rely on Assumptions, Estimates, and Business Data to Calculate our Key Performance Indicators and Other Business Metrics, and Real or Perceived Inaccuracies in These Metrics May Harm our Reputation and Negatively Affect our Business.. Certain of our performance metrics are calculated using third party applications or internal company data that have not been independently verified. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring such information. For example, our measurement of unique users and visits may be affected by applications that automatically contact our servers to access our mobile applications and websites with no user action involved, and this activity can cause our system to count the user associated with such a device as a unique user or as a visit on the day such contact occurs.. We regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our performance metrics to improve accuracy. Our measure of certain metrics may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly-titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology. If real estate professionals, advertisers or investors do not perceive our unique users or visits to be an accurate representation of our user engagement, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our unique users or visits, our reputation may be harmed, and real estate professionals and advertisers may be less willing to allocate their resources to our products and services, which could negatively affect our business and operating results.. We Expect Our Results of Operations to Fluctuate on a Quarterly and Annual Basis.. Our revenue and results of operations could vary significantly from period to period and may fail to match expectations as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are outside our control. The other risk factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results. In addition, our results may fluctuate as a result of fluctuations in the quantity of, and the price at which we are able to sell, our remnant advertising, seasonal variances of home sales, which historically peak in the spring and summer seasons, and the size and seasonal variability of our advertisers' marketing budgets. As a result of the potential variations in our revenue and results of operations, period-to-period comparisons may not be meaningful and the results of any one period should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. In addition, our results of operations may not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts who follow us, which may adversely affect our stock price.. We Could Be Subject to Additional Income Tax Liabilities and Our Ability to Use Our Net Operating Loss Carryforwards and Certain Other Tax Attributes May Be Limited.. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States and in Canada. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating these taxes. Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as entry into new businesses and geographies, changes to our existing business and operations, acquisitions and investments and how they are financed, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations. For example, On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including but not limited to: (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent; (2) requiring companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain untaxed earnings of foreign subsidiaries; (3) generally eliminating U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign. 33. Table of Contents. subsidiaries; (4) eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax (\"AMT\") and how AMT credits are utilized; and (5) changing rules related to uses and limitations of net operating loss carryforwards created in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017.. The Tax Act significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations. The Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies have not implemented all relevant regulations or issued substantive guidance to-date and could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our current interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1,014.0 million, state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $21.4 million (tax effected), and net tax credit carryforwards of approximately $35.8 million. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income or income tax liability may be limited. In general, an \"ownership change\" will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by certain \"5-percent shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. In connection with Zillow's August 2013 public offering of Zillow Class A Common stock, Zillow experienced an ownership change that triggered Section 382 and 383, which may limit our ability to utilize net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. In connection with Zillow Group's February 2015 acquisition of Trulia, Trulia experienced an ownership change that triggered Section 382 and 383, which may limit Zillow Group's ability to utilize Trulia's net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. If we experience one or more ownership changes in the future as a result of future transactions in our stock, our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. Furthermore, our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards of any companies that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may be limited. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards, other pre-change tax attributes, or net operating loss carryforwards of any acquired companies to offset our federal taxable income or reduce our federal income tax liability may be subject to limitation.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common and Capital Stock and Debt Instruments. Our Class A Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Prices May Be Volatile, and the Value of an Investment in Our Class A Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock May Decline.. An active, liquid and orderly market for our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock. The trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock has at times experienced price volatility and may continue to be volatile. For example, since shares of our Class A common stock began trading in February 2015, the closing price of our Class A common stock has ranged from $17.06 per share to $50.69 per share (adjusted for the August 2015 stock split effected in the form of a dividend) through December 31, 2017. Since shares of our Class C capital stock began trading in August 2015, the closing price of our Class C capital stock has ranged from $16.01 per share to $51.04 per share through December 31, 2017. The market price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many of the risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and others beyond our control, including:. <U+0095>   actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and results of operations;. <U+0095>   changes in projected operational and financial results;. 34. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   addition or loss of significant customers;. <U+0095>   actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to that of our competitors;. <U+0095>   announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital-raising activities or commitments;. <U+0095>   announcements of technological innovations or new offerings by us or our competitors;. <U+0095>   additions or departures of key personnel;. <U+0095>   changes in laws or regulations applicable to our services;. <U+0095>   fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;. <U+0095>   issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts;. <U+0095>   sales of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock by us or our shareholders;. <U+0095>   issuances of our Class A common stock upon conversion of the 2020 Notes and issuances of our Class C capital stock upon conversion of our 2021 Notes;. <U+0095>   stock price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; and. <U+0095>   general economic and market conditions.. Furthermore, the stock markets in recent years have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of the equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We have in the past been and are currently the target of this type of litigation, and we may continue to be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Past, current, and future securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.. The Structure of Our Capital Stock as Contained in Our Charter Documents Has the Effect of Concentrating Voting Control With Our Founders, and Limits Your Ability to Influence Corporate Matters.. Since Zillow Group's inception, our capital structure has included authorized Class A common stock and authorized Class B common stock. Our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote per share, and our Class B common stock entitles its holder to 10 votes per share. All shares of Class B common stock have been and are held or controlled by our founders, Richard Barton and Lloyd Frink. As of December 31, 2017, Mr. Barton's holdings and Mr. Frink's holdings represented approximately 31.8% and 20.7%, respectively, of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock.. For the foreseeable future, Mr. Barton and Mr. Frink will therefore have significant control over our management and affairs and will be able to control most matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election or removal (with or without cause) of directors and the approval of any significant corporate transaction, such as a merger or other sale of us or our assets. In addition, because our Class C capital stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law or as expressly provided in our amended and restated articles of incorporation), the issuance of Class C capital stock (instead of Class A common stock) could prolong the duration of Mr. Barton's and Mr. Frink's relative ownership of our voting power. This concentrated control could delay, defer or prevent a change of control, merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us that you, as a shareholder, may otherwise support. This concentrated control could also discourage a potential investor from acquiring our Class A common stock or Class C capital stock due to the limited voting power of such stock relative to the Class B common stock and might harm the market price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock.. 35. Table of Contents. Future Sales of Our Stock in the Public Market Could Cause Our Stock Price to Decline.. Our Class A common stock began trading on The Nasdaq Global Select Market on February 18, 2015, and our Class C capital stock began trading on The Nasdaq Global Select Market on August 17, 2015. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares or the availability of shares for sale will have on the prevailing trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock from time to time. There is currently no contractual restriction on our ability to issue additional shares, and all of our outstanding shares are generally freely tradable, except for shares held by our \"affiliates\" as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, which may be sold in compliance with the volume restrictions of Rule 144. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, we may in the future issue shares of Class C capital stock for financings, acquisitions or equity incentives. If we issue shares of Class C capital stock in the future, such issuances would have a dilutive effect on the economic interest of our Class A common stock.. If Securities or Industry Analysts Do Not Publish Research or Publish Inaccurate or Unfavorable Research About Our Business, Our Class A Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Price and Trading Volume Could Decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about our company. If few or no securities or industry analysts cover our company, the market price of our publicly-traded stock could be negatively impacted. If securities or industry analysts cover us and if one or more of such analysts downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of the analysts covering us fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decline, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. If We Issue Additional Equity Securities or Issue Additional Convertible Debt to Raise Capital, It May Have a Dilutive Effect on Shareholders' Investment.. If we raise additional capital through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of us. Moreover, any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock.. The Capped Call Transactions May Affect the Value of Our 2021 Notes and Our Class C Capital Stock.. In connection with the pricing of the 2021 Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and certain other financial institutions (the \"option counterparties\"). The capped call transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the 2021 Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted notes, as the case may be. In addition, the capped call transactions provide for us to elect, subject to certain conditions, for the capped call transactions to remain outstanding (with certain modifications) following our election to redeem the 2021 Notes, notwithstanding any conversions of notes in connection with such redemption.. In addition, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our Class C capital stock and/or purchasing or selling our Class C capital stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the 2021 Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of 2021 Notes or in connection with any repurchase of 2021 Notes by us). This activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our Class C capital stock or the 2021 Notes.. 36. Table of Contents. Anti-Takeover Provisions in Our Charter Documents and Under Washington Law Could Make an Acquisition of Us More Difficult, Limit Attempts by Shareholders to Replace or Remove Our Management and Affect the Market Price of Our Stock.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as amended and restated, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws include provisions, some of which will become effective only after the date, which we refer to as the threshold date, on which the Class B common stock controlled by our founders represents less than 7% of the aggregate number of shares of our outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock, that:. <U+0095>   set forth the structure of our capital stock, which concentrates voting control of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders with the holders of our Class B common stock, which is held or controlled by our founders;. <U+0095>   authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by our shareholders, up to 30,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, subject, prior to the threshold date, to the approval rights of the holders of our Class B common stock;. <U+0095>   establish that our board of directors will be divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving three-year staggered terms;. <U+0095>   prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors;. <U+0095>   provide that, after the threshold date, our directors may be removed only for cause;. <U+0095>   provide that, after the threshold date, vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office or by the sole remaining director;. <U+0095>   provide that only our board of directors may change the board's size;. <U+0095>   specify that special meetings of our shareholders can be called only by the chair of our board of directors, our board of directors, our chief executive officer, our president or, prior to the threshold date, holders of at least 25% of all the votes entitled to be cast on any issue proposed to be considered at any such special meeting;. <U+0095>   establish an advance notice procedure for shareholder proposals to be brought before a meeting of shareholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors;. <U+0095>   require the approval of our board of directors or the holders of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast by shareholders generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single group, to amend or repeal our bylaws; and. <U+0095>   require the approval of not less than two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on a proposed amendment, voting together as a single group, to amend certain provisions of our articles of incorporation.. Prior to the threshold date, our directors can be removed with or without cause by holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock, voting together as a single group, and vacancies on the board of directors may be filled by such shareholders, voting together as a single group. Given the structure of our capital stock, our founders, Richard Barton and Lloyd Frink, who hold or control our Class B common stock, will have the ability for the foreseeable future to control these shareholder actions. See the risk factor above titled \"The Structure of Our Capital Stock as Contained in Our Charter Documents Has the Effect of Concentrating Voting Control With our Founders, and Limits Your Ability to Influence Corporate Matters.\". The provisions described above, after the threshold date, may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board of directors, which board is responsible for appointing our management. In. 37. Table of Contents. addition, because we are incorporated in the State of Washington, we are governed by the provisions of Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act, which prohibits certain business combinations between us and certain significant shareholders unless specified conditions are met. These provisions may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, even if this change of control would benefit our shareholders."
