[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict.  Our business, financial condition and results of. 13. operations may be impacted by a number of factors.  In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations, including causing our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.  The following list of significant risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may materially adversely affect us in future periods.  You should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities.. We may experience a disruption of our business activities due to the transition to a new Chief Executive Officer.. Effective as of December 19, 2017, our Board of Directors appointed Bryan C. Hanson as President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors.  Recently hired executives may view the business differently than prior members of management, and over time may make changes to our strategic focus, operations, business plans, existing personnel and their responsibilities.  We can give no assurances that we will be able to properly manage any such shift in focus, or that any changes to our business would ultimately prove successful.  In addition, leadership transitions and management changes can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause uncertainty or a disruption to our business or may increase the likelihood of turnover in key officers and employees.  Our success depends in part on having a successful leadership team.  If we cannot effectively manage leadership transitions and management changes, it could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and pursue our business goals.  We can give no assurances that we will be able to retain the services of any of our current executives or other key employees.  If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees, retaining and motivating existing employees or integrating new executives and employees, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. We incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the Biomet and LDR mergers and may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations.. We incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the Biomet merger in 2015 and the LDR Holding Corporation (\"LDR\") merger in 2016.  At December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was $10.1 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2014.  We funded the cash portion of the Biomet merger consideration, the pay-off of certain indebtedness of Biomet and the payment of transaction-related expenses through a combination of available cash-on-hand and proceeds from debt financings, including proceeds from a $7.65 billion issuance of senior unsecured notes in March 2015 and borrowings of $3.0 billion under a five-year term loan (\"U.S. Term Loan A\") in June 2015.  In addition, in September 2016, we borrowed $750 million under a three-year unsecured term loan facility and utilized these funds to repay outstanding borrowings under our revolving facility incurred in connection with the acquisition of LDR.  Also, in December 2016, we issued \2001.0 billion aggregate principal amount of Euro-denominated senior notes and used the proceeds to repay a portion of the U.S. dollar-denominated senior notes issued in connection with the Biomet merger.  Further, in September 2017, we borrowed 21.3 billion Japanese Yen under a five-year term loan and utilized these funds to pay down a portion of U.S. Term Loan A.  As of December 31, 2017, our debt service obligations, comprised of principal and interest (excluding capital leases and equipment notes), during the next 12 months are expected to be $1,522.4 million.  As a result of the increase in our debt, demands on our cash resources have increased.  The increased level of debt could, among other things:. •  require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements;. •  limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. •  restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities;. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. •  adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing our indebtedness might increase and our ability to obtain surety bonds could be impaired;. 14. •  adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and. •  limit our ability to apply proceeds from a future offering or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt.. If we fail to comply with the terms of the DPA that we entered into in January 2017, we may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs.. On January 12, 2017, we resolved previously-disclosed FCPA matters involving Biomet and certain of its subsidiaries.  As part of the settlement, we entered into a DPA with the DOJ.  A copy of the DPA is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this report.. If we do not comply with the terms of the DPA, we could be subject to prosecution for violating the internal controls provisions of the FCPA and the conduct of Biomet and its subsidiaries described in the DPA, which conduct pre-dated our acquisition of Biomet, as well as any new or continuing violations.  We could also be subject to exclusion by OIG-HHS from participation in federal healthcare programs, including Medicaid and Medicare.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to effectively integrate acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected cost savings or profitability from our acquisitions.. Our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:. •  unforeseen difficulties in integrating personnel and sales forces, operations, manufacturing, logistics, research and development, information technology, communications, purchasing, accounting, marketing, administration and other systems and processes;. •  difficulties harmonizing and optimizing quality systems and operations;. •  diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations;. •  unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions where we do not have prior experience;. •  potential loss of key employees;. •  unforeseen liabilities associated with businesses acquired; and. •  inability to generate sufficient revenue or realize sufficient cost savings to offset acquisition or investment costs.. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate.  These risks would likely be greater in the case of larger acquisitions.. Interruption of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have manufacturing sites all over the world.  In some instances, however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants.  Damage to one or more of our facilities from weather or natural disaster-related events, such as the recent hurricanes that affected our employees and operations at our Guaynabo, Puerto Rico and Ponce, Puerto Rico manufacturing facilities, or issues in our manufacturing arising from failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the QSR and Good Manufacturing Practice requirements, equipment breakdown or malfunction or other factors could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products.  In the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing affected products or to meet customer demand.  In the event of a significant interruption, for example, as a result of a failure to follow regulatory protocols and procedures, we may experience lengthy delays in resuming production of affected products due primarily to the need for regulatory approvals.  As a result, we may experience loss of market share, which we may be unable to recapture, and harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Disruptions in the supply of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We purchase many of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products from third-party vendors and we outsource some key manufacturing activities.  Certain of these materials and components and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources due to quality considerations, expertise, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements.  In certain cases, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement vendors for such materials or components or outsourced activities in a timely or cost effective manner, largely as a result of FDA regulations that require validation of materials and components prior to their use in our products and the complex nature of our and many of our vendors' manufacturing processes.  A reduction or interruption in the supply of materials or components used in manufacturing our products; an inability to timely develop and validate alternative sources if required; or a significant increase in the price of such materials or components could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, we are subject to the SEC's rule regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as \"conflict minerals\" (tantalum, tin and tungsten (or their ores) and gold), which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries.  This rule could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, which could adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability.  In addition, we are incurring additional costs to comply with this rule, including costs related to determining the source of any relevant minerals and metals used in our products.  We have a complex supply chain and we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals and metals used in our products through our due diligence procedures.  As a result, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders.. We are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The products we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities.  The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market these products can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all.  Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs.. Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations and other local, state and foreign requirements.  Compliance with these requirements, including the QSR, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulators, which may result in observations (such as on Form 483), and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action, or other forms of enforcement.  If the FDA or another regulator were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, they could ban such products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of payment of such products, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications, refuse to provide certificates for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health.  The FDA or other regulators may also impose operating restrictions, including a ceasing of operations, on one or more facilities, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to our products and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us.  The FDA or other regulators could also issue a corporate warning letter, a recidivist warning letter, a consent decree of permanent injunction, and/or recommend prosecution.  Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In 2012, we received a warning letter from the FDA citing concerns relating to certain processes pertaining to products manufactured at our Ponce, Puerto Rico manufacturing facility.  In May 2016, we received a warning letter from the FDA related to observed non-conformities with current good manufacturing practice requirements of the QSR at our facility in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.  As of December 31, 2017, these warning letters remained pending.  Until the violations are corrected, we may become subject to additional regulatory action by the FDA as described above, the FDA may refuse to grant premarket approval applications and/or the FDA may refuse to grant export certificates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results. 16. of operations.  Additional information regarding these and other FDA regulatory matters can be found in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the International Standards Organization.  If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed.. If we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse or data privacy and security laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our industry is subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal Stark law, the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act and similar state and foreign laws.  In addition, we are subject to various federal and foreign laws concerning anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters, sales to countries or persons subject to economic sanctions and other matters affecting our international operations.  Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the U.S., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs.  These laws are administered by, among others, the DOJ, the OIG-HHS, the SEC, the OFAC, the Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce and state attorneys general.. We are also subject to federal, state and international data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure and protection of health-related and other personal information.  Certain of our affiliates are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under HIPAA.  The FDA also has issued guidance to which we may be subject concerning data security for medical devices.. International data protection laws, including the EU Data Protection Directive and member state implementing legislation, may also apply to some of our operations and restrict our ability to collect, analyze and transfer EU personal data.  Moreover, the General Data Protection Regulation, an EU-wide regulation that will be fully enforceable by May 25, 2018, will introduce new data protection requirements in the EU and substantial fines for violations of the data protection rules.. The interpretation and enforcement of the laws and regulations described above are uncertain and subject to change.  Failure to comply with U.S. and international data protection laws and regulations could result in government enforcement actions (which could include civil and/or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity and could negatively affect our operating results and business.. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to effectively maintain or protect our information systems or data, including from data breaches, our business could be adversely affected.. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure.  As a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, including the Biomet merger, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities.  We also have outsourced elements of our operations to third parties, and, as a result, we manage a number of third-party vendors who may or could have access to our confidential information.  Our information systems, and those of third-party vendors with whom we contract, require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and the increasing need to protect patient and customer information.  In addition, given their size and complexity, these systems could be vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, third-party vendors and/or business partners, or from cyber-attacks by malicious third parties attempting to gain unauthorized access to our products, systems or confidential information (including, but not limited to, intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information).  Cyber-attacks, such as those involving the deployment of malware, are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity and have become increasingly difficult to detect.  If we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could:. •  lose existing customers;. •  have difficulty attracting new customers;. •  have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing;. 17. •  have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud;. •  have disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals;. •  have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed;. •  incur increased operating expenses;. •  incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach; or. •  suffer other adverse consequences.. While we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our activities related to consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and implementing new systems will be successful.  Despite our efforts, we cannot assure you that cyber-attacks or data breaches will not occur or that systems issues will not arise in the future.  Any significant breakdown, intrusion, breach, interruption, corruption or destruction of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation.. Our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors.. We operate in a highly competitive environment.  Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies.  To remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. Competition is primarily on the basis of:. •  pricing;. •  technology;. •  innovation;. •  quality;. •  reputation; and. •  customer service.. In markets outside of the U.S., other factors influence competition as well, including:. •  local distribution systems;. •  complex regulatory environments; and. •  differing medical philosophies and product preferences.. Our competitors may:. •  have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us;. •  respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies;. •  undertake more extensive marketing campaigns;. •  adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or. •  be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners.. Any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products.. If we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline.. Our marketing success in the U.S. and abroad depends significantly upon our agents' and distributors' sales and service expertise in the marketplace.  Many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing. 18. and potential customers because of the agents' detailed knowledge of products and instruments.  A loss of a significant number of our agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline.. Demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of:. •  evolving customer needs;. •  changing demographics;. •  slowing industry growth rates;. •  declines in the musculoskeletal implant market;. •  the introduction of new products and technologies;. •  evolving surgical philosophies; and. •  evolving industry standards.. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time.  If that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer.  The success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to:. •  properly identify and anticipate customer needs;. •  commercialize new products in a timely manner;. •  manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time;. •  differentiate our offerings from competitors' offerings;. •  achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products;. •  satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures;. •  innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and. •  provide adequate medical education relating to new products.. In addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors:. •  entrenched patterns of clinical practice;. •  the need for regulatory clearance; and. •  uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement.. Moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production.  In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features.. If third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed.. We sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs.  These third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-. 19. effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication.  Third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices.. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services.  If third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.. We have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets.  If key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected.. The ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs.  Group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization's affiliated hospitals and other members.  If we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer's products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement.  Our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.. We conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the U.S., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs.. We sell our products in more than 100 countries and derived approximately 40 percent of our net sales in 2017 from outside the U.S.  We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations.  Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including:. •  changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs;. •  unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements;. •  differing local product preferences and product requirements;. •  fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. •  diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S.;. •  trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs;. •  foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.;. •  complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws;. •  extraterritorial effects of U.S. laws such as the FCPA;. •  effects of foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the UK Bribery Act;. •  difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations;. •  labor force instability;. •  potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and. •  political and economic instability.. Violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation.. 20. We may have additional tax liabilities.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions.  Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes.  In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  We regularly are under audit by tax authorities.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals.  The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was signed into law on December 22, 2017 (the \"2017 Tax Act\"), with significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system, including a federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35 percent to 21 percent, limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, and the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system.  The U.S. Treasury has provided limited guidance on aspects of the 2017 Tax Act, and we anticipate further guidance will be provided in the future.  On December 22, 2017, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\"), expressing its views on the application of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 740, Income Taxes, in the reporting period that includes December 22, 2017.  For the financial statements that include the reporting period in which the 2017 Tax Act was enacted, SAB 118 provides a provisional approach to reflect the income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act.  The actual effects of the 2017 Tax Act and the final amounts recorded may differ materially from our current estimates of provisional amounts included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Further, our tax expense and cash flow could be materially impacted as we finalize the financial accounting for the 2017 Tax Act, and incorporate future regulatory guidance provided by the U.S. Treasury.. We are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks.. A substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in Europe and Japan.  The U.S. Dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations.  Significant increases in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro or the Japanese Yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective.. Pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices.  In the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients.  As discussed further in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, we are defending product liability lawsuits relating to the Durom® Acetabular Component (\"Durom Cup\"), certain products within the NexGen Knee System, and the M2a-MagnumTM hip system.  The majority of the Durom Cup cases are pending in a federal Multidistrict Litigation (\"MDL\") in the District of New Jersey (In Re: Zimmer Durom Hip Cup Products Liability Litigation); the majority of the NexGen Knee System cases are pending in a federal MDL in the Northern District of Illinois (In Re: Zimmer NexGen Knee Implant Products Liability Litigation); and the majority of the M2a-Magnum hip system cases are pending in a federal MDL in the Northern District of Indiana (In Re: Biomet M2a Magnum Hip Implant Products Liability Litigation).  We are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products.  Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to defend.  Product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers.. Although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, we have substantial self-insured retention amounts that we must pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to pay for defense costs, or to satisfy a judgment or settlement.  Furthermore, even if any product liability loss is covered by our insurance, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies and we would have to pay the amount of any defense costs, settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits.  Product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights, and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others.. Claims of intellectual property infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights are commonplace in our industry and are frequently time consuming and costly.  At any given time, we may be involved as either plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time.  While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent and other intellectual property litigation, such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business.  We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and non-disclosure and other agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so.  While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents, trade secrets and other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property.  Further, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors, and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage.  Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all.. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries.  If we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue.. We also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with security measures, including the use of non-disclosure and other agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators.  We cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge.. We are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes.. In addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial and securities litigation and claims and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business.  For example, as discussed further in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, we are defending a purported class action lawsuit, Shah v. Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. et al., filed against us, certain of our current and former officers, certain current and former members of our Board of Directors, and certain former stockholders of ours who sold shares of our common stock in secondary public offerings in 2016, alleging that we and other defendants violated federal securities laws by making materially false and/or misleading statements and/or omissions about our compliance with FDA regulations and our ability to continue to accelerate our organic revenue growth rate in the second half of 2016.  Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future.  Given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome.  We could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period.. Future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results.. Our assets include intangible assets, primarily goodwill.  At December 31, 2017, we had $10.7 billion in goodwill.  The goodwill results from our acquisition activity, including the Biomet and LDR mergers, and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired.  We assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable.  As discussed further in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $304.7 million in 2017.  If the operating performance at one or more of our business units falls significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions or. 22. future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, we could be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges.  Any write-off of a material portion of our unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations.. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016.  While the particular material weakness has been remediated as of December 31, 2017, additional material weaknesses or relapses of this material weakness could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements.. We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act.  As discussed in Part II, Item 9A of this report, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016 related to management's controls over accounting for income taxes.  A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  During 2017, we executed our remediation plans to address the material weakness.  However, if the remedial measures are not adhered to or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results.. Developments relating to the UK's referendum vote in favor of leaving the EU could adversely affect us.. The UK held a referendum in June 2016 in which voters approved the UK's voluntary exit from the EU, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\".  The effects of Brexit are expected to be far-reaching.  Brexit and the perceptions as to its impact may adversely affect business activity and economic conditions in Europe and globally and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets.  Brexit could also have the effect of disrupting the free movement of goods, services and people between the UK and the EU; however, the full effects of Brexit are uncertain and will depend on any agreements the UK may make to retain access to EU markets.  Brexit could also lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the UK determines which EU laws to replace or replicate.  Also, as a result of Brexit, other European countries may seek to conduct referenda with respect to their continuing membership with the EU.  Given these possibilities and others we may not anticipate, as well as the lack of comparable precedent, the full extent to which our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by Brexit is uncertain.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control.. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Restated By-Laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders.. These provisions provide for, among other things:. •  the ability of our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock without further stockholder action;. •  advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings;. •  certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings; and. •  the prohibition on engaging in a \"business combination\" with an \"interested stockholder\" for three years after the time at which a person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met, as set forth in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders.  As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares.. 23. Our Restated By-Laws designate certain Delaware courts as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees.. Our Restated By-Laws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, a state court located within the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located in the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for any stockholder (including any beneficial owner) to bring (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or our Restated Certificate of Incorporation or our Restated By-Laws, as either may be amended from time to time, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine.  Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions.  This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees.  Alternatively, if a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations."
