[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company's growth strategy is driven by key factors while adhering to defined risk parameters. The key elements of Zions' strategy reflect its prudent risk-taking philosophy. The Company generates revenue by taking prudent and appropriately priced risks. These factors are outlined in the Company's Risk Appetite Framework.. The Company's Board of Directors has established a Risk Oversight Committee of the Board, approved an Enterprise Risk Management Framework, and appointed an Enterprise Risk Management Committee (\"ERMC\") to oversee and implement the Framework. The ERMC is comprised of senior management of the Company and is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer. The Company's most significant risk exposure has traditionally come from the acceptance of credit risk inherent in prudent extension of credit to relationship customers. In addition to credit risk, these committees also monitor the following level one risk areas: market and interest rate risk, liquidity risk, strategic/business risk, operational/technology risk, model risk, capital/financial reporting risk, legal/compliance risk (including regulatory risk), and reputational risk as outlined in the Company's risk taxonomy. In 2017, the Company also designated cyber risk a level one risk in its risk taxonomy, which places it at the highest level of oversight with its other top risks. Additional governance and oversight includes Board-approved policies and management committees with direct focus on these specific risk categories. Incorporated into each of these level one risks mentioned previously is third party vendor risk, which the Company views as critical in the management and oversight of vendor management.. Although not comprehensive, the following describes several risk factors that are significant to the Company:. Credit Risk. Credit quality has adversely affected us in the past and may adversely affect us in the future.. Credit risk is one of our most significant risks. A decline in the strength of the U.S. economy in general or the local economies in which we conduct operations could result in, among other things, deterioration in credit quality and/or reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses (\"ALLL\").. We have concentrations of risk in our loan portfolio, including loans secured by real estate, leveraged and enterprise value lending, and oil and gas-related lending, which may have unique risk characteristics that may adversely affect our results. While oil and gas prices have stabilized over the last year and our lending exposure to this segment has been reduced, the oil and gas industry is still subject to volatility.. Concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect the Company. Concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to the Company due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. Counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk.. We engage in commercial construction and land acquisition and development lending, as well as commercial term lending, primarily in our western states footprint. The Company, as a whole, has relatively larger concentrations of such lending than many other peer institutions. In addition, we have a concentration in oil and gas-related lending, primarily in Texas. Both commercial real estate (\"CRE\") and oil and gas-related lending are subject to specific. 16. Table of Contents. risks, including volatility and potential significant and prolonged declines in collateral-values and activity levels. In addition, our real estate lending is concentrated in the western states, and values there may behave differently than in other parts of the United States. We may have other unidentified concentrated or correlated risks in our loan portfolio.. Our business is highly correlated to local economic conditions in a specific geographic region of the United States.. As a regional bank holding company, the Company provides a full range of banking and related services through its local management teams and unique brands in Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming. Approximately 76% of the Company's total net interest income relates to our banking operations in Utah, Texas, and California for the years ended December 31, 2017, and December 31, 2016, respectively. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. Accordingly, adverse economic conditions affecting these three states in particular could significantly affect our consolidated operations and financial results. For example, our credit risk could be elevated to the extent that our lending practices in these three states focus on borrowers or groups of borrowers with similar economic characteristics, which are similarly affected by the same adverse economic events. At December 31, 2017, loan balances associated with our banking operations in Utah, Texas, and California comprised 80% of the Company's commercial lending portfolio, 74% of the CRE lending portfolio, and 71% of the consumer lending portfolio.. Loans originated by our banking operations in Utah, Texas, and California are primarily to borrowers in those respective states, with the exception of the National Real Estate group, which co-originates or purchases primarily owner-occupied first-lien CRE loans from financial institutions throughout the country.. We have been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions.. Adverse economic conditions negatively affect the Company's assets, including its loan and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. The most recent financial crisis resulted in significant regulatory changes that continue to affect the Company. Although economic conditions have improved since the most recent financial crisis, it is possible that economic conditions may weaken. Economic and fiscal conditions in the United States and other countries may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic and market conditions faced by the Company and its customers. Any sustained weakness or further weakening in economic conditions would adversely affect the Company.. Market and Interest Rate Risks. Failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk and prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect us.. Net interest income is the largest component of the Company's revenue. Interest rate risk is managed by the Asset Liability Management Committee, which is established by the Company's Board of Directors. Failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect the Company. Factors beyond the Company's control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the Company's risk. These factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates resulting from general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the FRB.. The Company remains in an \"asset-sensitive\" interest rate risk position, which means that net interest income would be expected to increase if interest rates increase, and to decline if interest rates decrease. Most recently, the FRB decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 1.25% to 1.5%, and indicated that it will determine the timing and size of future rate adjustments by assessing realized and expected economic conditions relative to the objectives of maximum employment and 2% inflation.. Financial market participants have recently contemplated the possibility of negative interest rates. With the exception of brief money market disruptions in which some U.S. Treasury bills traded at negative rates, the U.S. has. 17. Table of Contents. not previously experienced a negative rate environment, although other developed economies have had prolonged periods of negative rates. Therefore, there are many unknown factors which could impact the Company in a negative rate environment. The ability to effectively charge customers interest on deposits will be determined largely by competition for deposits, but the Company's deposit systems may require modification to allow for negative deposit rates. Asset allocation strategies would be reconsidered were the FRB to charge for excess reserves.. Our estimates of our interest rate risk position related to noninterest-bearing demand deposits are dependent on assumptions for which there is little historical experience, and the actual behavior of those deposits in a changing interest rate environment may differ materially from our estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations.. We have experienced a low interest rate environment for the past several years. Our views with respect to, among other things, the degree to which we are \"asset-sensitive,\" including our interest rate risk position for noninterest-bearing demand deposits, are dependent on modeled projections that rely on assumptions regarding changes in balances of such deposits in a changing interest rate environment. Because there is no modern precedent for the prolonged, extremely low interest rate environment that has prevailed for the last several years, there is little historical experience upon which to base such assumptions. If interest rates continue to increase, our assumptions regarding changes in balances of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and regarding the speed and degree to which other deposits are repriced may prove to be incorrect, and business decisions made in reliance on our modeled projections and underlying assumptions could prove to be unsuccessful. Because noninterest-bearing demand deposits are a significant portion of our deposit base, realized results which are different from our modeled projections and the underlying assumptions could materially affect our results of operations.. Liquidity Risk. As a regulated entity, we are subject to capital and liquidity requirements that may limit our operations and potential growth.. We are a bank holding company and, as such, we and our subsidiary bank are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC, including risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements, and Basel III liquidity requirements. Capital needs may rise above normal levels when we experience deteriorating earnings and credit quality, and our banking regulators may increase our capital requirements based on general economic conditions and our particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. In addition, we may be required to increase our capital levels even in the absence of actual adverse economic conditions or forecasts as a result of stress testing and capital planning based on hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect our ability to expand or maintain present business levels. For a summary of the capital rules to which we are subject, see \"Capital Standards  -  Basel Framework\" on page 10 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Liquidity regulations, including regulations establishing a minimum Liquidity Coverage Ratio and requiring monthly liquidity stress testing applicable to the Company may impact profitability.. The Company is subject to liquidity regulations, including a requirement that it conduct monthly liquidity stress tests that require it to maintain a modified LCR of at least 100%. The Company's calculation of the modified LCR indicates that the Company is in compliance with the requirement. Such stress testing is subject to ongoing model and assumptions changes which could affect results.. In order to meet the requirements of these new regulations, the Company expects to continue to hold a higher portion of its assets in HQLA and a lower portion of its assets in loans than was generally the case prior to such regulation. HQLA generally have lower yields than loans of the type made by the Company.. We and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies.. Our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us and particular classes of securities that we and our banking subsidiary. 18. Table of Contents. issue. The rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. Ratings downgrades to us or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition or the market prices of our securities.. Strategic/Business Risks. Problems encountered by other financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on us.. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as \"systemic risk\" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. Information security and vendor management processes are in place to actively identify, manage and monitor actual and potential impacts.. The regulation of incentive compensation under the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees.. The bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. These regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. If we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.. We have made, and are continuing to make, significant changes to the Company that include, among other things, organizational restructurings, efficiency initiatives, and replacement or upgrades of certain core technological systems to improve our control environment, and operating efficiency. The ultimate success and completion of these changes, and their effect on the Company, may vary significantly from initial planning, which could materially adversely affect the Company.. Over the last several years, the Company has completed numerous improvement projects, including combining the legal charters of our seven affiliate banks into one, consolidating 15 loan operations sites into two, upgrading our accounting systems, installing a credit origination work flow system, streamlining our small business and retail lending, mortgage, wealth management and foreign exchange businesses, and investing in data quality and information security. Ongoing investment continues in a multi-year project to replace our core loan and deposit systems, a collection of customer-facing digital capabilities and a variety of other projects to simplify how we do business.. These changes continue to be implemented; some of the projects are fully completed, and some projects are in their early stages. By their very nature, projections of duration, cost, expected savings, expected efficiencies, and related items are subject to change and significant variability.. We may encounter significant adverse developments in the completion and implementation of these changes. These may include significant time delays, cost overruns, loss of key people, technological problems, processing failures, and other adverse developments. Any or all of these issues could result in disruptions to our systems, processes, control environment, procedures, and employees, which may adversely impact our customers and our ability to conduct business.. We have plans, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the negative effect of these potential adverse developments. However, there can be no assurance that any such adverse developments will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately remediated. The ultimate effect of any adverse development could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could materially affect the Company, including its control environment, operating efficiency, and results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. Operational/Technology Risks. Catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought, may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and the Company.. The Company has significant operations and a significant customer base in Utah, Texas, California and other regions where natural and other disasters may occur. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought. These types of natural catastrophic events at times have disrupted the local economy, the Company's business and customers, and have posed physical risks to the Company's property. In addition, catastrophic events occurring in other regions of the world may have an impact on the Company's customers and in turn on the Company. Although we have business continuity and disaster recovery programs in place, a significant catastrophic event could materially adversely affect the Company's operating results.. We could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls.. A failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the Company. We continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. These efforts also include the management of controls to mitigate operational risks for programs and processes across the Company.. We could be adversely affected by financial technology advancements and other non-traditional lending and banking sources.. The ability to successfully remain competitive is dependent upon our ability to maintain a critical technological capability and to identify and develop new, value-added products for existing and future customers. Failure to do so could impede our time to market, reduce customer product accessibility, and weaken our competitive position.. Cyber Risk. We are subject to a variety of system failure and cyber security risks that could adversely affect our business and financial performance.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. We, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. Information security risks for large financial institutions such as Zions have increased significantly in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, such as Internet and mobile banking to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of cyber criminals. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, misappropriation of funds, and theft, disclosure or misuse of proprietary Company or customer data. While we have significant internal resources, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our layers of defense or to investigate or remediate any information security vulnerabilities. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.. Model Risk. We increasingly use models in the management of the Company, and in particular in the required stress testing and capital plan. There is risk that these models are incorrect or inaccurate in various ways, which can cause us. 20. Table of Contents. to make non-optimal decisions, and this risk causes the Company to hold additional capital as a buffer against that risk.. We attempt to carefully develop, document, back test, and validate the models used in the management of the Company, including, for example, models used in the management of interest rate and liquidity risk, and those used in projecting stress losses in various segments of our credit and securities portfolios, and projecting net revenue under stress. Models are inherently imperfect for a number of reasons, however, and cannot perfectly predict outcomes. Management decisions based in part on such models, therefore, can be suboptimal. In addition, in determining the Company's capital needs under stress testing, we attempt to specifically quantify the amounts by which model results could be incorrect, and we hold material additional amounts of capital as a buffer against this \"model risk.\". Capital/Financial Reporting Risks. Stress testing and capital management under the Dodd-Frank Act may limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets.. Under HCR/CCAR, we are required to submit to the FRB each year our capital plan for the applicable planning horizon, along with the results of required stress tests. Each annual capital plan will, among other things, specify our planned capital actions with respect to dividends, preferred stock redemptions, common stock repurchases or issuances, and similar matters and will be subject to the objection or non-objection by the FRB. Moreover, the HCR/CCAR process requires us to analyze the pro forma impact on our financial condition of various hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios selected by us and the FRB. We must maintain or raise capital sufficient to meet our risk management and regulatory expectations under such hypothetical scenarios. In connection with the annual HCR/CCAR process, we also participate in the DFAST on a semiannual basis. Under DFAST, a standardized strategy for capital actions (dividend payments held constant and other current capital obligations met) is implemented by all participating banks. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, we also submit stress tests to the OCC for our subsidiary bank because it has assets in excess of $10 billion. Under both HCR/CCAR and DFAST, the FRB uses its proprietary models to analyze the Company's stressed capital position. The severity of the hypothetical scenarios devised by the FRB and OCC and employed in these stress tests is undefined by law or regulation, and is thus subject solely to the discretion of the regulators. The stress testing and capital planning processes may, among other things, require us to increase our capital levels, limit our dividends or other capital distributions to shareholders, modify our business strategies, or decrease our exposure to various asset classes.. Under stress testing and capital management standards implemented by bank regulatory agencies under the Dodd-Frank Act, we may declare dividends, repurchase common stock, redeem preferred stock and debt, access capital markets for certain types of capital, make acquisitions, and enter into similar transactions only if included in a capital plan to which the FRB has not objected. Any similar transactions not contemplated in our annual capital plan, other than those with an inconsequential impact on actual or projected capital, may require a new stress test and capital plan, which is subject to FRB non-objection. These requirements may significantly limit our ability to respond to and take advantage of market developments.. Economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the Company.. The Company and its subsidiary bank must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios, as required by its banking regulators, which can change depending upon general economic conditions, hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios, and the particular conditions, risk profiles and growth plans of the Company and its subsidiary bank. Compliance with capital requirements may limit the Company's ability to expand and has required, and may require, the Company or its subsidiaries to raise additional capital, or may require additional capital investment from the Parent. These uncertainties and risks, including those created by legislative and regulatory uncertainties, may increase the Company's cost of capital and other financing costs.. We could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory and compliance risk.. The Company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. The Company provides to its customers, invests in, and uses for its own capital, funding, and risk management needs, a number of complex. 21. Table of Contents. financial products and services. Estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. The level of regulatory/compliance oversight has been heightened in recent periods as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. The administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required the Company to comply before their formal adoption. Therefore, identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements pose an ongoing risk.. Our results of operations depend upon the performance of our subsidiaries.. We are a holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our banking subsidiary and other subsidiaries. The Parent receives substantially all of its revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries and primarily from its subsidiary bank. These dividends are a principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. We and certain of our subsidiaries experienced periods of unprofitability or reduced profitability during the most recent recession of 2007-2009. The ability of the Company and its subsidiary bank to pay dividends is restricted by regulatory requirements, including profitability and the need to maintain required levels of capital. Lack of profitability or reduced profitability exposes us to the risk that regulators could restrict the ability of our subsidiary bank to pay dividends. It also increases the risk that the Company may have to establish a \"valuation allowance\" against its net DTA or have that asset disallowed for regulatory capital purposes.. The ability of our subsidiary bank to pay dividends or make other payments to us is also limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general regulatory restrictions on its dividends. If it does not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we may be unable to pay dividends or interest on our indebtedness. The OCC, the primary regulator of our subsidiary bank, has issued policy statements generally requiring insured banks to pay dividends only out of current earnings. In addition, if, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, which could include the payment of dividends, such authority may take actions requiring that such bank refrain from the practice. Payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations if a subsidiary bank were to become \"under-capitalized\" for purposes of the applicable federal regulatory \"prompt corrective action\" regulations.. The value of our goodwill may decline in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $1 billion of goodwill that was allocated to Amegy, CB&T and Zions Bank. If the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be less than its carrying value, the Company may have to take a charge related to the impairment of its goodwill. Such a charge would occur if the Company were to experience increases in the book value of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in the fair value of equity of a reporting unit. A significant decline in the Company's expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower economic growth or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the Company's common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate the Company taking charges in the future related to the impairment of its goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of the appropriateness of the goodwill carrying value. If the Company was to conclude that a future write-down of its goodwill is necessary, it would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.. The Company may not be able to utilize the significant DTA recorded on its balance sheet.. The Company's balance sheet includes a significant DTA. We had net DTAs of $93 million at December 31, 2017, compared with $250 million at December 31, 2016. The largest components of this asset result from additions to our ALLL for purposes of GAAP in excess of loan losses actually taken for tax purposes. Our ability to continue to record this DTA is dependent on the Company's ability to realize its value through net operating loss carrybacks or future projected earnings. Loss of part or all of this asset would adversely impact tangible capital. In addition, inclusion of this asset in determining regulatory capital is subject to certain limitations. Currently, no DTAs are disallowed for regulatory purposes either on a consolidated basis or at the Company's subsidiary bank.. 22. Table of Contents. Legal/Compliance Risks. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes significant limitations on our business activities and subjects us to increased regulation and additional costs.. The Dodd-Frank Act has material implications for the Company and the entire financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act places significant additional regulatory oversight and requirements on financial institutions, particularly those with more than $50 billion of assets, including the Company. In addition, among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act:. • affected the levels of capital and liquidity with which the Company must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels;. • subjected the Company to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the FDIC;. • impacted the Company's ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities;. • impacted a number of the Company's business strategies;. • required us to incur the cost of developing substantial heightened risk management policies and infrastructure;. • regulated the pricing of certain of our products and services and restricted the revenue that the Company generates from certain businesses;. • subjected the Company to capital planning actions, including stress testing or similar actions and timing expectations for capital raising;. • subjected the Company to supervision by the CFPB, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities;. • granted authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks;. • subjected the Company to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks; and. • limited the manner and amount in which compensation is paid to executive officers and employees generally.. The Company and the entire financial services industry have incurred and will continue to incur substantial personnel, systems, consulting, and other costs in order to comply with new regulations promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act, particularly with respect to stress testing and risk management. Some aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act continue to be subject to rulemaking, many of the rules that have been adopted will take effect over several additional years, and many of the rules that have been adopted may be subject to interpretation and clarification, and accordingly, the impact of such regulatory changes cannot be presently determined. Individually and collectively, regulations adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act may materially adversely affect the Company's and the financial services industry's business, financial condition (including the Company's ability to compete effectively with less regulated financial services providers), and results of operations.. Other legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our operations and earnings.. In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act described previously, bank regulatory agencies and international regulatory consultative bodies have proposed or are considering new regulations and requirements, some of which may be imposed without formal promulgation. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC insurance assessments.. There can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory changes or actions will ultimately be adopted. However, if adopted, some of these proposals could adversely affect the Company by, among other things: impacting after-tax returns earned by financial services firms in general; limiting the Company's ability to grow; increasing taxes or fees on some of the Company's funding or activities; limiting the range of products and services that the Company could offer; and requiring the Company to raise capital at inopportune times.. Recent political developments, including the change in the executive administration of the United States, could result in substantial changes in tax, international trade, immigration, and other policies. The extent and timing of any such changes are uncertain, as are the potential direct and indirect impacts, whether beneficial or adverse.. 23. Table of Contents. Regulations and laws may be modified or repealed and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us and our subsidiaries.. The ultimate impact of these proposals cannot be predicted as it is unclear which, if any, may be adopted.. We could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings.. We are subject to risks associated with legal claims, litigation, and regulatory and other government proceedings. The Company's exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the past or current economic environments, new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes, the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies, and increasingly aggressive enforcement and legal actions against banking organizations. Any such matters may result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties (including civil money penalties under applicable banking laws), injunctions, restrictions on our business activities or other relief. Our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management attention from the operation of our business. In general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations, including those relating to anti-money laundering matters, have been increasing dramatically. In addition, any enforcement matters could impact our supervisory and CRA ratings, which may restrict or limit our activities.. Reputational Risk. The company is presented with various reputational risk issues that could stem from operational, compliance and legal risks.. A Reputational Risk Council was established to monitor, manage and develop strategies to effectively manage reputational risk which includes, but is not limited to, addressing communication logistics, legal and regulatory issues."
