[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Investing in our common stock involves significant risks relating to our business and investment objectives. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before you purchase any shares of our common stock. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Unknown additional risks and uncertainties, or ones that we currently consider immaterial, may also impact our business. If any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks related to our proposed change from a BDC to a registered closed-end fund.. If shareholders approve the proposal to authorize the Board of Directors to withdraw the Company's election to be regulated as a BDC, the withdrawal will become effective upon receipt by the SEC of the Company's application for withdrawal of such election on Form N-54C.  When the Company withdraws its election to be treated as a BDC, it will be required to register immediately as a Registered Closed-End Fund under the 1940 Act because it will not be eligible for any exemption without registration.  The 1940 Act requires that a Registered Closed-End Fund adopt certain fundamental investment restrictions in its initial registration statement.  A BDC is not required to have fundamental investment restrictions. Instead, BDCs are required to have at least 70 percent of their assets invested in eligible portfolio companies, which acts as a substitute for the fundamental investment restrictions that Registered Closed-End Funds are otherwise subject to.  Should we receive approval from shareholders to withdraw our election to be regulated as a BDC and transition to a Registered Closed-End Fund with the SEC, the most significant material changes to our business as a result of being required to adopt fundamental investment restrictions will be:. • We may not invest more than 25 percent of our total assets in the securities of companies or entities engaged in any one industry or group of industries. This limitation does not apply to investment in the securities of the U.S. Government, its agencies or instrumentalities;. • We will be required to maintain an asset coverage ratio of at least 300 percent versus 200 percent as a BDC, generally reflecting the ratio of our total assets to senior securities that are indebtedness (or 200 percent in the case of senior securities representing stock, generally reflecting the ratio of our total assets to total senior securities outstanding); and. • We will no longer be limited in our ability to invest in foreign companies and vehicles that are structured as private funds.. The limitation on investing no more than 25 percent of our total assets in the securities of companies or entities engaged in any one industry, or group of industries could prevent us, for example, from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position and/or other punitive actions on our securities of those companies). If, in order to make additional investments, we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it could be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. We may have difficulty in such a case in finding a buyer and, if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss.. The increase in the asset coverage ratio from 200 percent to 300 percent will reduce the amount of senior securities that are indebtedness we can issue to provide capital to fund our operations and make investments.  We do not currently have any senior securities outstanding, nor do we currently plan to issue such securities, but this change could reduce our operational flexibility in the future should we decide to issue such securities.  In addition, while we do not intend to specifically target foreign investments, we will no longer be required to invest 70 percent of our assets in U.S.-based eligible portfolio companies once we are no longer a BDC.. If shareholders do not approve the proposal to authorize the Board of Directors to withdraw the Company's election to be regulated as a BDC, the Company will continue to operate as a BDC.. 20. Risks related to our investments.. Approximately 46 percent of the net asset value attributable to our equity-focused portfolio company investments, or 35 percent of our net asset value, as of December 31, 2016, is concentrated in D-Wave Systems, Inc., AgBiome, LLC, and HZO, Inc.. At December 31, 2016, we valued our investment in D-Wave Systems, Inc., which had a historical cost to us of $5,689,311, at $9,714,459, our investment in AgBiome, LLC, which had a historical cost to us of $3,021,746, at $9,214,997, and our investment in HZO, Inc., which had a historical cost to us of $9,132,398, at $6,613,046.. Any downturn in the business outlook and/or substantial changes in the funding requirements of D-Wave Systems, Inc., AgBiome, LLC, and HZO, Inc., could have a significant effect on the value of our current investments in those companies, and the overall value of our portfolio, and could have a significant adverse effect on the value of our common stock.. The difficult venture capital investment and capital market climates for the types of companies in which we invest could increase the non-performance risk for our portfolio companies.. The potential for future global instabilities remains of concern. Even with signs of economic improvement, the availability of capital for firms that focus on investing in capital-intensive, science-enabled, small businesses, such as the ones in which we have historically invested and continue to hold positions in, continues to be limited. Historically, difficult financing environments have resulted in a higher than normal number of small businesses not receiving capital and being subsequently closed down with a loss to investors, and other small businesses receiving capital but at significantly lower valuations than the preceding financing rounds. Additionally, tightening the liquidity environment for companies seeking financings, sales, IPOs or M&A transactions and the currently volatile public markets in general may negatively affect the available capital to the types of companies we invest in. Further, many of our portfolio companies receive non-dilutive funding through government contracts and grants. Reductions in government spending could have a direct and significant reduction in our portfolio companies' contract or grant awards. Such reductions can also result in reduced budgets at research facilities, which would reduce the volume of products they could potentially purchase from our portfolio companies.. We believe that these factors continue to contribute to the potential for non-performance risk for our portfolio companies that need to raise additional capital or that require substantial amounts of capital to execute on their business plans, as measured on an individual portfolio company basis. We define non-performance as the risk that the price per share (or implied valuation of a portfolio company) or the effective yield of a debt security of a portfolio company, as applicable, does not appropriately represent the risk that a portfolio company that requires or seeks to raise additional capital will be: (a) unable to raise capital, will need to be shut down and will not return our invested capital; or (b) able to raise capital, but at a valuation significantly lower than the implied post-money valuation of the most recent round of financing. In these circumstances, the portfolio company could be recapitalized at a valuation significantly lower than the post-money valuation implied by our valuation method, sold at a loss to our investment or shut down. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets, including periods of extreme volatility and disruption, have had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on the valuations of our investments and on the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. We believe further that the long-term effects of the difficult private investment market, the volatility and limited capital flowing into small capitalization publicly traded companies and difficult, but improving, liquidity environments will continue to affect negatively the fundraising ability of some small businesses regardless of near-term improvements in the overall global economy and public markets.. Changes in valuations of early-stage small businesses tend to be more volatile than changes in prices of established, more mature securities.. Investments in early- and mid-stage small businesses may be inherently more volatile than investments in more mature businesses. Such immature businesses are inherently fragile and easily affected by both internal and external forces. Our investee companies can lose much or all of their value suddenly in response to an internal or external adverse event. Conversely, these immature small businesses can gain suddenly in value in response to an internal or external positive development. Moreover, because of the lack of daily pricing mechanisms of our privately held companies, our ownership interests in such investments are generally valued only at quarterly intervals by our Valuation Committee. Thus, changes in valuations from one valuation point to another may be larger than changes in valuations of marketable securities that are revalued in the marketplace much more frequently, in some highly liquid cases, virtually continuously. Although we carefully monitor each of our portfolio companies, information pertinent to our portfolio companies is not always known immediately by us, and, therefore, its availability for use in determining value may not always coincide with the timeframe of our valuations required by the federal securities laws.. 21. As of December 31, 2016, our shares of Adesto Technologies Corporation and Enumeral Biomedical Holdings, Inc., were valued using the closing price at the end of the quarter as required by the 1940 Act owing to our determination that the common stock of these companies traded in an active market as of the valuation date. If in future quarters, shares of Adesto Technologies, and Enumeral Biomedical do not continue to trade in an active market as of the dates of valuation, the value of our shares could be materially different.. Additionally, we may price or invest in rounds at lower valuations than prior rounds of financing and/or previously reported valuations in order to receive more favorable terms, such as increased ownership percentages or liquidation preferences, which may result in decreased valuations in the interim. These decreases could be material.. The capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. Such market conditions may materially and adversely affect debt and equity capital markets in the United States, which may have a negative impact on our business and operations.. From time to time, capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. For example, between 2008 and 2009, the global capital markets were unstable as evidenced by periodic disruptions in liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of major financial institutions. Despite actions of the U.S. federal government and foreign governments, these events contributed to declining general economic conditions that materially and adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and financial services firms in particular. While market conditions have experienced relative stability in recent years, there have been continuing periods of volatility, and there can be no assurance that adverse market conditions will not reoccur in the future.. Equity capital may be difficult to raise during periods of adverse or volatile market conditions because, subject to some limited exceptions, as a BDC, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price below our net asset value without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors.. Significant changes or volatility in the capital markets may also have a negative effect on the valuations of our investments. While most of our investments are not publicly traded, applicable accounting standards require us to assume as part of our valuation process that our investments are sold in a principal market to market participants. Significant changes in the capital markets may also affect the pace of our investment activity and the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. Thus, the illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments, and, as a result, we could realize significantly less than the amount at which we have valued our investments if we were required to sell them for liquidity purposes. An inability to raise or access capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Uncertainty about the financial stability of the United States and of several countries in the European Union (EU) could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Owing to federal budget deficit concerns, S&P downgraded the federal government's credit rating from AAA to AA+ for the first time in history on  August 5, 2011. Further, Moody's and Fitch had warned that they may downgrade the federal government's credit rating. Further downgrades or warnings by S&P or other rating agencies, and the U.S. government's credit and deficit concerns in general, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact both the perception of credit risk associated with our debt portfolio and our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, a decreased U.S. government credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may weigh heavily on our financial performance and the value of our common stock.. In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, which created concerns about the ability of these nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. While the financial stability of such countries has improved significantly, risks resulting from any future debt crisis in Europe or any similar crisis could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial condition of European financial institutions. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may in the future affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and home prices, among other factors. We cannot assure you that market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not impact the global economy, and we cannot assure you that assistance packages will be available or, if available, be sufficient to stabilize countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere affected by a financial crisis. To the extent uncertainty regarding any economic recovery in Europe negatively impacts consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected.. 22. In October of 2014, the Federal Reserve announced that it was concluding its bond-buying program, or quantitative easing, which was designed to stimulate the economy and expand the Federal Reserve's holdings of long-term securities, suggesting that key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, had showed signs of improvement since the inception of the program. It is unclear what effect, if any, the conclusion of the Federal Reserve's bond-buying program will have on the value of our investments. Additionally, in December 2015 and December 2016, the Federal Reserve raised the federal funds rate and further increases in the federal funds rate are expected in 2017. However, it is possible that, without quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, these developments, along with the U.S. government's credit and deficit concerns and the European sovereign debt crisis, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our portfolio company's ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms.. Investing in small, privately held and publicly traded companies involves a high degree of risk and is highly speculative.. A substantial portion of our portfolio consists of investments in preferred stock and bridge loans that are not rated by any rating agency, and if such investments were rated, they would likely receive a rating below investment grade or \"junk.\" A below investment grade or \"junk\" rating means that, in the rating agency's view, there is increased risk that the obligor on such debt will be unable to pay interest and repay principal on its debt in full. In addition, we have invested a substantial portion of our assets in privately held companies, the securities of which are inherently illiquid. We plan to increase our investment of capital in publicly traded small businesses that we believe are deeply undervalued. Our privately held companies may transition to publicly traded companies through routes other than traditional IPOs and be listed on OTC rather than national exchanges. Although these companies are publicly traded, their stock may not trade at high volumes, and prices can be volatile, which may restrict our ability to sell our positions. These privately held and publicly traded small businesses tend to lack management depth, to have limited or no history of operations and may not have attained profitability.  Because of the speculative nature of these investments, these securities have a significantly greater risk of loss than traditional investment securities. Some of our investments are likely to be complete losses or unprofitable, and some will never realize their potential. We have been and will continue to be risk seeking rather than risk averse in our approach to our investments. Neither our investments nor an investment in our common stock is intended to constitute a balanced investment program.. We have historically invested in sectors including life sciences, energy and electronics that are subject to specific risks related to each industry.. We have historically invested the three largest portions of our portfolio in life sciences, energy and electronics companies. Our focus for new investments in publicly traded companies that we believe are undervalued will be agnostic in terms of sector.. Our life sciences portfolio consists of companies that commercialize and integrate products in life sciences-related industries, including precision medicine, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, diagnostics and medical devices. There are risks in investing in companies that target life sciences-related industries, including, but not limited to, the uncertainty of timing and results of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products; failure to obtain any required regulatory approval of products; failure to show clinical utility; failure to develop manufacturing processes that meet regulatory standards; competition, in particular from companies that develop rival products; and the ability to protect proprietary technology. Adverse developments in any of these areas may adversely affect the value of our life sciences portfolio.. Our energy portfolio consists of companies that commercialize and integrate products targeted at energy-related markets. There are risks in investing in companies that target energy-related markets, including the rapid and sometimes dramatic price fluctuations of commodities, particularly oil and sugar, and of public equities, the reliance on the capital and debt markets to finance large capital outlays, change in climate, including climate-related regulations, and the dependence on government subsidies to be cost-competitive with non-renewable or energy-efficient solutions. Adverse developments in this market may significantly affect the value of our energy portfolio, and thus our portfolio as a whole.. Our electronics portfolio consists of companies that commercialize and integrate products targeted at electronics-related markets. There are risks in investing in companies that target electronics-related markets, including rapid and sometimes dramatic price erosion of products, the reliance on capital and debt markets to finance large capital outlays, including fabrication facilities, the reliance on partners outside of the United States, particularly in Asia, and inherent cyclicality of the electronics market in general. Additionally, electronics-related companies are currently out of favor with many investment firms. Therefore, access to capital may be difficult or impossible for companies in our portfolio that are pursuing these markets.. 23. Many of the sectors around which our investments have developed are all capital intensive.. Many of sectors where we have historically made investments, life sciences, energy and electronics, are all capital intensive. Currently, financing for capital-intensive companies remains difficult. In some successful companies, we believe we may need to invest more than we currently have planned to invest in these companies. There can be no assurance that we will have the capital necessary to make such investments. In addition, investing greater than planned amounts in our portfolio companies could limit our ability to pursue new investments and fund follow-on investments. Both of these situations could cause us to miss investment opportunities or limit our ability to protect existing investments from dilution or other actions or events that would decrease the value and potential return from these investments.. Our Board of Directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or shareholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse.. In 2013 we announced the refinement of our investment focus for new investments in BIOLOGY+ companies. We define BIOLOGY+ as investments in interdisciplinary life science companies where biology innovation is intersecting with innovations in areas such as electronics, physics, materials science, chemistry, information technology, engineering and mathematics. In 2015, we refined this focus to precision health and precision medicine. At the end of 2016, we announced that our focus will be on investing in what we believe are deeply undervalued, small publicly traded companies where we believe we can positively impact the business and valuation through constructive activism.   This focus is not a fundamental policy, and we will not be required to give notice to shareholders prior to making a change from this focus.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our investment objective, current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies without prior notice and without shareholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies would have on our business, net asset value, operating results and the value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investments.. We have and will continue to make follow-on investments in illiquid securities and may not be able to dispose of them when it is advantageous to do so, or ever.. Most of our historical investments have been in equity, equity-linked, or debt securities acquired directly from privately held small businesses. These securities are generally subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise have no established trading market. The illiquidity of most of our portfolio of securities may adversely affect our ability to dispose of these securities at times when it may be advantageous for us to liquidate these investments. We may never be able to dispose of these securities.. In addition, we are typically subject to lock-up provisions that prohibit us from selling our investments into the public market for specified periods of time after IPOs. After a portfolio company completes an IPO, its shares are generally subject to lock-up restrictions for a period of time.  These lock-up restrictions apply to us and our shares of the portfolio company, potentially including any shares purchased by us in the IPO, and generally include provisions that stipulate that we are not permitted to offer, pledge or sell our shares, including selling covered call options on our shares, prior to the expiration of the lock-up period.  We are also prohibited from entering into securities lending arrangements for these securities during the lock-up period. The market price of securities that we hold may decline substantially before we are able to sell these securities.. We may also hold securities of privately held companies that transition to publicly traded companies through reverse mergers into publicly traded shell companies. In such transactions, holders of shares of the privately held company prior to the reverse merger may be subject to limitations on the sale of securities held including time and volume restrictions. These restrictions may limit our ability to dispose of these securities at times when it may be advantageous for us to liquidate these investments, and the market price of securities that we hold may decline substantially before we are able to sell these securities.. Successful portfolio companies do not always result in positive investment returns.. Depending on the amount and timing of our investments in our portfolio companies, even if a portfolio company is ultimately successful, the returns on our investment in such portfolio company may not be positive. Our portfolio companies often receive capital from other investors in rounds of financing. Depending on the amount of capital that it takes to operate a company until it either becomes cash flow positive or seeks to exit through an IPO or M&A transaction, each round of financing may have different terms, including liquidation preferences and control over company decisions. Depending on which rounds of financings the Company participates in and the terms of the last round of financing, the investment returns for any particular round may be higher or lower than others. Furthermore, our portfolio companies often require more capital than originally expected, and the. 24. ultimate value of those companies at realization may not be greater than the capital invested. Each of these scenarios and others could lead to a realized loss on an investment in an ultimately successful company.. Our investments in debt and preferred equity securities of portfolio companies may be extremely risky, and we could lose all or part of our investments.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if a portfolio company goes bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided significant \"managerial assistance\" to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of another creditor.. When we make an investment in a secured debt instrument of a portfolio company, we generally take a security interest in the available assets of the portfolio company, including the equity interests of its subsidiaries, which we expect to help mitigate the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company's financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan's terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies.. When we make an investment in preferred equity securities of a portfolio company, these securities are generally structured as unsecured convertible securities that are non-income producing and thus are not meant to be viewed or considered debt securities. As such, our preferred equity securities are generally subordinated to claims by outstanding debt and other creditors. Deterioration in a portfolio company's financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold and may not result in proceeds to return for our holdings of preferred stock. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if a portfolio company goes bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided significant \"managerial assistance\" to that portfolio company and/or that we hold equity securities of the portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of another creditor.. To the extent we use debt to finance our investments, changes in interest rates could affect our cost of capital and net investment income.. To the extent we borrow money to make investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the return from invested funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income in the event we use debt to finance our investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds could increase, which could reduce our net investment income. In addition, an increase in interest rates could make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. As a result, a significant increase in market interest rates could increase our cost of capital, which would reduce our net investment income. A decrease in market interest rates may adversely impact our returns on our cash invested in treasury securities, which would reduce our net investment income and cash available to fund operations. We may also use the proceeds from borrowings to invest in non-income-producing investments. Under this scenario, we would incur costs associated with the borrowings without any income to offset those costs until such investment is monetized. It is possible we may not be able to cover the costs of such borrowings from the returns on those investments.. 25. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks senior to our investments in such companies.. We may make investments in our portfolio companies in the form of bridge notes that typically convert into preferred stock issued in the next round of financing of that portfolio company or other forms of convertible and non-convertible debt securities. Our portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks senior to the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest and principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments on the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the case of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligations to us. In addition, in companies where we have made investments in the form of bridge notes or other debt securities, we may also have investments in equity in the form of preferred shares. In some cases, a bankruptcy court may subordinate our bridge notes and/or other debt securities to debt holders that do not have equity in the portfolio company.. Our portfolio companies face risks associated with international sales.. We anticipate that certain of our portfolio companies could generate revenue from international sales. Risks associated with these potential future sales include:. • Political and economic instability;. • Export controls and other trade restrictions;. • Changes in legal and regulatory requirements;. • U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for the technologies;. • Changes in tax laws and tariffs;. • Convertibility and transferability of international currencies; and. • International currency exchange rate fluctuations.. The effect of global climate change may impact our operations and the operations of our portfolio companies.. There may be evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk, and some of our portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change. For example, the needs of customers of energy companies vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increases in the cost of energy could adversely affect the cost of operations of our portfolio companies if the use of energy products or services is material to their business. A decrease in energy use owing to weather changes may affect some of our portfolio companies' financial condition through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general may disrupt our operations and the operations of our portfolio companies and require more system backups and redundancies, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions.. Risks related to our Company and an investment in our securities.. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC may limit our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business will in the future require a substantial amount of capital. We may acquire additional capital from the issuance of senior securities (including debt and preferred stock), the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or from securitization transactions. However, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. Additionally, we may only issue senior securities up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act permits us to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200 percent after such issuance or incurrence. If our assets decline in value and we fail to satisfy this test, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our. 26. investments and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales or repayment may be disadvantageous, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. • Senior Securities. As a result of issuing senior securities, we would also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred securities, such securities would rank \"senior\" to common stock in our capital structure, resulting in preferred shareholders having separate voting rights and possibly rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those granted to holders of our common stock. Furthermore, the issuance of preferred securities could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common shareholders or otherwise be in your best interest.. • Additional Common Stock. Our Board of Directors may decide to issue common stock to finance our operations rather than issuing debt or other senior securities. As a BDC, we are generally not able to issue our common stock at a price below net asset value without first obtaining required approvals from our shareholders and our independent directors. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price, that in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities at the relevant time. We may also make rights offerings to our shareholders at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our shareholders at that time would decrease, and such shareholders may experience dilution.. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and, therefore, we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer.. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market's assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. We do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and, therefore, our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies.. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if a significant investment fails to perform as expected.. Our investment portfolio includes investments that may be significant individually or in the aggregate. If a significant investment in one or more companies fails to perform as expected, such a failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and the magnitude of such effect could be more significant than if we had further diversified our portfolio.. Ineffective internal controls could impact our business and operating results.. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations.. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results.. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic downturns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, during these periods our non-performing assets may increase and the value of our portfolio may decrease if we are required to write down the values of our investments. Adverse economic conditions may also decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. We experienced to some extent such effects as a result of the economic downturn that occurred from 2008 through 2009 and may experience such effects again in any future downturn or recession.. 27. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, we are often not in a position to exert influence on the entity, and other equity holders and management of the company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings.. When we make debt or minority equity investments, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree and the other equity holders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investment.. Our business model depends upon the development and maintenance of strong referral relationships with asset managers, investment banking firms and other entities active in working with small publicly traded and privately held companies.. We are substantially dependent on our informal relationships, which we use to help identify and gain access to investment opportunities. If we fail to maintain our relationships with key firms, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other firms or other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our portfolio of equity investments and achieve our investment objective. In addition, persons with whom we have informal relationships are not obligated to inform us of investment opportunities, and therefore such relationships may not lead to the origination of equity or other investments. Any loss or diminishment of such relationships could effectively reduce our ability to identify attractive portfolio companies that meet our investment criteria, either for direct equity investments or for investments through private secondary market transactions or other secondary transactions.. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our common stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive.. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our common stock. In accordance with certain applicable Treasury regulations and private letter rulings issued by the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), a RIC may treat a distribution of its own common stock as fulfilling the RIC distribution requirements if each stockholder may elect to receive his or her entire distribution in either cash or common stock of the RIC, subject to a limitation that the aggregate amount of cash to be distributed to all stockholders must be at least 20 percent of the aggregate declared distribution. If too many stockholders elect to receive cash, each stockholder electing to receive cash must receive a pro rata amount of cash (with the balance of the distribution paid in common stock). In no event will any stockholder, electing to receive cash, receive less than 20 percent of his or her entire distribution in cash. If these and certain other requirements are met, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the amount of the dividend paid in common stock will be equal to the amount of cash that could have been received instead of common stock. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distribution is properly reported as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to Non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock.. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a BDC or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy.. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than \"qualifying assets\" unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70 percent of our total assets are qualifying assets, which may prevent us from making certain investments that we would otherwise view as attractive opportunities or important to facilitate transactions such as IPOs through participation in such offerings.. In the event we remain a BDC, we believe that most of the investments that we may acquire in the future will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if the investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could be found to be in violation of the 1940 Act provisions applicable to BDCs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Rules under the 1940 Act could prevent us, for example, from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position and/or other punitive. 28. actions on our securities of those companies). If, in order to make additional investments, we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it could be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. We may have difficulty in such a case in finding a buyer and, if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss.. Failure to maintain our status as a BDC could change our operating flexibility.. We have elected to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. For example, BDCs must invest at least 70 percent of their gross assets in specified types of securities, primarily in private companies or thinly traded U.S. public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Investments in securities issued as part of an IPO are not considered \"qualifying assets.\" Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. In addition, upon approval of a majority of our shareholders, we may elect to withdraw our status as a BDC. If we decide to withdraw our election, or if we otherwise fail to qualify or maintain our qualification as a BDC, we may be subject to different regulations under the 1940 Act as a Registered Closed-End Fund that may positively or negatively change our operating flexibility.. We are uncertain of our sources for funding our future capital needs; if we cannot obtain capital from realized investments to reinvest or obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire investments and to expand our operations will be adversely affected.. Any working capital reserves we maintain and capital obtained from realized investments may not be sufficient for investment purposes, and we may require debt or equity financing to operate. Accordingly, in the event that we develop a need for additional capital in the future for investments or for any other reason, these sources of funding may not be available to us. If we cannot obtain capital from realized investments or obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire investments and to expand our operations will be adversely affected. In such cases, we could be unable to make follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position and/or other punitive actions on our securities of those companies), which may negatively impact our net asset value per share, our investment returns and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted.. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of a majority of the independent members of our Board of Directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, five percent or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we will generally be prohibited from buying or selling any securities from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our Board of Directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain \"joint\" transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or closely related times), without prior approval of our Board of Directors and, in some cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25 percent of our voting securities, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person or certain of that person's affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC.. Our business may be adversely affected by the small size of our market capitalization.. Changes in regulations of the financial industry have adversely affected coverage of small capitalization companies such as ours by financial analysts. A number of analysts that have covered us in the past are no longer able to continue to do so owing to changes in employment, to restrictions on the size of companies they are allowed to cover and/or their firms have shut down operations. An inability to attract analyst coverage may adversely affect the liquidity of our stock and our ability to raise capital from investors, particularly institutional investors. Our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, may adversely affect our future financial performance. The inability to obtain adequate financing could force us to seek debt financing, self-fund strategic initiatives or even forgo certain opportunities, which in turn could potentially harm our current and future performance.. Because there is generally no established market in which to value our investments, our Valuation Committee's value determinations may differ materially from the values that a ready market or third party would attribute to these investments.. There is generally no public market for the private equity securities in which we invest. Pursuant to the requirements of the 1940 Act, we value all of the privately held equity and debt securities in our portfolio at fair value as determined in good faith by the Valuation Committee, a committee made up of all of the independent members of our Board of Directors, pursuant to. 29. Valuation Procedures established by the Board of Directors. Determining fair value requires that judgment be applied to the specific facts and circumstances of each portfolio investment pursuant to specified valuation principles and processes. We are required by the 1940 Act to value specifically each individual investment on a quarterly basis and record unrealized depreciation for an investment that we believe has become impaired. Conversely, we must record unrealized appreciation if we believe that a security has appreciated in value. Our valuations, although stated as a precise number, are necessarily within a range of values that vary depending on the significance attributed to the various factors being considered.. We currently use option pricing models to determine and/or allocate the fair value of a significant portion of the privately held securities in our portfolio. Option pricing models, including the Black-Scholes-Merton model, require the use of subjective input assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, and expected risk-free rate of return. In the Black-Scholes-Merton model, variations in the expected volatility or expected term assumptions have a significant impact on fair value. Because the privately held securities in our portfolio are not publicly traded, many of the required input assumptions are more difficult to estimate than they would be if a public market for the underlying securities existed.. Without a readily ascertainable market value and because of the inherent uncertainty of valuation, the fair value that we assign to our investments may differ from the values that would have been used had an efficient market existed for the investments, and the difference could be material. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Operations as a change in the \"Net (decrease) increase in unrealized depreciation on investments.\". Even when a portfolio of early-stage, high-technology investments proves to be profitable over the portfolio's lifetime, it is common for the portfolio's value to undergo a so-called \"J-curve\" valuation pattern. This means that when reflected on a graph, the portfolio's valuation would appear in the shape of the letter \"J,\" declining from the initial valuation prior to increasing in valuation. This J-curve valuation pattern results from write-downs and write-offs of portfolio investments that appear to be unsuccessful, prior to write-ups for portfolio investments that prove to be successful. Because early-stage small businesses typically have negative cash flow and are by their nature inherently fragile, a valuation process can more readily substantiate a loss of value than an increase in value. Even if our investments prove to be profitable in the long run, such J-curve valuation patterns could have a significant adverse effect on our net asset value per share and the value of our common stock in the interim. Over time, as we continue to make additional investments, this J-curve pattern may be less relevant for our portfolio as a whole, because the individual J-curves for each investment, or series of investments, may overlap with previous investments at different stages of their J-curves.. We expect to continue to experience material write-downs of securities of portfolio companies.. Write-downs of securities of our privately held companies have always been a by-product and risk of our business. We expect to continue to experience material write-downs of securities of privately held portfolio companies. Write-downs of such companies occur at all stages of their development. Such write-downs may increase in dollar terms, frequency and as a percentage of our net asset value as our dollar investment activity in privately held companies continues to increase, and the number of such holdings in our portfolio continues to grow. As the average size of each of our investments increases, the average size of our write-downs may also increase. We may also choose to sell the securities of our privately held portfolio companies at a discount to the amounts at which they have been previously valued.. Option pricing models place a high weighting on liquidation preferences, which means that small differences in how the preferences are structured can have a material effect on the fair value of our securities at the time of valuation and also on future valuations should additional rounds of financing occur with senior preferences. As such, valuations calculated by option pricing models may not increase if 1) rounds of financing occur at higher prices per share, 2) liquidation preferences include multiples on investment, 3) the amount of invested capital is small and/or 4) liquidation preferences are senior to prior rounds of financing.. Unfavorable regulatory changes could impair our ability to engage in liquidity events and dampen our returns.. We currently rely on the ability to generate realized returns on our investments through liquidity events such as IPOs and M&A transactions.. When companies in which we have invested as private entities complete IPOs of their securities, these newly issued securities are by definition unseasoned issues. Unseasoned issues tend to be highly volatile and have uncertain liquidity, which may negatively affect their price. In addition, we are typically subject to lock-up provisions that prohibit us from selling our investments into the public market for specified periods of time after IPOs. The market price of securities that we hold may decline substantially before we are able to sell these securities. Government reforms that affect the trading of securities in the United States have made market-making activities by broker-dealers less profitable, which has caused broker-dealers to reduce their market-making activities, thereby making the market for unseasoned stocks less liquid than they might be otherwise.. 30. We also invest in companies that may complete public listings through reverse mergers with publicly traded shell companies. The securities owned prior to the completion of the reverse merger are subject to sale restrictions of at least one year from the effective date of the reverse merger as long as the publicly traded company continues to comply with the requirements of Rule 144. In addition, stockholders deemed to be affiliates of the publicly traded company are subject to volume restrictions once the stock owned by those entities is tradable. Furthermore, in 2011, the SEC established new rules for \"seasoning periods\" for former shell companies to uplist to a national exchange. These rules may negatively affect the liquidity of our stock of these companies as well as the ability of the publicly traded companies to raise additional capital, if needed. These factors could negatively affect the performance of the publicly traded companies and our returns on investments in these companies.. In addition, the structural changes in the public markets that currently value near-term cash flows and predictable revenues versus long-term prospects for growth, and the regulatory burden imposed on publicly traded companies by governments worldwide, have reduced the appetite for some of our portfolio companies to pursue IPOs or other steps that would increase the liquidity of our ownership in these portfolio companies. This trend may lengthen the time that our portfolio companies remain as privately held entities in our portfolio, and our returns on these investments may be dampened by the need or choice to seek monetization of such illiquid assets.. An inability to generate realized returns on our investments could negatively affect our liquidity, our reinvestment rate in new and follow-on investments and the value of our investment portfolio.. We are subject to risks associated with our strategy of increasing assets under management by raising third-party funds to manage.. We have announced our strategy to grow assets under management by raising one or more third-party funds to manage. It is possible that we will invest our capital alongside or through these funds in portfolio companies. There is no assurance when and if we will be able to raise such fund(s) or, if raised, whether they will be successful.. Our executive officers and employees, in their capacity as the investment advisor of a fund, may manage other investment funds in the same or a related line of business as we do. Accordingly, they may have obligations to such other entities, the fulfillment of which obligations may not be in the best interests of us or our shareholders.. Our shares of common stock are trading at a discount from net asset value and may continue do so in the future.. Shares of closed-end investment companies have frequently traded at a market price that is less than the net asset value that is attributable to those shares. In part as a result of adverse economic conditions and increasing pressure within the financial sector of which we are a part, our common stock traded below our net asset value per share during some periods in 2010 and consistently throughout 2011 through 2016. Our common stock may continue to trade at a discount to net asset value in the future. The possibility that our shares of common stock may trade at a discount from net asset value over the long term is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value will decrease. We cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at, or below our net asset value. On December 30, 2016, the last trading day of the year, our stock closed at $1.38 per share, a discount of $0.96, or 41.0 percent, to our net asset value per share of $2.34 as of December 31, 2016. On March 14, 2017, our stock closed at $1.34 per share, a discount of $1.00, or 42.7 percent percent, to our net asset value per share as of December 31, 2016.. Because we neither choose investments based on a strategy of diversification nor rebalance the portfolio should one or more investments increase in value substantially relative to the rest of the portfolio, the value of our portfolio is subject to greater volatility than the value of companies with more broadly diversified investments.. We do not choose investments based on a strategy of diversification. We also do not rebalance the portfolio should one of our portfolio companies increase in value substantially relative to the rest of the portfolio.  Therefore, the value of our portfolio may be more vulnerable to events affecting a single sector or industry and, therefore, subject to greater volatility than a company that follows a diversification strategy. Accordingly, an investment in our common stock may present greater risk to you than an investment in a diversified company.. We are dependent upon key management personnel for future success, and may not be able to retain them.. None of our employees are subject to employment agreements. Our ability to attract and retain personnel with the requisite credentials, experience and skills will depend on several factors including, but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages,. 31. benefits and professional growth opportunities. Many of the entities with which we will compete for experienced personnel, including investment funds and traditional financial services companies, will have greater resources than us.. We are dependent upon the diligence and skill of our senior management and other key advisors for the selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. We utilize lawyers, and we utilize outside consultants to assist us in conducting due diligence when evaluating potential investments. There is generally no publicly available information about the companies in which we invest, and we rely significantly on the diligence of our employees and advisors to obtain information in connection with our investment decisions. Our future success, to a significant extent, depends on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team. The departure of any of our senior management or key advisors could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy. We do not maintain for our benefit any key-man life insurance on any of our officers or employees.. The failure in cyber security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning, could impair our ability to conduct business effectively.. The occurrence of a disaster such as a cyber attack, a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised.. We depend upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions related primarily to financial records and reporting. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other companies, we may experience threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or shareholder dissatisfaction or loss.. We are dependent on information systems and systems failures could disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. Our business is dependent on our and third party communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, and adversely affect our business. There could be:. • sudden electrical or telecommunications outages;. • natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes;. • disease pandemics;. • events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and. • cyber attacks.. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio.. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as \"follow-on\" investments, in order to: (1) increase or maintain in whole or in part our ownership percentage; (2) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or (3) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment.. 32. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or lack sufficient funds to make such investments. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make a follow-on investment may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation, or may cause us to lose some or all preferred rights pursuant to \"pay-to-play\" provisions that have become common in venture capital transactions. These provisions require proportionate investment in subsequent rounds of financing in order to preserve preferred rights such as anti-dilution protection, liquidation preferences and preemptive rights to invest in future rounds of financing. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities or because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status.. Bank borrowing or the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock by us, to fund investments in portfolio companies or to fund our operating expenses, would make our total return to common shareholders more volatile.. Use of debt or preferred stock as a source of capital entails two primary risks. The first is the risk of leverage, which is the use of debt to increase the pool of capital available for investment purposes. The use of debt leverages our available common equity capital, magnifying the impact on net asset value of changes in the value of our investment portfolio. For example, a BDC that uses 33 1/3 percent leverage (that is, $50 of leverage per $100 of common equity) will show a 1.5 percent increase or decline in net asset value for each one percent increase or decline in the value of its total assets. The second risk is that the cost of debt or preferred stock financing may exceed the return on the assets the proceeds are used to acquire, thereby diminishing rather than enhancing the return to common shareholders. If we issue preferred shares or debt, the common shareholders would bear the cost of this leverage. To the extent that we utilize debt or preferred stock financing for any purpose, these two risks would likely make our total return to common shareholders more volatile. In addition, we might be required to sell investments, in order to meet dividend, interest or principal payments, when it might be disadvantageous for us to do so.. As provided in the 1940 Act and subject to some exceptions, we can issue debt or preferred stock so long as our total assets immediately after the issuance, less some ordinary course liabilities, exceed 200 percent of the sum of the debt and any preferred stock outstanding. The debt or preferred stock may be convertible in accordance with SEC guidelines, which might permit us to obtain leverage at more attractive rates. The requirement under the 1940 Act to pay, in full, dividends on preferred shares or interest on debt before any dividends may be paid on our common stock means that dividends on our common stock from earnings may be reduced or eliminated. An inability to pay dividends on our common stock could conceivably result in our ceasing to qualify as a RIC under the Code, which would, in most circumstances, be materially adverse to the holders of our common stock.. As of December 31, 2016, we did not have debt outstanding pursuant to the Loan Facility, and we did not have any preferred stock outstanding.. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions.. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in market conditions, currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. It may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations.. We are authorized to issue preferred stock, which would convey special rights and privileges to its owners senior to those of common stock shareholders.. We are currently authorized to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, under terms and conditions determined by our Board of Directors. These shares would have a preference over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation. The statutory class voting rights of any preferred shares we would issue could make it more difficult for us to take some actions. 33. that might, in the future, be proposed by the Board and/or holders of common stock, such as a merger, exchange of securities, liquidation or alteration of the rights of a class of our securities, if these actions were perceived by the holders of the preferred shares as not in their best interests. The issuance of preferred shares convertible into shares of common stock might also reduce the net income and net asset value per share of our common stock upon conversion.. Loss of status as a RIC could reduce our net asset value and distributable income.. We have elected to qualify as a RIC under the Code; however, we did not qualify as a RIC in 2016 owing to failing the 90 Percent Income Test.  As a RIC, we do not have to pay federal income taxes on our income (including realized gains) that is distributed to our shareholders. Accordingly, we are not permitted under accounting rules to establish reserves for taxes on our unrealized capital gains. Since we failed to qualify for RIC status in 2016, and if we fail in any subsequent year, we would be taxed in the same manner as an ordinary corporation and distributions to our shareholders would not be deductible in computing our taxable income, which could materially adversely impact the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, to the extent that we had unrealized appreciation, we would have to establish reserves for taxes, which would reduce our net asset value, accordingly. We do not expect to have a material tax liability in 2016 owing to net operating and capital losses that offset income and realized gains on investments during the year.. To requalify as a RIC in a subsequent taxable year, we would be required to satisfy the RIC qualification requirements for that year and dispose of any earnings and profits from any year which we failed to qualify as a RIC. Subject to a limited exception applicable to RICs that qualified as such under Subchapter M of the Code for at least one year prior to disqualification and that requalify as a RIC no later than the second year following the nonqualifying year, we could be subject to tax on any unrealized net built-in gain in the assets held by us during the period in which we failed to qualify as a RIC that are recognized within the subsequent 10 years (or shorter applicable period), unless we made a special election to pay corporate-level tax at the time of our requalification as a RIC.. We will not be eligible to be treated as a RIC if we are not able to qualify as a RIC in any given year. In order to qualify for the special treatment accorded to RICs, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. Recent changes in our business, including our strategy of taking larger positions in our portfolio companies and increased holding periods to exit through IPOs or M&A transactions, have created more risk specifically relating to the asset diversification requirements of maintaining our special tax status. To qualify as a RIC, we must meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet these tests in any year may result in the loss of RIC status. As long as the aggregate values of our non-qualifying assets remain below 50 percent of total assets, we will continue to qualify as a RIC. It becomes more difficult to pass this test when companies in our portfolio are successful and we want to invest more capital in those companies to increase our investment returns. Rather than selling portfolio companies that are performing well in order to pass our RIC diversification tests, we may opt instead to not qualify as a RIC. If we fail to qualify for special tax treatment accorded to RICs for failure of our RIC diversification tests, or for any other reason, we will be subject to corporate-level income tax on our income.. A deemed dividend election could affect the value of our stock.. If we, as a RIC, decide to make a deemed distribution of realized net capital gains and retain the net realized capital gains for any taxable year, also referred to as a deemed dividend, we would have to establish appropriate reserves for taxes that we would have to pay on behalf of shareholders. It is possible that establishing reserves for taxes could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Additionally, if we decide to make a deemed distribution and changes in tax law occur that would increase the dividend tax rates for individuals and corporations, the net benefit to shareholders from a deemed distribution could be adversely affected. Such changes, therefore, could reduce the overall benefit to our shareholders from our status as a RIC.. We operate in a heavily regulated environment, and changes to, or non-compliance with, regulations and laws could harm our business.. We are subject to substantive SEC regulations as a BDC. Securities and tax laws and regulations governing our activities may change in ways adverse to our and our shareholders' interests, and interpretations of these laws and regulations may change with unpredictable consequences. Any change in the laws or regulations that govern our business could have an adverse impact on us or on our operations. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, valuation, public disclosure and market regulation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd Frank Act, new SEC regulations, new federal accounting standards and Nasdaq Stock Market rules, create additional expense and uncertainty for publicly traded companies in general, and for BDCs in particular. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases because of their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time, which may. 34. well result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have and will continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, our reputation may be harmed. This increased regulatory burden is causing us to incur significant additional expenses and is time consuming for our management, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. Market prices of our common stock will continue to be volatile.. We expect that the market price of our common stock price will continue to be volatile. The price of the common stock may be higher or lower than the price you pay for your shares, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include the following:. • stock market and capital markets conditions;. • internal developments in our Company with respect to our personnel, financial condition and compliance with all applicable regulations;. • announcements regarding any of our portfolio companies;. • announcements regarding developments in the life sciences-, energy- or electronics-related fields in general;. • announcements regarding government funding and initiatives associated with the development of life sciences-, energy- or electronics-related products;. • a mismatch between the long-term nature of our business and the short-term focus of many investors;. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs, RICs or other financial services companies;. • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to BDCs or RICs; general economic conditions and trends; and/or. • departures of key personnel.. We will not have control over many of these factors, but expect that our stock price may be influenced by them. As a result, our stock price may be volatile, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business.. Quarterly results fluctuate and are not indicative of future quarterly performance.. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate as a result of a number of factors. These factors include, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we and our portfolio companies encounter competition in our markets and general economic and capital markets conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any one quarter should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future quarters.. 35. Investment in foreign securities could result in additional risks.. We may invest in foreign securities, and we currently have one investment in a foreign security. When we invest in securities of foreign issuers, we may be subject to risks not usually associated with owning securities of U.S. issuers. These risks can include fluctuations in foreign currencies, foreign currency exchange controls, social, political and economic instability, differences in securities regulation and trading, expropriation or nationalization of assets and foreign taxation issues. In addition, changes in government administrations or economic or monetary policies in the United States or abroad could result in appreciation or depreciation of our securities and could favorably or unfavorably affect our operations. It may also be more difficult to obtain and enforce a judgment against a foreign issuer. Any foreign investments made by us must be made in compliance with U.S. and foreign currency restrictions and tax laws restricting the amounts and types of foreign investments.. Although most of our investments are denominated in U.S. dollars, our investment that is denominated in a foreign currency is subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency may change in relation to the U.S. dollar, in which currency we maintain financial statements and valuations. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments.. Investing in our stock is highly speculative and an investor could lose some or all of the amount invested.. Our investment objectives and strategies result in a high degree of risk in our investments and may result in losses in the value of our investment portfolio. Our investments in small businesses are highly speculative and, therefore, an investor in our common stock may lose his or her entire investment. The value of our common stock may decline and may be affected by numerous market conditions, which could result in the loss of some or all of the amount invested in our common stock. The securities markets frequently experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that affect market prices for securities of companies in general, and technology and very small capitalization companies in particular. Because of our focus on the technology and very small capitalization sectors, and because we are a very small capitalization company ourselves, our stock price is especially likely to be affected by these market conditions. General economic conditions and conditions in the semiconductor and information technology, life sciences, materials science and other high-technology industries, including energy, may also affect the price of our common stock.. Our compensation structure as an internally managed BDC could be materially different than our compensation structure if we were externally managed.. As an internally managed BDC, our compensation structure is determined and set by our Board of Directors. This structure currently includes salary and bonus and incentive compensation, which is issued through grants and subsequent vesting of restricted stock. We are not generally permitted to employ an incentive compensation structure that directly ties performance of our investment portfolio and results of operations to compensation owing to our granting of restricted stock as incentive compensation.. This compensation structure contrasts to that of an externally managed BDC, where management fees used to pay salaries and bonuses of the employees of the external adviser are determined based on a percentage of total (gross) assets, and cash-based incentive compensation is determined based on the performance of the BDC's investment portfolio and operating performance.. The differences between the compensation structure of our internally managed BDC and that of an externally managed BDC could lead to material differences in the compensation of our management team when compared with the compensation that would have been due if we were externally managed. For example, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 salaries and benefits (excluding compensation costs related to restricted stock) accounted for approximately 3.2 percent of total assets. Owing primarily to a reduction in the number of full-time employees, we currently expect salaries and benefits to be lower for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017. That said, this percentage could be higher if our total assets decrease as of the end of 2017 or could be lower if our total assets increase as of the end of 2017. If we were externally managed, the management fees that would be used to pay such expenses would be fixed based on the investment advisory agreement between the BDC and the adviser. This percentage is commonly set at 2.0 percent of total assets.. Incentive compensation is currently paid to our employees through grants of restricted stock. This restricted stock vests in part over time and in part when the volume-weighted stock price is at or above pre-determined stock price targets over a 30-day period. In 2016, 75,570 shares of restricted stock vested based on time that were net settled by withholding 26,450 shares, which represented the minimum statutory obligation for each employee's applicable income and other employment taxes and remitted cash totaling $39,691 to the appropriate tax authorities.  No restricted stock vested based on stock price. The company recognized $158,973 in non-cash compensation expense related to restricted stock in 2016. While a portion of the amount of restricted stock that vests is directly correlated to our stock price, there is no specific direct correlation between vesting and. 36. performance of the BDC's investment portfolio and operating performance. If we were externally managed, we would pay our adviser in cash a portion of our net realized gains less unrealized depreciation. This percentage is commonly set at 20 percent. If we were externally managed in 2016, we would not have paid incentive compensation to our adviser.. You have no right to require us to repurchase your shares.. You do not have the right to require us to repurchase your shares of common stock.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in offerings, such as follow-on public offerings, registered direct or PIPE transactions, or rights offerings, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities."
