[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our disclosures and analysis in this Form 10-K contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other statements we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions; the effectiveness of our marketing programs; the performance of our existing products and services; our ability to attract and retain customers and expand our customer base; our ability to enter into or renew online marketing agreements; our ability to respond to competitive pressures; expenses, including shipping costs and the costs of marketing our current and future products and services; the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings in the normal course of business; and our ability to integrate acquisitions.. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risk, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward looking statements.. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\"). Also note we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.. The financial and credit markets and consumer sentiment have and will experience significant volatility, which may have an adverse effect on our customers’ spending patterns and in turn our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consumer spending patterns are difficult to predict and are sensitive to the general economic climate, the consumer’s level of disposable income, consumer debt, and overall consumer confidence. In recent past, financial crisis has impacted and may continue to impact our business in a number of ways. Included among these current and potential future negative impacts are reduced demand and lower prices for our products and services.. The Company’s operating results may fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause financial results to be below expectations. The Company’s operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. In budgeting the Company’s operating expenses for the foreseeable future, the Company makes assumptions regarding revenue trends; however, some of the Company’s operating expenses are fixed in the short term. Sales of the Company’s products are seasonal, concentrated in the fourth calendar quarter, due to the Thanksgiving and Christmas-time holidays, and the second calendar quarter, due to Mother's Day and Administrative Professionals’ Week. In anticipation of increased sales activity during these periods, the Company hires a significant number of temporary employees to supplement its permanent staff and the Company increases its inventory levels. If revenues during these periods do not meet the Company’s expectations, it may not generate sufficient revenue to offset these increased costs and its operating results may suffer.. The Company’s quarterly operating results may significantly fluctuate and you should not rely on them as an indication of its future results. The Company’s future revenues and results of operations may significantly fluctuate due to a combination of factors, many of which are outside of management’s control. The most important of these factors include:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseasonality; \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t<U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe retail economy;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing and effectiveness of marketing programs;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing of the introduction of new products and services;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Company’s ability to find and maintain reliable sources for certain of its products;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe impact of severe weather or natural disasters on consumer demand; \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\t<U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing and effectiveness of capital expenditures;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Company’s ability to enter into or renew online marketing agreements; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompetition.. The Company may be unable to reduce operating expenses quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If the Company has a shortfall in revenue without a corresponding reduction to its expenses, operating results may suffer. The Company’s operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of future operating results. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations as an indication of the Company’s future performance. It is possible that results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause the trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock to fall.. Consumer spending on products sold by the Company may vary with general economic conditions. If general economic conditions deteriorate and the Company’s customers have less disposable income, consumers may spend less on its products and its quarterly operating results may suffer.. During peak periods, the Company utilizes temporary employees and outsourced staff, who may not be as well-trained or committed to its customers as its permanent employees, and if they fail to provide the Company’s customers with high quality customer service the customers may not return, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company depends on its customer service department to respond to its customers should they have questions or problems with their orders. During peak periods, the Company relies on its permanent employees, as well as temporary employees and outsourced staff to respond to customer inquiries. These temporary employees and outsourced staff may not have the same level of commitment to the Company’s customers or be as well trained as its permanent employees. If the Company’s customers are dissatisfied with the quality of the customer service they receive, they may not shop with the Company again, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 9. Table of Contents. If the Company fails to develop and maintain its brands, it may not increase or maintain its customer base or its revenues. The Company must continue to develop and maintain the 1-800-FLOWERS.COM brands to expand its customer base and its revenues. In addition, the Company has introduced and acquired other brands in the past, and may continue to do so in the future. The Company believes that the importance of brand recognition will increase as it expands its product offerings. Many of the Company’s customers may not be aware of the Company’s non-floral products. If the Company fails to advertise and market its products effectively, it may not succeed in establishing its brands and may lose customers leading to a reduction of revenues.. The Company’s success in promoting and enhancing the 1-800-FLOWERS.COM brands will also depend on its success in providing its customers high-quality products and a high level of customer service. If the Company’s customers do not perceive its products and services to be of high quality, the value of the 1-800-FLOWERS.COM brands would be diminished and the Company may lose customers and its revenues may decline.. A failure to establish and maintain strategic online and social media relationships that generate a significant amount of traffic could limit the growth of the Company’s business. Although the Company expects a significant portion of its online customers will continue to come directly to its website, it will also rely on third party websites, search engines and affiliates with which the Company has strategic relationships for traffic. If these third-parties do not attract a significant number of visitors, the Company may not receive a significant number of online customers from these relationships and its revenues from these relationships may decrease or remain flat. There continues to be strong competition to establish or maintain relationships with leading Internet companies, and the Company may not successfully enter into additional relationships, or renew existing ones beyond their current terms. The Company may also be required to pay significant fees to maintain and expand existing relationships. The Company’s online revenues may suffer if it does not enter into new relationships or maintain existing relationships or if these relationships do not result in traffic sufficient to justify their costs.. If local florists and other third-party vendors do not fulfill orders to the Company’s customers' satisfaction, customers may not shop with the Company again. In many cases, floral orders placed by the Company’s customers are fulfilled by local independent florists, a majority of which are members of BloomNet. The Company does not directly control any of these florists. In addition, many of the non-floral products sold by the Company are manufactured and delivered to its customers by independent third-party vendors. If customers are dissatisfied with the performance of the local florist or other third-party vendors, they may not utilize the Company’s services when placing future orders and its revenues may decrease.. If a florist discontinues its relationship with the Company, the Company’s customers may experience delays in service or declines in quality and may not shop with the Company again. Many of the Company’s arrangements with local florists for order fulfillment may be terminated by either party with 10 days notice. If a florist discontinues its relationship with the Company, the Company will be required to obtain a suitable replacement located in the same geographic area, which may cause delays in delivery or a decline in quality, leading to customer dissatisfaction and loss of customers.. If a significant number of customers are not satisfied with their purchase, the Company will be required to incur substantial costs to issue refunds, credits or replacement products. The Company offers its customers a 100% satisfaction guarantee on its products. If customers are not satisfied with the products they receive, the Company will either replace the product for the customer or issue the customer a refund or credit. The Company’s net income would decrease if a significant number of customers request replacement products, refunds or credits and the Company is unable to pass such costs onto the supplier.. Increased shipping costs and labor stoppages may adversely affect sales of the Company’s products. Many of the Company's products are delivered to customers either directly from the manufacturer or from the Company’s fulfillment centers. The Company has established relationships with Federal Express and other common carriers for the delivery of these products. If these carriers were to increase the prices they charge to ship the Company’s goods, and the Company passes these increases on to its customers, its customers might choose to buy comparable products locally to avoid shipping charges. In addition, these carriers or other parties involved (e.g. dock workers) may experience labor stoppages, which could impact the Company’s ability to deliver products on a timely basis to our customers and adversely affect its customer relationships.. If the Company fails to continuously improve its website, it may not attract or retain customers. If potential or existing customers do not find the Company’s website a convenient place to shop, the Company may not attract or retain customers and its sales may suffer. To encourage the use of the Company’s website, it must continuously improve its accessibility, content and ease of use. Customer traffic and the Company’s business would be adversely affected if competitors' websites are perceived as easier to use or better able to satisfy customer needs.. Competition in the floral, plant, gift basket, gourmet food, and specialty gift industries is intense and a failure to respond to competitive pressure could result in lost revenues. There are many companies that offer products in these categories. In the floral category, the Company’s competitors include:. <U+25CF> retail floral shops, some of which maintain toll-free telephone numbers and websites;  <U+25CF> online floral retailers;  <U+25CF> catalog companies that offer floral products;  <U+25CF> floral telemarketers and wire services; and  <U+25CF> supermarkets, mass merchants and specialty gift retailers with floral departments.. 10. Table of Contents. Similarly, the plant, gift basket, gourmet food, cookie, candy, fruit and specialty gift categories are highly competitive. Each of these categories encompasses a wide range of products and is highly fragmented. Products in these categories may be purchased from a number of outlets, including mass merchants, retail shops, online retailers and mail-order catalogs.. Competition is intense and the Company expects it to increase. Increased competition could result in:. <U+25CF> price reductions, decreased revenue and lower profit margins;. <U+25CF> loss of market share; and. <U+25CF> increased marketing expenditures.. These and other competitive factors could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.. If the Company does not accurately predict customer demand for its products, it may lose customers or experience increased costs. If the Company overestimates customer demand for its products, excess inventory and outdated merchandise could accumulate, tying up working capital and potentially resulting in reduced warehouse capacity and inventory losses due to damage, theft and obsolescence. If the Company underestimates customer demand, it may disappoint customers who may turn to its competitors. Moreover, the strength of the 1-800-FLOWERS.COM brands could be diminished due to misjudgments in merchandise selection.. If the supply of flowers for sale becomes limited, the price of flowers could rise or flowers may be unavailable and the Company’s revenues and gross margins could decline. A variety of factors affect the supply of flowers in the United States and the price of the Company’s floral products. If the supply of flowers available for sale is limited due to weather conditions, farm closures, economic conditions, or other factors, prices for flowers could rise and customer demand for the Company’s floral products may be reduced, causing revenues and gross margins to decline. Alternatively, the Company may not be able to obtain high quality flowers in an amount sufficient to meet customer demand. Even if available, flowers from alternative sources may be of lesser quality and/or may be more expensive than those currently offered by the Company.. Most of the flowers sold in the United States are grown by farmers located abroad, primarily in Colombia, Ecuador and Holland, and the Company expects that this will continue in the future. The availability and price of flowers could be affected by a number of factors affecting these regions, including:. <U+25CF> import duties and quotas;  <U+25CF> agricultural limitations and restrictions to manage pests and disease;  <U+25CF> changes in trading status;  <U+25CF> economic uncertainties and currency fluctuations;  <U+25CF> severe weather;  <U+25CF> work stoppages;  <U+25CF> foreign government regulations and political unrest; and  <U+25CF> trade restrictions, including United States retaliation against foreign trade practices.. Our orchard production operations are subject to environmental laws and regulation and any failure to comply could result in significant fines or clean-up costs. We use herbicides, fertilizers and pesticides, some of which may be considered hazardous substances. Various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regulate our properties and farming operations and could make us liable for costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous substances on, under, or in property that we currently own or lease, that we previously owned or leased, or upon which we currently or previously conducted farming operations. These laws could impose liabilities without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to use, sell or collateralize certain real property and result in significant fines or clean-up costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future environmental laws could impact our farming operations or increase our cost of goods.. Various diseases, pests and certain weather conditions can affect fruit production. Various diseases, pests, fungi, viruses, drought, frosts, hail, wildfires, floods and certain other weather conditions could affect the quality and quantity of our fruit production in our Harry & David orchards, decreasing the supply of our products and negatively impacting profitability. Our producing orchards also require adequate water supplies. A substantial reduction in water supplies could result in material losses of crops, which could lead to a shortage of our product supply.. 11. Table of Contents. The ripening of our fruits is subject to seasonal fluctuations which could negatively impact profitability. The ripening of our fruits in the Harry & David orchards can happen earlier than predicted due to warmer temperatures during the year. This would result in an oversupply of fruits which we might not be able to sell on a timely basis and could result in significant inventory write-offs. The ripening of the Company’s fruits can also happen later than predicted due to colder temperatures during the year. This can cause a delay in product shipments and not being able to timely meet customer demand during the critical holiday season. Both of these scenarios could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company’s franchisees may damage its brands or increase its costs by failing to comply with its franchise agreements or its operating standards. The Company’s franchise business is governed by its Uniform Franchise Disclosure Document, franchise agreements and applicable franchise law. If the Company’s franchisees do not comply with its established operating standards or the terms of the franchise agreements, the 1-800-FLOWERS.COM brands may be damaged. The Company may incur significant additional costs, including time-consuming and expensive litigation, to enforce its rights under the franchise agreements. Additionally, the Company is the primary tenant on certain leases, which the franchisees sublease from the Company. If a franchisee fails to meet its obligations as subtenant, the Company could incur significant costs to avoid default under the primary lease. Furthermore, as a franchiser, the Company has obligations to its franchisees. Franchisees may challenge the performance of the Company’s obligations under the franchise agreements and subject it to costs in defending these claims and, if the claims are successful, costs in connection with their compliance.. If third parties acquire rights to use similar domain names or phone numbers or if the Company loses the right to use its phone numbers, its brands may be damaged and it may lose sales. The Company’s Internet domain names are an important aspect of its brand recognition. The Company cannot practically acquire rights to all domain names similar to www.1800flowers.com, or its other brands, whether under existing top level domains or those issued in the future. If third parties obtain rights to similar domain names, these third parties may confuse the Company’s customers and cause its customers to inadvertently place orders with these third parties, which could result in lost sales and could damage its brands.. Likewise, the phone number that spells 1-800-FLOWERS is important to the Company’s brand and its business. While the Company has obtained the right to use the phone numbers 1-800-FLOWERS, 1-888-FLOWERS and 1-877-FLOWERS, as well as common toll-free \"FLOWERS\" misdials, it may not be able to obtain rights to use the FLOWERS phone number as new toll-free prefixes are issued, or the rights to all similar and potentially confusing numbers. If third parties obtain the phone number which spells \"FLOWERS\" with a different prefix or a toll-free number similar to FLOWERS, these parties may also confuse the Company’s customers and cause lost sales and potential damage to its brands. In addition, under applicable FCC rules, ownership rights to phone numbers cannot be acquired. Accordingly, the FCC may rescind the Company’s right to use any of its phone numbers, including 1-800-FLOWERS (1-800-356-9377).. Computer system disruption and cyber security threats could damage our relationships with our customers, harm our reputation, expose us to litigation and adversely affect our business. We rely extensively on our computer systems for the successful operation of our business, including corporate email communications to and from employees, customers and retail operations, the design, manufacture and distribution of our finished goods, digital marketing efforts, collection and retention of customer data, employee information, the processing of credit card transactions, online e-commerce activities and our interaction with the public in the social media space. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from computer viruses, malicious attacks and other security breaches. The possibility of a cyber-attack on any one or all of these systems is always a serious threat and consumer awareness and sensitivity to privacy breaches and cyber security threats is at an all-time high.. As part of our business model, we collect, retain, and transmit confidential information over public networks. In addition to our own databases, we use third party service providers to store, process and transmit this information on our behalf. Although we contractually require these service providers to implement and use reasonable security measures, we cannot control third parties and cannot guarantee that a security breach will not occur in the future either at their location or within their systems. We have confidential security measures in place to protect both our physical facilities and digital systems from attacks. Despite these efforts, we may be vulnerable to targeted or random security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events.. Given the robust nature of our e-commerce presence and digital strategy, it is imperative that we and our e-commerce partners maintain uninterrupted operation of our: (i) computer hardware, (ii) software systems, (iii) customer marketing databases, and (iv) ability to email our current and potential customers.. If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly or reliably, we may incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss or theft and impediments to our ability to conduct our operations. Any material disruptions in our e-commerce presence or information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A privacy or data security breach could expose us to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation and adversely affect our business. An important component of our business involves the receipt and storage of information about our customers. We have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our team members, contractors, vendors, and temporary staff.. The Company’s business could be injured by significant credit card, debit card and gift card fraud. Customers typically pay for their on-line or telephone orders with debit or credit cards as well as a portion of their orders using gift cards. The Company’s revenues and gross margins could decrease if it experienced significant credit card, debit card and gift card fraud. Failure to adequately detect and avoid fraudulent credit card, debit card and gift card transactions could cause the Company to lose its ability to accept credit cards or debit cards as forms of payment and/or result in charge-backs of the fraudulently charged amounts and/or significantly decrease revenues. Furthermore, widespread credit card, debit card and gift card fraud may lessen the Company’s customers’ willingness to purchase products through the Company’s websites or toll-free telephone numbers. For this reason, such failure could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 12. Table of Contents. Unexpected system interruptions caused by system failures may result in reduced revenues and harm to the Company’s brand. In the past, particularly during peak holiday periods, the Company has experienced significant increases in traffic on its website and in its toll-free customer service centers. The Company’s operations are dependent on its ability to maintain its computer and telecommunications systems in effective working order and to protect its systems against damage from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar events. The Company’s systems have in the past, and may in the future, experience:. <U+25CF> system interruptions;. <U+25CF> long response times; and. <U+25CF> degradation in service.. The Company’s business depends on customers making purchases on its systems. Its revenues may decrease and its reputation could be harmed if it experiences frequent or long system delays or interruptions or if a disruption occurs during a peak holiday season.. If the Company’s telecommunications providers do not adequately maintain the Company’s service, the Company may experience system failures and its revenues may decrease. The Company is dependent on telecommunication providers to provide telephone services to its customer service centers and connectivity with its data centers. Although the Company maintains redundant telecommunications systems, if these providers experience system failures or fail to adequately maintain the Company’s systems, the Company may experience interruptions and will be unable to generate revenue. The Company depends upon these third-party relationships because it does not have the resources to maintain its service without these or other third parties. Failure to maintain these relationships or replace them on financially attractive terms may disrupt the Company’s operations or require it to incur significant unanticipated costs.. The Company's operating results may suffer due to economic, political and social unrest or disturbances. Like other American businesses, the Company is unable to predict what long-term effect acts of terrorism, war, or similar unforeseen events may have on its business. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted if such events cause an economic slowdown in the United States, or other negative effects that cannot now be anticipated.. If the Company is unable to hire and retain key personnel, its business may suffer. The Company’s success is dependent on its ability to hire, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. In particular, the Company’s success depends on the continued efforts of its Chief Executive Officer, Christopher G. McCann, as well as its senior management team which help manage its business. The loss of the services of any of the Company’s executive management or key personnel or its inability to attract qualified additional personnel could cause its business to suffer and force it to expend time and resources in locating and training additional personnel.. Many governmental regulations may impact the Internet, which could affect the Company’s ability to conduct business. Any new law or regulation, or the application or interpretation of existing laws, may decrease the growth in the use of the Internet or the Company’s website. The Company expects there will be an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the Internet in the United States and throughout the world. These laws or regulations may relate to liability for information received from or transmitted over the Internet, online content regulation, user privacy, taxation and quality of products and services sold over the Internet. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity, libel, employment, personal privacy and other issues is uncertain and developing. This could decrease the demand for the Company’s products, increase its costs or otherwise adversely affect its business.. Regulations imposed by the Federal Trade Commission may adversely affect the growth of the Company’s Internet business or its marketing efforts. The Federal Trade Commission has proposed regulations regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from individuals when accessing websites, with particular emphasis on access by minors. These regulations may include requirements that the Company establish procedures to disclose and notify users of privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for collection and use of information and provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete personal information stored by the Company. These regulations may also include enforcement and redress provisions. Moreover, even in the absence of those regulations, the Federal Trade Commission has begun investigations into the privacy practices of other companies that collect information on the Internet. One investigation resulted in a consent decree under which an Internet company agreed to establish programs to implement the principles noted above. The Company may become a party to a similar investigation, or the Federal Trade Commission's regulatory and enforcement efforts, or those of other governmental bodies, may adversely affect its ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which could adversely affect its marketing efforts.. Unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property by third parties may damage its brands. Unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property by third parties may damage its brands and its reputation and may likely result in a loss of customers. It may be possible for third parties to obtain and use the Company’s intellectual property without authorization. Third parties have in the past infringed or misappropriated the Company’s intellectual property or similar proprietary rights. The Company believes infringements and misappropriations will continue to occur in the future. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries is uncertain and still evolving. The Company has been unable to register certain of its intellectual property in some foreign countries and furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.. 13. Table of Contents. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be expensive and, if the Company is not successful, could disrupt its ability to conduct business. The Company has been unable to register certain of its intellectual properties in some foreign countries, including, “1-800-Flowers.com”, “1-800-Flowers” and “800-Flowers”. The Company cannot be certain that the products it sells, or services it offers, do not or will not infringe valid patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. The Company may be a party to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property of others from time to time in the ordinary course of its business. The Company may incur substantial expense in defending against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against the Company may result in substantial monetary liability or may materially disrupt its ability to conduct business.. The Company does not collect sales or consumption taxes in some jurisdictions. In addition to the Company’s retail store operations, the Company collects sales or other similar taxes in states where the Company’s e-commerce channel has applicable nexus. Our customer service and fulfillment networks, and any further expansion of those networks, along with other aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional sales and use tax obligations. An increasing number of states have considered or adopted laws that attempt to impose obligations on out-of-state retailers to collect taxes on their behalf, and the recent June 2018 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. et al. enables states to consider adopting laws requiring out-of-state sellers to collect and remit sales tax, even in states in which the seller has no physical presence. To the extent that individual states decide to adopt similar legislation, this could significantly increase the collection and compliance burden on the Company. We may not have sufficient lead time to build systems and processes to collect these taxes properly, or at all. Failure to comply with such laws or administrative practices, or a successful assertion by such states requiring us to collect taxes where we do not, could result in substantial tax liabilities, including for past sales, as well as penalties and interest. In addition, if the tax authorities in jurisdictions where we are already subject to sales tax or other indirect tax obligations were successfully to challenge our positions, our tax liability could increase substantially.. A failure to integrate our acquisitions may cause the results of the acquired company, as well as the results of the Company to suffer.  The Company has opportunistically acquired a number of companies over the past several years. Additionally, the Company may look to acquire additional companies in the future. As part of the acquisition process, the Company embarks upon a project management effort to integrate the acquisition onto our information technology systems and management processes.  If we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions, the results of our acquisitions may suffer, management may have to divert valuable resources to oversee and manage the acquisitions, the Company may have to expend additional investments in the acquired company to upgrade personnel and/or information technology systems and the results of the Company may suffer.. A failure to dispose of assets or businesses in a timely manner may cause the results of the Company to suffer. The Company continues to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help it meet its objectives. When the Company decides to sell assets or a business, it may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of its strategic objectives. Alternatively, the Company may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than it had anticipated. After reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the disposition of a business, the Company is subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, which may prevent the Company from completing the transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside the Company’s control could affect its future financial results.. Product liability claims may subject the Company to increased costs. Several of the products the Company sells, including perishable food and alcoholic beverage products may expose it to product liability claims in the event that the use or consumption of these products results in personal injury or property damage. Although the Company has not experienced any material losses due to product liability claims to date, it may be a party to product liability claims in the future and incur significant costs in their defense. Product liability claims often create negative publicity, which could materially damage the Company’s reputation and its brands. Although the Company maintains insurance against product liability claims, its coverage may be inadequate to cover any liabilities it may incur.. The price at which the Company’s Class A common stock will trade may be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially. The stock market has from time to time experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, particularly securities of companies with Internet operations. As a result, investors may experience a material decline in the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock, regardless of the Company’s operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. The Company may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and its results of operations.. Additional Information. The Company’s internet address is www.1800flowers.com. We make available, through the investor relations tab located on our website at www.1800flowersinc.com, access to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. All such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. (The information posted on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.). A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is available without charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc., One Old Country Road, Suite 500, Carle Place, NY 11514. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC."
