[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. These risk factors may be important to understanding other statements in this Form 10-K. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Form 10-K.. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. Please see page 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of some of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors. If any of these risks occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue and the loss or temporary loss of a major customer for any reason could harm our financial condition.. We have historically generated most of our revenue from a limited number of customers. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, our five largest customers in each period (which differed by period) collectively accounted for 70%, 78% and 74% respectively, of our revenue. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, ADVA Optical Networking North America, Inc. accounted for 15%, 26% and 22% of our revenue, respectively, and ZTE Kangxun Telecom Co. Ltd., or ZTE, accounted for 30%, 32% and 28% respectively, of our revenue. In addition, during 2017 and 2015, Coriant, Inc. accounted for 11% and 13%, respectively, of our revenue.  As a consequence of the concentrated nature of our customer base, our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and are difficult to estimate, and any cancellation of orders or any acceleration or delay in anticipated product purchases or the acceptance of shipped products by our larger customers or any government-mandated inability to sell to any of our larger customers could materially affect our revenue and results of operations in any quarterly period.. For example, in 2016, the U.S. Department of Commerce published a final rule that added ZTE to the \"Entity List\" for actions contrary to the national security and foreign policy interests of the United States, which had the practical effect of preventing us from making any sales to ZTE for a period of time until a temporary general license was issued, and subsequently extended, by the U.S. Department of Commerce. The temporary license enabled us to resume sales to ZTE until a settlement agreement between the U.S. Department of Commerce and ZTE was ultimately reached and ZTE was removed from the Entity List. There can be no guarantee that the U.S. Department of Commerce will not take future regulatory action that may materially interfere with our ability to make sales to ZTE or any of its affiliates or other customers, in particular in China. Even without such action by the U.S. Department of Commerce, we would be prohibited from exporting our products to any foreign recipient if we have knowledge that a violation of U.S. export regulations has occurred, is about to occur, or is intended to occur in connection with the item. The loss or temporary loss of such customers as a result of future regulatory limitation could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We may be unable to sustain or increase our revenue from our larger customers, grow revenues with new or other existing customers at the rate we anticipate or at all, or offset the discontinuation of concentrated purchases by our larger customers with purchases by new or existing customers. We expect that such concentrated purchases will continue to contribute materially to our revenue for the foreseeable future and that our results of operations may fluctuate materially as a result of such larger customers' buying patterns. For example, one of our larger customers made significant purchases in the first quarter of 2017 which were greater than its purchases in the fourth quarter of 2016, however; orders from that customer decreased more than 50% in the second quarter of 2017 and did not return to first quarter 2017 purchasing levels for the remainder of 2017. Further, the markets our customers sell into may experience slower deployment than anticipated or these customers may lose market share with their end customers. In addition, we have seen and may in the future see consolidation of our customer base which could result in loss of customers or reduced purchases. The loss or temporary loss of such customers, or a significant delay or reduction in their purchases, could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 13. Product quality problems, defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We produce highly complex products that incorporate advanced technologies and that we believe to be state-of-the-art for our industry. Despite our testing prior to their release, our products may contain undetected defects or errors, including design, contract manufacturing or supplier quality issues, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Product defects or errors have in the past and in the future could affect the performance of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products. Allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our warranty costs and related returns which would negatively impact our gross margins, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, cause us to lose significant customers, subject us to liability for damages or divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For example, we experienced a negative impact on product performance in the second quarter of 2017 in connection with the quality issue at one of our contract manufacturers, as described in Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which we refer to as the Quality Issue. This resulted in a charge to the cost of revenue in our income statement during the second quarter of 2017.. From time to time, we have had to replace certain components of products that we had shipped and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs, including deficiencies in components provided by our suppliers and failures in software protocols or defective component batches resulting in reliability issues, in such products, and we may be required to do so in the future. We may also be required to provide full replacements or refunds for such defective products. Such remediation could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The future success of our business is substantially dependent on our successful development and release of new products.. The markets for our products are characterized by changes and improvements in existing technologies and the introduction of new technology approaches. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon the continuing relevance of our technological capabilities, our ability to interpret customer and market requirements in advance of product deliveries and our ability to introduce in a timely manner new products that address our customers' requirements for more cost-effective bandwidth solutions. The development of new products is a complex process, and we may experience delays and failures in completing the development and introduction of new products. Our successful product development depends on a number of factors, including the following:. • the accurate prediction of market requirements, changes in technology and evolving standards;. • the availability of qualified product designers and technologies needed to solve difficult design challenges in a cost-effective, reliable manner;. • our ability to design products that meet customers' cost, size, acceptance and specification criteria and performance requirements;. • our ability to manufacture new products with acceptable quality and manufacturing yields in a sufficient quantity to meet customer demand and according to customer needs;. • our ability to offer new products at competitive prices;. • our dependence on suppliers to deliver in a timely manner materials that are critical components of our products;. • our dependence on third-party manufacturers to successfully manufacture our products in accordance with the specifications that we and our customers require;. • the identification of and entry into new markets for our products;. • the acceptance of our customers' products by the market and the lifecycle of such products; and. • our ability to deliver products in a timely manner within our customers' product planning and deployment cycle.. In general, a new product development effort may last two years or longer, and requires significant investments in engineering hours, third-party development costs, equipment, prototypes and sample materials, as well as sales and marketing expenses, which will not be recouped if the product launch is unsuccessful. We may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may be costlier to develop, may fail to meet the requirements of the market or our customers, or may be adopted by customers slower than we expect. In that case, we may not reach our expected level of production orders and may lose market share, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain our current revenue levels or resume revenue growth.. 14. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from international sales and rely on foreign manufacturers to make our products, and therefore are subject to additional risks associated with our international operations.. Since January 1, 2013, we have shipped our products to customers located in 20 foreign countries. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we derived 84%, 82% and 82%, respectively, of our revenue from sales to customers with ship-to locations outside the United States. A significant portion of our international sales are made to customers with ship-to locations in China. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we derived 39%, 41% and 36%, respectively, of our revenue from sales to customers with ship-to locations in China. We also work with manufacturing facilities outside of the United States. We have expanded, and in the future may further expand, our international operations to locate additional functions related to the development, manufacturing and sale of our products outside of the United States. Our international operations are subject to inherent risks, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • U.S. or foreign governmental action, such as export control or import restrictions, that could prevent or significantly hinder our ability to sell our products to certain customers or customers in certain foreign jurisdictions or build our products internationally;. • greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and accounts receivable obligations and longer collection periods;. • difficulties in managing and staffing international offices, and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations;. • the impact of general economic and political conditions in economies outside the United States, including the uncertainty arising from the June 2016 referendum vote in the United Kingdom in favor of exiting the European Union and the subsequent formal notification by the United Kingdom of its intention to withdraw from the European Union, and heightened economic and political uncertainty within and among other European Union member states;. • tariff and trade barriers, changes in custom and duties requirements or compliance interpretations and other regulatory requirements or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets;. • heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, financial statements;. • certification requirements;. • greater difficulty documenting and testing our internal controls;. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. • potentially adverse tax consequences, including further reform to the U.S. tax code and international tax rules such as the base erosion and profit shifting initiative;. • the effects of changes in currency exchange rates;. • changes in service provider and government spending patterns;. • social, political and economic instability;. • higher incidence of corruption or unethical business practices that could expose us to liability or damage our reputation; and. • natural disasters, health epidemics and acts of war or terrorism.. The current U.S. President, members of his Administration, and other public officials, including members of the current U.S. Congress, continue to signal a willingness to revise, renegotiate or terminate various multilateral trade agreements under which U.S. companies currently exchange products and services around the world, and to impose new taxes on certain goods imported into the United States or other adverse consequences on companies importing certain goods into the United States.  Since we rely primarily upon non-U.S. manufacturers to make our products, such steps, if adopted, could make our products more expensive and less competitive in the U.S. market.  Such steps, if adopted, could also lead to retaliatory actions by other foreign governments through measures to prohibit, reduce or discourage purchases of our products by foreign customers, or other means, which could make it more difficult to sell our products in those countries or make our products more expensive and less competitive in those foreign markets. For example, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business and provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, any of which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, in December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted, bringing about far-ranging changes to the existing corporate tax system and. 15. establishing a quasi-territorial system for taxing foreign-source income of multinational corporations. It is not known what specific additional measures might be proposed or how they would be implemented or enforced, or what effect emerging tax reform or other near-term Congressional action may have on other companies' or our business practices.  There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation or executive action in the United States that could significantly increase our cost of manufacturing and, consequently, adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, will not be enacted.. In addition, international customers may also require that we comply with additional testing or customization of our products to conform to local standards, which could materially increase the costs to sell our products in those markets.. As we continue to operate on an international basis, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales.. Our operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects and may increase the risk associated with investments by investors in our common stock.. We were founded in 2009 and shipped our first products in 2011. Our fairly short operating history, combined with the rapidly evolving, cyclical and competitive nature and consolidation of our industry, suppliers, manufacturers and customers, make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have encountered and may continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies in constantly evolving industries, including unpredictable and volatile revenues and increased expenses as we seek to grow our business. If we do not manage these risks and overcome these difficulties successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected, and the market price of our common stock could decline. Further, we have limited historic financial data, and we operate in a rapidly evolving and increasingly competitive market. As such, any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in a more predictable market.. Since we began commercial shipments of our products, our revenue, gross profit and results of operations have varied and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. It is difficult for us to accurately forecast our future revenue and gross profit and plan expenses accordingly and, therefore, it is difficult for us to predict our future results of operations.. Quality control problems in manufacturing could result in delays in product shipments to customers or in quality problems with our products which could adversely affect our business.. We have and in the future may again experience quality control problems in our manufacturing operations or the manufacturing operations of our contract manufacturers. For example, we experienced product quality control problems in the second quarter of 2017 in connection with the Quality Issue. If we are unable to promptly identify and correct certain quality issues in our products prior to the products' being shipped to customers, failure of our deployed products could cause failures in our customers' products, which could require us to issue a product recall or trigger epidemic failure claims pursuant to our customer contracts, which may require us to indemnify or pay liquidated damages to affected customers, repair or replace damaged products, or discontinue or significantly delay shipments. Quality control problems with materials provided by suppliers may adversely impact our ability to ship our products to customers. Undetected quality problems may prompt unexpected product returns and adversely affect warranty costs. As a result, we could experience a decline in revenue or incur additional costs that would adversely affect our gross margins. In addition, even if a problem is identified and corrected at the manufacturing stage, product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would negatively affect our revenue, competitive position and reputation.. The failure to increase sales to our customers and expand our customer base as anticipated could adversely affect our future revenue and business.. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand sales to our existing customers for use in a customer's existing or new product offerings and continue to expand our customer base. Our efforts to increase product sales to new and existing customers may generate less revenue than anticipated or take longer than anticipated. Further, our customers may elect to develop in-house modules and purchase lower-cost components, such as our DSP ASICs or silicon PICs, in place of modules, which would negatively affect our revenue. If we are unable to increase sales to our new and existing customers and expand our customer base as anticipated, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected.. 16. If we fail to attract, retain and motivate key personnel, or if we fail to retain and motivate our founders, our business could suffer.. Our business depends on the services of highly qualified employees in a variety of disciplines, including optical systems and networking, digital signal processing, large-scale ASIC design and verification, silicon photonic integration, system software development, hardware design and high-speed electronics design. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of these employees, our founders and other members of our senior management team, as well as our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management and technical personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry and a limited number of qualified personnel with expertise in the areas that are relevant to our business, and as a result we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the expansion and success of our business. All of our co-founders are currently employees of our company. The loss of services of any of our founders or of any other officers or key personnel, or our inability to continue to attract qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Customer requirements for new products are increasingly challenging, which could lead to significant executional risk in designing such products. We may incur significant expenses long before we can recognize revenue from new products, if at all, due to the costs and length of research, development and manufacturing process cycles.. Network equipment manufacturers seek increased performance optical interconnect products, at lower prices and in smaller and lower-power designs. These requirements can be technically challenging, and are sometimes customer-specific, which can require numerous design iterations. Because of the increasing level of complexity of design requirements, including stringent customer-imposed acceptance criteria, executing on our product development goals is difficult and sometimes unpredictable. These difficulties could result in product sampling delays and/or missing targets on key specifications and customer requirements and acceptance criteria. Our failure to meet our customers' requirements could result in our customers seeking alternative suppliers, which would adversely affect our reputation and results of operations.. Additionally, we and our competitors often incur significant research and development and sales and marketing costs for products that, at the earliest, will be purchased by our customers long after much of the cost is incurred and, in some cases, may never be purchased due to changes in industry or customer requirements in the interim.. If we fail to accurately predict market requirements or market demand for our products, our business, competitive position and operating results will suffer.. We operate in a dynamic and competitive industry and use significant resources to develop new products for existing and new markets. After we have developed a product, there is no guarantee that our customers will integrate our product into their equipment or devices and, ultimately, bring the equipment and devices incorporating our product to market, including because we may be considered a sole-source supplier with a limited operating history. In addition, there is no guarantee that cloud, network and communications service providers will ultimately choose to purchase network equipment that incorporates our products. In these situations, we may never produce or deliver significant quantities of our products, even after incurring substantial development expenses. From the time a customer elects to integrate our interconnect technology into their product, it typically takes 18 to 24 months for high-volume production of that product to commence. After volume production begins, we cannot be assured that the equipment or devices incorporating our product will gain market acceptance by network operators.. If we fail to accurately predict and interpret market requirements or market demand for our new products, our business and growth prospects will be harmed. If high-speed networks are deployed to a lesser extent or more slowly than we currently anticipate, we may not realize anticipated benefits from our investments in research and development. For example, our industry is currently seeing a slowdown in the rate of new network deployments in the China long-haul and metro network markets, which, when combined with weakening prices and excess inventory, has resulted in a corresponding slowdown in the order rate of certain of our Chinese customers. The combined impact of governmental policy and the cyclical nature of a major market has made it difficult to predict demand from Chinese customers. As a result, our business, competitive position, market share and operating results have experienced, and may continue to experience, pressure.. As demand for our products in one market grows, demand in another market may decrease. For example, if we sell our products directly to content providers in addition to network equipment manufacturers, our sales to network equipment manufacturers may decrease due to reduced demand from their customers or due to dissatisfaction by network equipment manufacturers with this change in our business model. Further, the inter-data center market is subject to upgrade cycles and volatility driven by changing priorities. In addition, even in the event of expansion in our markets, we may not experience a. 17. corresponding increase in demand for our products. Any reduction in demand in one market that is not offset by an increase in demand in another market could adversely affect our market share or results of operations.. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable effort and expense. As a result, our sales and revenue are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from period to period, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly.. The timing of our sales and revenue recognition is difficult to predict because of the length and unpredictability of our products' sales cycles. A sales cycle is the period between initial contact with a prospective network equipment manufacturer customer and any sale of our products. Customer orders are complex and difficult to complete because prospective customers generally consider a number of factors over an extended period of time before committing to purchase the products we sell. Customers often view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision and require considerable time to evaluate, test and qualify our products prior to making a purchase decision and placing an order. The length of time that customers devote to their evaluation, contract negotiation and budgeting processes varies significantly. Our products' sales cycles can be lengthy in certain cases. During the sales cycle, we expend significant time and money on sales and marketing activities and make investments in evaluation equipment, all of which lower our operating margins, particularly if no sale occurs or if the sale is delayed as a result of extended qualification processes or delays from our customers' customers. Even if a customer decides to purchase our products, there are many factors affecting the timing of our recognition of revenue, which makes our revenue difficult to forecast. For example, there may be unexpected delays in a customer's internal procurement processes.. Even after a customer makes a purchase, there may be circumstances or terms relating to the purchase that delay our ability to recognize revenue from that purchase. For example, recognizing revenue from the sale of our products may be subject to delivery to the customer or their carrier, acceptance testing or the products may be placed into a remote stocking location. In addition, the significance and timing of our product enhancements, and the introduction of new or similar products by our competitors, may also affect customers' purchases both in the short-term and long-term. Further, our customers' solutions often require components from other optical providers and any inability by those providers to ship products or maintain continuity of supply could have an impact on the sales of our customers, which impact could pass through to us. For all of these reasons, it is difficult to predict whether a sale will be completed, the particular period in which a sale will be completed or the period in which revenue from a sale will be recognized. If our sales cycles lengthen, our revenue could be lower than expected, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We depend on third parties for a significant portion of the fabrication, assembly and testing of our products.. The fabrication, assembly and testing of our products is done by third-party contract manufacturers and foundries. As a result, we face competition for manufacturing capacity in the open market. We rely on foundries to manufacture wafers and on third-party manufacturers to assemble, test and manufacture substantially all of our coherent DSP ASICs, silicon PICs and modules. Our contract manufacturers implement any customer-specific configurations and packaging before customer shipments. Accordingly, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control has in the past and in the future could result in product shortages or quality assurance problems. For example, we experienced product shortages in the second quarter of 2017 in connection with the Quality Issue. These issues have in the past and in the future could delay shipments of our products, increase our assembly or testing costs or lead to costly epidemic failure claims. In addition, the consolidation of contract manufacturers and foundries, as well as the increasing capital intensity and complexity associated with fabrication in smaller process geometries, has limited the number of available contract manufacturers and foundries and increased our dependence on a smaller number of contract manufacturers and foundries. The limited number of contract manufacturers or foundries could also increase the costs of components or manufacturing and adversely affect our results of operations, including our gross margins. In addition, to the extent we engage additional contract manufacturers or foundries, introduce new products with new manufacturers or foundries, move existing production lines to new manufacturers or foundries and/or vertically integrate processes by assuming new responsibilities internally, we could experience supply disruptions during the transition process.. Because we rely on contract manufacturers and foundries, we face several significant risks in addition to those discussed above, including:. • a lack of guaranteed supply of manufactured wafers and other raw and finished components and potential higher wafer and component prices due to supply constraints;. • the limited availability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies;. 18. • the location of contract manufacturers and foundries in regions that are subject to earthquakes, typhoons, tsunamis and other natural disasters;. • competition with our contract manufacturers' or foundries' other customers when contract manufacturers or foundries allocate capacity or supply during periods of capacity constraint or supply shortages; and. • potential regulatory changes, including in the United States, that could in the future prohibit, or increase our costs relating to, the use of contract manufacturers and foundries in certain regions.. The manufacture of our products is a highly complex and technologically demanding process that utilizes many state of the art manufacturing processes and specialized components. Our foundries, suppliers, and contract manufacturers have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields for our wafers or PIC components and modules. This often occurs during the production or assembly of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies and can occur even in mature processes due to break downs in mechanical systems, process controls, clean room controls, equipment failures, calibration errors and the handling of the material from station to station as well as damage resulting from the shipment and handling of the products to various points of processing.. We depend on a limited number of suppliers, some of which are sole sources, and our business could be disrupted if they are unable to meet our needs.. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of the key materials, including silicon wafers, substrate materials and components, equipment used to manufacture and test our products, and key design tools used in the design, testing and manufacturing of our products. Some of these suppliers are sole sources and in certain instances we face capacity competition from some of our suppliers. With some of these suppliers, we do not have long-term agreements and instead purchase materials and equipment through a purchase order process. As a result, these suppliers may stop supplying us materials and equipment, limit the allocation of supply and equipment to us due to increased industry demand or significantly increase their prices at any time with little or no advance notice. Our reliance on sole source suppliers or a limited number of suppliers could result in delivery problems, reduced control over product pricing and quality, and our inability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. Some of our suppliers may experience financial difficulties that could prevent them from supplying us materials, or equipment used in the design and manufacture of our products. In addition, our suppliers, including our sole source suppliers, may experience manufacturing delays or shut downs due to circumstances beyond their control such as labor issues, political unrest or natural disasters. Our suppliers, including our sole source suppliers, could also determine to discontinue the manufacture of materials, components, equipment or tools that may be difficult for us to obtain from alternative sources. In addition, the suppliers of design tools that we rely on may not maintain or advance the capabilities of their tools in a manner sufficient to meet the technological requirements for us to design advanced products or provide such tools to us at reasonable prices. Further, the industry in which our suppliers operate is subject to a trend of consolidation. To the extent this trend continues, we may become dependent on even fewer suppliers to meet our material and equipment needs. In the event we need to establish relationships with additional suppliers, doing so may be a time-consuming process, and there are no assurances that we would be able to enter into necessary arrangements with these additional suppliers in time to avoid supply constraints in sole sourced components.. Any supply deficiencies or industry allocation shortages relating to the quantities of materials, equipment or tools we use to design and manufacture our products could materially and adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. Lead times for the purchase of certain materials, equipment and tools from suppliers have increased and in some instances have exceeded the lead times provided to us by our customers. In some cases, these lead time increases have limited our ability to respond to or meet customer demand. We have in the past and may in the future, experience delays or reductions in supply shipments, which could reduce our revenue and profitability. In addition, potential regulatory changes, including in the United States, could in the future prohibit, or increase our costs relating to, the use of suppliers in certain regions. If key components or materials are unavailable, our costs would increase and our revenue would decline.. Our revenue growth rate in prior periods is not likely to be indicative of our future growth or performance.. Our revenue growth rate in prior periods is not likely to be indicative of our future growth or performance. We experienced revenue growth rates of 100% and 63% in 2016 and 2015, respectively, in each case compared to the immediately preceding year. Conversely, our 2017 revenue declined 19% as compared to the preceding year. The revenue growth rates we experienced in 2016 and 2015 are not likely to be repeated in future periods. Our revenue for any prior quarterly or annual period should not be relied upon as any indication of our future revenue or revenue growth. If we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. 19. We may not be able to maintain or improve our gross margins.. We may not be able to maintain or improve our gross margins. Factors such as slow introductions of new products, our failure to effectively reduce the cost of existing products, our failure to maintain or improve our product mix or pricing, changes in customer demand or share allocation, annual, semi-annual or quarterly price reductions and pricing discounts required under the terms of our customer contracts, pricing pressure resulting from increased competition, the availability of superior, 'good enough' or lower-cost technologies, market consolidation or the potential for future macroeconomic or market volatility to reduce sales volumes have the potential to adversely impact our gross margins. Our gross margins could also be adversely affected by unfavorable production yields or variances, increases in or the inability to secure appropriate periodic decreases in costs of components and materials, the timing changes in our inventory, warranty costs and related returns, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, potential inability to reduce manufacturing costs in response to any decrease in our revenue and possible exposure to inventory valuation reserves. Our competitors have a history of reducing their prices to increase or avoid losing market share, and we may have to reduce our prices to continue to effectively compete. If we are unable to maintain or improve our gross margins, our financial results will be adversely affected.. We have had a history of operating losses, and we may not maintain or increase our profitability.. Although we were profitable in the years ended December 31, 2014 through 2017, we incurred operating losses in 2009 through 2013 and again in the second quarter of 2017. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis and have experienced variability on a quarter to quarter basis. If we are unable to maintain profitability, the market value of our stock may decline, and investors in our common stock could lose all or a part of their investment.. We are subject to government regulation, including import, export, economic sanctions, and anti-corruption laws and regulations that may limit our sales opportunities, expose us to liability and increase our costs.. Our products are subject to export controls, including the U.S. Department of Commerce's Export Administration Regulations and economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Controls, and similar laws and regulations that apply in other jurisdictions in which we distribute or sell our products. Export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations include restrictions and prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products and on our transfer of parts, components, and related technical information and know-how to certain countries, regions, governments, persons and entities. For example, in 2016, the U.S. Department of Commerce published a final rule that added ZTE to the \"Entity List\" for actions contrary to the national security and foreign policy interests of the United States, which had the practical effect of preventing us from making any sales to ZTE for a period of time until a temporary general license was issued, and subsequently extended, by the U.S. Department of Commerce. The temporary license enabled us to resume sales to ZTE until a settlement agreement between the U.S. Department of Commerce and ZTE was ultimately reached  and ZTE was removed from the Entity List. There can be no guarantee that the U.S. Department of Commerce will not take future regulatory action that may materially interfere with our ability to make sales to ZTE or other customers, in particular in China. Even without such action by the U.S. Department of Commerce, we would be prohibited from exporting our products to any foreign recipient if we have knowledge that a violation of U.S. export regulations has occurred, is about to occur, or is intended to occur in connection with the item. The loss or temporary loss of such customers as a result of future regulatory limitation could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, our association with such customers could subject us to actual or perceived reputational harm among current or prospective investors in our common stock, suppliers or customers, customers of our customers, other parties doing business with us, or the general public. Any such reputational harm could result in the loss of investors in our common stock, suppliers or customers, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. In addition, various countries regulate the importation of certain products, through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products. The exportation, re-exportation, transfers within foreign countries and importation of our products, including by our partners, must comply with these laws and regulations, with any violations subject to reputational harm, government investigations, penalties and/or a denial or curtailment of our ability to export our products. Complying with export control and sanctions laws for a particular sale may be time consuming, may increase our costs and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Although we take precautions to prevent our products from being provided in violation of such laws and regulations, if we are found to be in violation of U.S. sanctions or export control laws, we and the individuals working for us could incur substantial fines and penalties. Changes in export, sanctions or import laws or regulations may delay the introduction and sale of our products in international markets, require us to spend resources to seek necessary government authorizations or to develop different versions of our products, or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, regions, governments, persons or entities altogether, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. 20. We are also subject to various domestic and international anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, as well as other similar anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering or making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining, retaining or directing business. Our exposure for violating these laws and regulations increases as our international presence expands and as we increase sales and operations in foreign jurisdictions.. We may not be able to manufacture our products in volumes or at times sufficient to meet customer demands, which could result in delayed or lost revenue and harm to our reputation.. Given the high level of sophisticated functionality embedded in our products, our manufacturing processes are complex and often involve more than one manufacturer. This complexity may result in lower manufacturing yields and may make it more difficult for our current and future contract manufacturers to scale to higher production volumes. If we are unable to manufacture our products in volumes or at times sufficient to meet demand, our customers could postpone or cancel orders or seek alternative suppliers for these products, or lower cost, easier to manufacture competitive products, which would harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations.. If we do not effectively expand and train our direct sales force, we may be unable to add new customers or increase sales to our existing customers, and our business will be adversely affected.. We depend on our direct sales force to increase sales with existing customers and to obtain new customers. As such, we have invested and will continue to invest in our sales organization. In recent periods, we have been adding personnel and other resources to our sales function as we focus on growing our business, entering new markets and increasing our market share, and we expect to incur additional expenses in expanding our sales personnel in order to achieve revenue growth. There is significant competition for sales and sales operations personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, retaining and integrating sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth, particularly in international markets. New hires require significant training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Additional personnel may not become productive as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire, retain or integrate into our corporate culture sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. If we are unable to hire, integrate and train a sufficient number of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel we hire are not successful in increasing sales to our existing customer base or obtaining new customers, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be adversely affected.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive.. The market for high-speed interconnect is highly competitive. We are aware of a number of companies that have developed or are developing coherent DSP ASICs, coherent and non-coherent PICs, 100 Gbps and 400 Gbps modules and indium phosphide based optics, among other technologies, that compete directly with some or all of our current and proposed product offerings.. Competitors may be able to more quickly and effectively:. • develop or respond either directly or in partnership with other market participants to new technologies or technical standards;. • react to changing customer requirements and expectations;. • devote needed resources to the development, production, promotion and sale of products;. • attain high manufacturing yields on new product designs;. • establish and take advantage of operations in lower-cost regions;. • bring relevant products to the market or enable their customers to bring relevant products to the market through a faster integration cycle; and. • deliver competitive products at lower prices, with lower gross margins or at lower costs than our products.. In order to expand market acceptance of our products, we must differentiate our products from those of our competition while continuing to meet the changing needs of our customers. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in making this differentiation or increasing acceptance of our products as we have limited resources dedicated to marketing of our products. In addition, we may take other steps to expand market acceptance of our products, including through strategic. 21. transactions or otherwise, which steps may not be successful and may lead to a decrease in our revenues either in the short-term or long-term. Established companies in related industries or newly funded companies targeting markets we serve, such as semiconductor manufacturers and data communications providers, may also have significantly more resources than we do and may in the future develop and offer competing products. Further, companies that have historically been competitors or industry participants on the component level have in the past and may continue to establish joint ventures or other strategic partnerships to compete with our optical interconnect modules. All of these risks may be increased if the market were to further consolidate through mergers or other business combinations between our competitors or if more capital is invested in the market to create additional competitors.. We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors and aggressive competition in the market may result in lower prices for our products and/or decreased gross margins. New technology and investments from existing competitors and competitive threats from newly funded companies may erode our technology and product advantages and slow our overall growth and profitability. Any such development could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to successfully manage our business if we are unable to improve our internal systems, processes and controls.. In order to effectively manage our operations and any future growth, we need to continue to improve our internal systems, processes and controls. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems, processes and controls in an efficient or timely manner. In addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. We may experience difficulties in managing improvements to our systems or processes and controls, which could impair our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner, causing us to lose customers, limit us to smaller deployments of our products or increase our technical support costs.. Most of our long-term customer contracts do not commit customers to specified purchase commitments, and our customers may decrease, cancel or delay their purchases at any time with little or no advance notice to us.. Most of our customers purchase our products pursuant to individual purchase orders or contracts that do not contain purchase commitments. Although some of our customers have committed to purchase a specified share of their required volume for a particular product from us, monitoring and enforcing these commitments can be difficult. Some customers provide us with their expected, non-binding forecasts for our products several months in advance, but customers may decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place, and the impact of any such actions may be intensified given our dependence on a small number of large customers. If any of our major customers decrease, stop or delay purchasing our products, or change the mix of our products that they are purchasing, for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed. For example, one of our larger customers provided a non-binding forecast for 2017, but actual orders were approximately 40% lower than the forecasted amount. Also, several of our customers have historically experienced period-to-period demand variability or elected to defer purchases scheduled for the fourth quarter into the first quarter of the following year, resulting in a decrease in our anticipated revenue during the fourth quarter. Additionally, in the event that any of our customers lose significant market share with one or more customers within their customer base, those losses could pass through to us and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Cancellation or delays of such orders may cause us to fail to achieve our short-term and long-term financial and operating goals and result in excess and obsolete inventory.. Our results of operations may suffer if we do not effectively manage our inventory, and we may continue to incur inventory-related charges.. We need to manage our inventory of component parts and finished goods effectively to meet changing customer requirements. Accurately forecasting customers' product needs is difficult. Our product demand forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. In the event we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, we could hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we could forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships.. Also, due to our industry's use of inventory management techniques, such as direct order fulfillment, to reduce inventory levels and the period of time inventory is held, any disruption in the supply chain could lead to more immediate shortages in product or component supply. Additionally, any enterprise system failures, including implementing new systems or upgrading existing systems that help us manage our financial, purchasing, inventory, sales, invoicing and product return functions, could harm our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other billing and logistical processes.. 22. Some of our products and supplies have in the past, and may in the future, become obsolete or be deemed excess while in inventory due to rapidly changing customer specifications, changes to product structure, components or bills of material as a result of engineering changes, or a decrease in customer demand. We also have exposure to contractual liabilities to our contract manufacturers for inventories purchased by them on our behalf, based on our forecasted requirements, which may become excess or obsolete. Our inventory balances also represent an investment of cash. To the extent our inventory turns are slower than we anticipate based on historical practice, our cash conversion cycle extends and more of our cash remains invested in working capital. If we are not able to manage our inventory effectively, we may need to write down the value of some of our existing inventory or write off non-saleable or obsolete inventory. We have from time to time incurred significant inventory-related charges. Any such charges we incur in future periods could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Increasingly, our customers may require that we ship our finished products to a central location, which is not controlled by us. If that facility is damaged, or if our relationship with that facility deteriorates, we may suffer losses or be forced to find an alternate facility. In addition, revenue is only recognized once our customers take delivery of the products from this location, rather than when we ship them, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We often lack insight into when customers will take delivery of our products, making it difficult to forecast our revenue.. The industry in which we operate is subject to significant cyclicality.. Industries focused on semiconductor and optical network technologies can be highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change and price erosion, evolving technical standards, increasing effects of competition, frequent new product introductions and technology displacement, short product life cycles both for semiconductors and optical technologies and for many of the end products in which they are used, and changes in end market demand, as the industry has recently experienced in China. In addition, product demand in the markets in which we compete is tied to the aggregate capital expenditures of telecommunications and network and content service providers as they build out and upgrade their network infrastructure.  Capital expenditures can be highly cyclical due to the importance and focus of local initiatives, such as the ongoing telecommunications build out and upgrade in China, government funding and other factors, thus resulting in wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. In addition, foreign governments may pursue internal programs and policies to develop domestic technologies that reduce foreign customers' demand for our products.  For example, China's Made in China 2025 program aims to build industries in numerous technological sectors, including 5G mobile communications, among others. From time to time, these factors, together with changes in general economic conditions, have caused significant industry upturns and downturns that have had a direct impact on the financial stability of our customers, their customers and our suppliers. Periods of industry downturns have been characterized by diminished demand for products, unanticipated declines in telecommunications and communications system capital expenditures, industry consolidation, excess capacity compared to demand, high inventory levels and periods of inventory adjustment, under-utilization of manufacturing capacity, changes in revenue mix and erosion of average selling prices, any of which could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect our business to continue to be subject to cyclical downturns, such as the one experienced throughout 2017 in China, even when overall economic conditions are relatively stable. To the extent we cannot offset recessionary periods or periods of reduced growth that may occur in the industry or in our target markets in particular through increased market share or otherwise, our business can be adversely affected, revenue may decline and our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, in any future economic downturn or periods of inflationary increase we may be unable to reduce our costs quickly enough to maintain profitability levels.. If our customers do not qualify our manufacturing lines or the manufacturing lines of our subcontractors for volume shipments, our operating results could suffer.. Our manufacturing lines have passed our qualification standards, as well as our technical standards. However, our customers may also require that our manufacturing lines pass their specific qualification standards and that we, and any subcontractors that we may use, be registered under international quality standards. In addition, many of our customers require that we maintain our ISO certification. In the event we are unable to maintain process controls required to maintain ISO certification, or in the event we fail to pass the ISO certification audit for any reason, we could lose our ISO certification. In addition, we may encounter quality control issues in the future as a result of relocating our manufacturing lines or ramping new products to full volume production. We may be unable to obtain customer qualification of our or our subcontractors' manufacturing lines or we may experience delays in obtaining customer qualification of our or our subcontractors' manufacturing lines. Such delays or failure to obtain qualifications would harm our operating results and customer relationships. If we introduce new contract manufacturers and move any production lines from existing internal or external facilities, the new production lines will likely need to be re-qualified with our customers. Any delay in the qualification of our or our subcontractors' manufacturing lines may adversely affect our operations and financial results. Any delay in the qualification or requalification of our or our subcontractors' manufacturing lines may delay the manufacturing of our products. 23. or require us to divert resources away from other areas of our business, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results.. Acquisitions or other strategic transactions that we may pursue in the future, whether or not consummated, could result in operating and financial difficulties.. We may in the future acquire businesses or assets or engage in other strategic transactions in an effort to increase our growth, enhance our ability to compete, complement our product offerings, enter new and adjacent markets, obtain access to additional technical resources, enhance our intellectual property rights, expand market acceptance of our products or pursue other competitive opportunities. If we seek acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices we consider appropriate. We are in an industry that is actively consolidating and, as a result, there is no guarantee that we will successfully and satisfactorily bid against third parties, including competitors, if we identify a target we seek to acquire.. We cannot readily predict the timing or size of our future acquisitions or other strategic transactions, or the success of such acquisitions or transactions. Failure to successfully execute on any future acquisition or other strategic transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. To the extent that we consummate acquisitions, we may face financial risks as a result, including increased costs associated with merged or acquired operations, increased indebtedness, economic dilution to gross and operating profit and earnings per share, or unanticipated costs and liabilities, including the impairment of assets and expenses associated with restructuring costs and reserves, the failure to realized expected synergies and unforeseen accounting charges. We would also face operational risks, such as difficulties in integrating the operations, retention of key personnel and our ability to maintain and support products of the acquired businesses, disrupting their or our ongoing business, increasing the complexity of our business, failing to successfully further develop the combined, acquired or remaining technology, and impairing management resources and management's relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in their ownership and management. Further, the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, as well as the integration of an acquired business, may divert management time and other resources.. If we are unable to successfully carry out any future acquisition or other strategic transaction, our business, financial condition and prospects for growth could suffer. In addition, we may not realize the benefits of any future acquisition or other strategic transaction to the extent anticipated and the perception of the effectiveness of our management team and our company may suffer in the marketplace. Further, even if we are able to achieve the long-term benefits associated with any future acquisition or other strategic transaction, our short-term financial conditions may be materially and adversely affected.. We may need additional equity, debt or other financing in the future, which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms, or at all, and any additional financing may result in restrictions on our operations or substantial dilution to our stockholders.. We may need to raise funds in the future, for example, to develop new technologies, expand our business or acquire complementary businesses. We may try to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships or other arrangements. Our ability to obtain debt or equity funding will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, interest rates, our operating performance and investor interest. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funding is not available, we may be required to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies and reducing our product development efforts, or forgo acquisition opportunities. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, then the issuance could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these new securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. In addition, any preferred equity issuance or debt financing that we may obtain in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions.. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our stock.. The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as described in Part II, Item 7, \"Management's. 24. Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, inventories and the related contract manufacturing liabilities and income taxes. If our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, our results of operations may be adversely affected and may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our stock.. We may face product liability and other types of claims, which could be expensive and time consuming and result in substantial damages to us and increases in our insurance rates.. Despite quality assurance measures, defects may occur in our products. The occurrence of any defects in our products could give rise to product liability or epidemic failure claims, which could divert management's attention from our core business, be expensive to defend, result in the loss of key customer contracts and result in sizable damage awards against us and, depending on the nature or scope of any network outage caused by a defect in or epidemic failure related to our products, could also harm our reputation. Our current insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover these claims. Moreover, in the future, we may not be able to obtain insurance in amount or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry and reduce product sales. We would need to pay any product losses in excess of our insurance coverage out of cash reserves, harming our financial condition and adversely affecting our financial performance and operating results.. In addition, we could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of the pending securities class action and derivative lawsuits brought against us, certain of our executive officers and directors and certain other defendants, as described under Part I, Item 3 \"Legal Proceedings\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or any other litigation in the future. Class action, derivative lawsuits and other securities litigation, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs, damage, indemnification or settlement awards and divert management's attention and resources from running our business, which could materially harm our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business and operating results may be adversely affected by natural disasters, health epidemics or other catastrophic events beyond our control.. Our internal manufacturing headquarters and new product introduction labs, design facilities, assembly and test facilities, and supply chain, and those of our contract manufacturers, are subject to risks associated with natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fires, tsunami, typhoons, volcanic activity, floods and health epidemics as well as other events beyond our control such as power loss, facilities structural damage, telecommunications failures and uncertainties arising out of terrorist attacks in the United States and armed conflicts or terrorist attacks overseas. The majority of our semiconductor products are currently fabricated and assembled in Japan, Singapore and Taiwan.   The majority of the internal and outsourced assembly and test facilities we utilize or plan to utilize are located in China, New Hampshire and Thailand, and some of our internal design, assembly and test facilities are located in California (design only), New Jersey and Massachusetts, regions with severe weather activity and, in the case of California, above average seismic activity. In addition, our research and development personnel are concentrated primarily in our headquarters in Maynard, Massachusetts and in our research center in Holmdel, New Jersey. Any catastrophic loss or significant damage to any of these facilities or facilities we use in the future would likely disrupt our operations, delay production, and adversely affect our product development schedules, shipments and revenue. In addition, any such catastrophic loss or significant damage could result in significant expense to repair or replace the facility and could significantly curtail our research and development efforts in a particular product area or primary market, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and operating results.. Breaches of our cybersecurity systems could degrade our ability to conduct our business operations and deliver products to our customers, compromise the integrity of the software embedded in our products, result in significant data losses and the theft of our intellectual property, damage our reputation, expose us to liability to third parties and require us to incur significant additional costs to maintain the security of our networks and data.. We increasingly depend upon our information technology, or IT, systems to conduct virtually all of our business operations, ranging from our internal operations and product development and manufacturing activities to our marketing and sales efforts and communications with our customers and business partners. Computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security, or that of our website and email services, and misappropriate our proprietary information, provide false or misleading instructions to our personnel, embed malicious code in our products or cause interruptions of our service. Because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be. 25. recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs\" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. We have also outsourced a number of our business functions to third-party contractors, including our manufacturers and logistics providers, and our business operations also depend, in part, on the success of our contractors' own cybersecurity measures and adherence to their contractual obligations to us, including in connection with their use of and access to our systems. Additionally, we depend upon our employees and contractors to appropriately handle confidential data and deploy our IT resources in safe and secure fashion that does not expose our network systems to security breaches and the loss of data. Accordingly, if our cybersecurity systems and those of our contractors fail to protect against unauthorized access, sophisticated cyberattacks and the mishandling of data by our employees and contractors, our ability to conduct our business effectively could be damaged in a number of ways, including:. • sensitive data regarding our employees or business, including intellectual property and other proprietary data, could be stolen;. • our electronic communications systems, including email and other methods, could be disrupted, and our ability to conduct our business operations could be seriously damaged until such systems can be restored;. • our ability to process customer orders and deliver products could be degraded or disrupted, resulting in delays in revenue recognition; and. • defects and security vulnerabilities could be introduced into the software embedded in or used in the development of our products, thereby damaging the reputation and perceived reliability and security of our products.. Should any of the above events occur, we could be subject to significant claims for liability from our customers and regulatory actions from governmental agencies. In addition, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could be compromised and our reputation and competitive position could be significantly harmed. Additionally, we could incur significant costs in order to upgrade our cybersecurity systems and remediate damages. Consequently, our financial performance and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could subject us to liabilities, increase our costs or restrict our business or operations in the future.. Our manufacturing operations and our products are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate or sell our products. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, employee health and safety and the use of hazardous materials in, and the recycling of, our products. Failure to comply with present and future environmental, health or safety requirements, or the identification of contamination, could cause us to incur substantial costs, monetary fines, civil or criminal penalties and curtailment of operations. In addition, these laws and regulations have increasingly become more stringent over time. The identification of presently unidentified environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement of current environmental, health and safety requirements by regulatory agencies, the enactment of more stringent laws and regulations or other unanticipated events could restrict our ability to use or expand our facilities, require us to incur additional expenses or require us to modify our manufacturing processes or the contents of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in industry standards and regulations could make our products obsolete, which would cause our net revenues and results of operations to suffer.. We design our products to conform to regulations established by governments and to standards set by industry standards bodies worldwide. Various industry organizations are currently considering whether and to what extent to create standards applicable to our current products or those under development. Because certain of our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards, if competing or new standards emerge that are preferred by our customers, we may have to make significant expenditures to develop new products. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible, or industry groups adopt standards or governments issue regulations with which our products are not compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers and our net revenues and results of operations would suffer.. If we do not achieve the anticipated financial, operational and effective tax rate efficiencies expected from our corporate tax structure, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 26. In 2015, we implemented a reorganization of our corporate structure and intercompany relationships to more closely align our corporate structure with the international nature of our business activities. This corporate restructuring has allowed us to achieve financial and operational efficiencies and to reduce our overall effective tax rate through changes in our international procurement, manufacturing and sales operations, and in the ways we develop, own and use certain intellectual property. This corporate restructuring has also allowed us to achieve financial and operational efficiencies. We cannot provide assurance that these tax benefits and efficiencies will continue into future periods.  Our efforts in connection with this corporate restructuring have required and will continue to require us to incur expenses for which we may not realize related benefits.  If any of the tax benefits is challenged by the applicable taxing authorities upon audit or if there are adverse changes in domestic or international tax laws, including any legislation enacted in pursuance of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Initiative, described below, our results of operations may be negatively affected. In addition, if we do not operate our business in a manner that is consistent with this corporate restructuring or any applicable tax laws, we may fail to achieve the financial, operational and effective tax rate efficiencies that we anticipate and our results of operations may be negatively affected.. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted in December 2017, makes far-ranging changes to the existing U.S. corporate tax system. This legislation establishes a quasi-territorial system for taxing foreign-source income of multinational corporations and, among other items and with varying effective dates, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, an additional minimum tax measured in part by \"base erosion payments\" involving certain members of affiliated groups, significant limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and changes to the rules governing taxable and tax-free cross-border transfers of intangible property. While we are still in the process of analyzing the effects of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we anticipate it will negatively affect the financial, operational and effective tax rate efficiencies of this corporate restructuring in 2017 and subsequent years.. The implementation of our corporate restructuring increases the likelihood that unfavorable tax law changes, unfavorable government review of our tax returns, changes in our geographic earnings mix or imposition of withholding taxes on repatriated earnings could have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate and our operating results.. We have expanded and will likely continue to expand our operations into multiple non-U.S. jurisdictions in connection with our recent corporate restructuring, including those having tax rates higher and lower than those we are subject to in the United States. As a result, our effective tax rate will be influenced by the amounts of income and expense attributed to each such jurisdiction, which is materially affected by our valuation and pricing of intercompany transactions, both of which can be based on significant management assumptions or estimates. If such amounts were to change so as to increase the amounts of our net income subject to taxation in higher tax jurisdictions, or if we were to commence operations in jurisdictions assessing relatively higher tax rates, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected.  As a result of our corporate restructuring, we will be subject to periodic audits or other reviews by tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our activities in the future and there is a risk that the tax authorities could challenge our tax positions, including the assumptions and estimates on which we base the valuation and pricing of intercompany transactions.. The recently-enacted U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act establishes a quasi-territorial system for taxing foreign-source income of multinational corporations and other tax proposals are being considered by legislative bodies in some of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate that could negatively affect our effective tax rate and other tax liabilities. While we are still in the process of analyzing the effects of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we anticipate it will negatively affect our financial, operational and effective tax rate efficiencies for 2017 and subsequent years.. We cannot predict the form or timing of potential legislative changes, but any newly enacted tax law could have a material adverse impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. This could result in additional tax liabilities or other adjustments to our historical results.. The final determination of our income tax liability may be materially different from our income tax provision.. The final determination of our income tax liability, which includes the impact of our corporate restructuring, may be materially different from our income tax provision. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and, as a result of our corporate restructuring, have become subject to income taxes in international jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are some transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Additionally, our calculations of income taxes are based on our interpretations of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file or will file as a result of the proposed corporate restructuring. Although we believe our tax estimates, which include the impact of anticipated tax benefits in connection with our corporate restructuring, are and will be appropriate, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination is made.. 27. We are also subject to periodic examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service in the United States and will be subject to periodic examination of our income tax returns by taxing authorities in other tax jurisdictions. We assess and will continue to assess on a regular basis the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. The outcomes from these examinations may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Furthermore, our provision for income tax could increase as we further expand our international operations, adopt new products or undertake intercompany transactions in light of acquisitions, changing tax laws, expiring rulings and our current and anticipated business and operational requirements.. Our ability to utilize certain net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards may be limited under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code.. As of December 31, 2017, we had net operating loss carryforward amounts, or NOLs, of approximately $41.8 million and $65.2 million for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes, respectively, and tax credit carryforward amounts of approximately $15.9 million and $11.9 million for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes, respectively. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards will expire at various dates beginning in 2029 through 2037. The federal and state tax credit carryforwards will expire at various dates beginning in 2018 through 2037 and $0.4 million of such carryforwards will expire between 2018 and 2020 if not used. Utilization of these net operating loss and tax credit carryforward amounts could be subject to a substantial annual limitation if the ownership changes under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions are triggered by changes in the ownership of our capital stock. Such an annual limitation could result in the expiration of the net operating loss and tax credit carryforward amounts before utilization. Our existing NOLs may be subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes, including in connection with our initial public offering, or IPO, a follow-on offering in 2016, and any future follow-on public offerings. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change. There is also a risk that due to regulatory and legislative changes, such as suspensions on the use of NOLs, or other unforeseen reasons, our existing NOLs could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. Additionally, state NOLs generated in one state generally cannot be used to offset income generated in another state. For these reasons, we may be limited in our ability to fully utilize the tax benefit from the use of our NOLs, even if our profitability would otherwise allow for it.. We are a multinational organization faced with increasingly complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions, including in the United States.. As a multinational organization, we are subject to taxation in jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operating results. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax returns and impose additional tax, interest and penalties, and the authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries, any of which could have a material impact on us and the results of our operations.. There is growing pressure in many jurisdictions (including the United States) and from multinational organizations such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD, and the European Union, or EU, to amend existing international tax rules in order to render them more responsive to current global business practices.  For example, the OECD has published measures for reform of the international tax rules as a product of its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or BEPS, initiative, which aims to standardize and modernize global tax policy and was endorsed by the G20 finance ministers.  Many of the initiatives in the BEPS package will require amendments to the domestic tax legislation of various jurisdictions.  Separately, the EU is asserting that a number of country-specific favorable tax regimes and rulings in certain member states may violate, or have violated, EU law, and may require rebates of some or all of the associated tax benefits to be paid by benefited taxpayers in particular case. Depending on the final form of the BEPS guidance and the legislation ultimately enacted by the OECD members, BEPS could have material adverse consequences on our effective tax rate, the amount of tax we pay and on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, while we are still in the process of analyzing the effects of the recently-enacted U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we anticipate it will negatively affect our financial, operational and effective tax rate efficiencies for 2017 and subsequent years.. Other legislative and regulatory proposals may also affect our tax position or our business practices and operations, depending on whether and in what form they may ultimately take effect. Although we monitor these developments, due to the unpredictability and interdependency of these potential changes, it is very difficult to assess to what extent these changes may. 28. be implemented in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we conduct our business or to what extent these changes may impact the way in which we conduct our business or our effective tax rate due to the unpredictability and interdependency of these potential changes. Changes in tax laws and related regulations and practices could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, effective tax rate and financial position and results of operations.. We are exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio.. Credit ratings and pricing of our domestic and international investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. As a result, the value and liquidity of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although we have not realized any significant losses on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in a significant realized loss.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in expensive litigation or require us to obtain a license to use the technology from third parties, or we may be prohibited from selling certain products in the future.. Companies in the industry in which we operate frequently are sued or receive informal claims of patent infringement or infringement of other intellectual property rights. We have, from time to time, received such claims from companies, including from competitors, suppliers and customers, some of whom have substantially more resources and have been developing relevant technologies for much longer than us.. Third parties may in the future assert claims against us concerning our existing products or with respect to future products under development, or with respect to products that we may acquire through acquisitions. We have entered into and may in the future enter into indemnification obligations in favor of our customers that could be triggered upon an allegation or finding that we are infringing other parties' proprietary rights. If we do infringe a third party's rights and are unable to provide a sufficient work around, we may need to negotiate with holders of those rights in order to obtain a license to those rights or otherwise settle any infringement claim. A party that makes a claim of infringement against us may obtain an injunction preventing us from shipping products containing the allegedly infringing technology. We have from time to time received notices from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property and, in some cases, have entered into license agreements with such third parties with respect to such intellectual property. Any license agreements that we wish to enter into the future with respect to intellectual property rights may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms, including any that restrict our ability to utilize the licensed technology in specified markets or geographic locations, could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, in the event we are granted such a license, it is possible the license would be non-exclusive and other parties, including competitors, may be able to utilize such technology. Our larger competitors may be able to obtain licenses or cross-license their technology on better terms than we can, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, our larger competitors may be able to buy such technology and preclude us from licensing or using such technology.. We may not in all cases be able to resolve allegations of infringement through licensing arrangements, settlement, alternative designs or otherwise. We may take legal action to determine the validity and scope of the third-party rights or to defend against any allegations of infringement. Holders of intellectual property rights could become more aggressive in alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights and we may be the subject of such claims asserted by a third party. For example, as described further in Part I, Item 3 \"Legal Proceedings\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, on January 21, 2016, ViaSat, Inc. filed a suit against us alleging, among other things, breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and misappropriation of trade secrets. In the course of pursuing any of these means or defending against any lawsuits filed against us, we could incur significant costs and diversion of our resources and our management's attention. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, it is unlikely that we could increase our prices to cover such costs. In addition, such claims could result in significant penalties or injunctions that could prevent us from selling some of our products in certain markets or result in settlements or judgments that require payment of significant royalties or damages.. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand.. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, design rights, trade secrets, trademarks and know-how. We maintain a program of identifying technology appropriate for patent and. 29. trade secret protection. Our practice is to require employees and consultants to execute non-disclosure and proprietary rights agreements upon commencement of employment or consulting arrangements. These agreements acknowledge our exclusive ownership of all intellectual property developed by the individuals during their work for us and require that all proprietary information disclosed will remain confidential. Such agreements may not be enforceable in full or in part in all jurisdictions and any breach could have a negative effect on our business and our remedy for such breach may be limited.. Despite our efforts, these measures can only provide limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products, may breach our cybersecurity defenses or may otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in other countries are uncertain and may afford little or no effective protection for our proprietary rights. Consequently, we may be unable to prevent our intellectual property rights from being exploited abroad. Policing the unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive.. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to developing and protecting their technology or intellectual property rights than we do. In addition, our attempts to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights may be further limited as our employees may be recruited by our current or future competitors and may take with them significant knowledge of our proprietary information. Consequently, others may develop services and methodologies that are similar or superior to our services and methodologies or may design around our intellectual property.. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation that could divert our resources.. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in our industry. As we continue to gain greater market visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. The risk of patent litigation has been amplified by the increase in the number of a type of patent holder, which we refer to as a non-practicing entity, whose sole business is to assert such claims. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending any intellectual property litigation. If we sue to enforce our rights or are sued by a third party that claims that our products infringe its rights, the litigation could be expensive and could divert our management resources.. Confidentiality arrangements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information.. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our technology, business operations and business plans. In order to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, we rely in significant part on confidentiality arrangements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors, advisers, channel partners, resellers and customers. These arrangements may not be effective to prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, if others independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, we would not be able to assert trade secret rights against such parties. Effective trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available or where we have employees or independent contractors. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and employment laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employees or other parties.. We could in the future be subject to claims that employees or contractors, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of our competitors or other parties. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending against such claims, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies or features that are essential to our products, if such technologies or features are found to. 30. incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of these parties. In addition, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to develop, market and support potential products or enhancements, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. We license technology from third parties, and our inability to maintain those licenses could harm our business.. We incorporate technology, including software, which we license from third parties into our products. We cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our licensors have sufficient rights to the licensed intellectual property in all jurisdictions in which we may sell our products. Some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated for convenience by them. If we are unable to continue to license any of this technology because of intellectual property infringement claims brought by third parties against our licensors or against us, or if we are unable to continue our license agreements or enter into new licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to develop and sell products containing that technology would be severely limited, and our business could be harmed. Additionally, if we are unable to license necessary technology from third parties, we may be forced to acquire or develop alternative technology of lower quality or performance standards. This would limit and delay our ability to offer new or competitive products and increase our costs of production. As a result, our margins, market share and operating results could be significantly harmed.. The use of open source software in our offerings may expose us to additional risks and harm our intellectual property.. Open source software is typically freely accessible, usable and modifiable. Certain open source software licenses require a user who intends to distribute the open source software as a component of the user's software to disclose publicly part or all of the source code to the user's software. In addition, certain open source software licenses require the user of such software to make any derivative works of the open source code available to others on unfavorable terms or at no cost. This can subject previously proprietary software to open source license terms.. We monitor and control our use of open source software that goes into or is used by our products in an effort to avoid unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to successfully commercialize our products and believe that our compliance with the obligations under the various applicable licenses has mitigated the risks that we have triggered any such conditions or restrictions. However, such use may have inadvertently occurred in the development and offering of proprietary software on our products. Additionally, if a third-party software provider has incorporated certain types of open source software into software that we have licensed from such third party, we could be subject to the obligations and requirements of the applicable open source software licenses. This could harm our intellectual property position and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The terms of many open source software licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that those licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to successfully commercialize our products. For example, certain open source software licenses may be interpreted to require that we offer the software on our products that include the open source software for no cost; that we make available the source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software (or that we grant third parties the right to decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer, or otherwise derive such source code); that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license; or that otherwise impose limitations, restrictions or conditions on our ability to use, license, host, or distribute our products in a manner that limits our ability to successfully commercialize our products.. We could, therefore, be subject to claims alleging that we have not complied with the restrictions or limitations of the applicable open source software license terms or that our use of open source software infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. In that event, we could incur significant legal expenses, be subject to significant damages, be enjoined from further sale and distribution of the software on our products that uses the open source software, be required to pay a license fee, be forced to reengineer the software on our products, or be required to comply with the foregoing conditions of the open source software licenses (including the release of the source code to our proprietary software), any of which could adversely affect our business. Even if these claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor or without significant cash settlements, the time and resources necessary to resolve them could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation.. Additionally, the use of open source software can lead to greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source software does not come with warranties or other contractual protections regarding indemnification, infringement claims or the quality of the code.. 31. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and investors in our common stock may be unable to sell their shares at or above the price at which they were purchased.. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies, including technology companies in the industry in which we operate, have been highly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include:. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • volatility in the market price and trading volume of comparable companies, in particular optical industry peer companies;. • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts covering our industry or issuing market projection reports;. • announcements of technological innovations, new products, strategic alliances or other transactions, or significant agreements by us or by our competitors;. • announcements by our customers regarding significant increases or decreases in capital expenditures and their results of operations;. • departure of key personnel;. • litigation involving us or that may be perceived as having an impact on our business;. • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions and trends, including the economic slowdown and delayed deployment and network expansion in China and the uncertainty arising from the June 2016 referendum vote in the United Kingdom in favor of exiting the European Union and the subsequent formal notification by the United Kingdom of its intention to withdraw from the European Union;. • investors' general perception of us;. • significant short interest in our stock;. • sales of large blocks of our stock;. • announcements regarding further industry consolidation;. • changes in regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we do business, including domestic and international tax reform; and. • actions or announcements by activist shareholders or others.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action and shareholder derivative litigation has often been brought against that company. See Part I, Item 3 \"Legal Proceedings\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information concerning litigation initiated against us and certain of our executive officers and directors and certain other defendants. Because of the volatility of our stock price, we may become the target of additional securities litigation in the future. Class action, derivative lawsuits and other securities litigation, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs, damage, indemnification or settlement awards and divert management's attention and resources from running our business, which could materially harm our reputations, financial condition and results of operations.. Our quarterly operating results or other operating metrics have fluctuated significantly, and they are likely to continue to do so, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. Our quarterly operating results and other operating metrics have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. We expect that this trend will continue as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including:. • the level of demand for our products and our ability to maintain and increase our customer base;. • the timing and success of new product introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our market;. • the mix of products sold in a quarter;. • export control laws or regulations that could impede our ability to sell our products to certain customers or other customers in certain foreign jurisdictions;. 32. • pricing pressure as a result of competition or otherwise or price discounts negotiated by our customers;. • our ability to ramp production of new products with our contract manufacturers;. • delays or disruptions in our supply or manufacturing chain;. • our ability to reduce manufacturing costs;. • errors in our forecasting of the demand for our products, which could lead to lower revenue or increased costs;. • seasonal and period-over-period buying patterns of some of our customers;. • introduction of new products, with initial sales at relatively small volumes with resulting higher product costs;. • increases in and timing of sales and marketing, research and development and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive;. • insolvency, credit, or other difficulties faced by our customers, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our products;. • insolvency, consolidation credit, or other difficulties confronting our suppliers and contract manufacturers leading to disruptions in our supply or distribution chain;. • levels of product order rescheduling, cancellations, returns and contractual price protection rights, including the impact of product quality problems on our reputation;. • adverse litigation judgments, settlements or other litigation-related costs, including with respect to the pending purported securities class action and derivative lawsuits;. • product recalls, regulatory proceedings or other adverse publicity about our products;. • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates;. • the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and other legislative and regulatory proposals to reform U.S. taxation of international business activities;. • costs related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs and possible write-downs; and. • general economic conditions in either domestic or international markets, in particular the impact of any economic slowdown in China.. Any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors above may result in significant fluctuations in our operating results.. The variability and unpredictability of our quarterly operating results or other operating metrics could result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of any analysts that cover us or investors in our common stock with respect to revenue or other operating results for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our common stock could fall substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits.. Our management team has limited experience managing a public company.. Several members of our management team have limited experience managing a publicly traded company, interacting with public company investors and complying with the increasingly complex laws pertaining to public companies. Our management team may not successfully or efficiently manage our operation as a public company subject to significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under the federal securities laws and the scrutiny of securities analysts and investors. These new obligations and constituents will require significant attention from our management team and could divert their attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Because we do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, returns to investors in our common stock will be limited to any increase in the value of our common stock.. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to retain any earnings to maintain and expand our existing operations. Accordingly, investors in our common. 33. stock must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment.. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit certain common stock investors' ability to influence corporate matters including the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval.. As of February 15, 2018, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, more than 36% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, could have significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and over the management and affairs of our company. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might affect the market price of our common stock.. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market at any time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time, subject to periodic trading restrictions imposed on our executive officers, directors and other insiders under our insider trading policy and other securities regulations.  These sales, or the market perception that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. As of February 15, 2018 we had 39,863,491 shares of common stock outstanding, all of which were available for sale, subject to any applicable volume limitations under federal securities laws with respect to affiliate sales.. In addition, as of February 15, 2018, there were 1,488,040 shares subject to outstanding options, 2,213,323 shares subject to outstanding restricted stock units, or RSUs, and an additional 4,945,682 shares reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans that will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by any applicable vesting requirements and the restrictions imposed on our affiliates under Rule 144.. Moreover, the holders of an aggregate of approximately 13,700,000 shares of our common stock as of February 15, 2018 have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file one or more registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. If we were to register these shares for resale, they could be freely sold in the public market. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Anti-takeover provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which an investor in our common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or delay attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. Our corporate governance documents include provisions:. • establishing a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms so that not all members of our board are elected at one time;. • providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause and only with a vote of the holders of at least 75% of the issued and outstanding shares of voting stock;. • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting;. • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors;. • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; and. • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers.. 34. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding voting stock from engaging in certain business combinations with us. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated by-laws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors in our common stock are willing to pay for our common stock.. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors in our common stock might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that an investor in our common stock could receive a premium for their common stock in an acquisition.. Our restated certificate provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our restated certificate provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws; or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We have incurred and expect that we will continue to incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies. These increased costs and demands could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. As a public company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and the rules and regulations of the Nasdaq Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. These requirements have increased and will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and have made and will continue to make some activities more time consuming and costly.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. Compliance with Section 404, including documentation and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting is both costly and challenging. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Furthermore, investor perceptions of our company may suffer if deficiencies are found, and this could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our stated operating results and harm our reputation.. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We have and will continue to invest resources to comply with. 35. evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment has and may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed."
