[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves significant risks, a number of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10 - K, the following discussion highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on our business, financial condition and future results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted, causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may impact the \"forward - looking\" statements described elsewhere in this Form 10 - K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in \"forward -  looking\" statements.. Risks Related to Our Business. If the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems do not achieve widespread market acceptance, we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business.. Achieving physician, patient, hospital administrator and third - party payor acceptance of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems as preferred methods of tumor treatment is crucial to our continued success. Physicians will not begin to use or increase the use of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems unless they determine, based on experience, clinical data and other factors, that the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are safe and effective alternatives to traditional treatment methods. Further, physicians may be slow to adopt new or updated versions of our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives and the evolving U.S. health care environment.. We often need to educate physicians about the use of stereotactic radiosurgery, IGRT and adaptive radiation therapy, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and their related treatment processes outweigh their costs, and help train qualified physicians in the skilled use of these systems. In addition, we also must educate prospective customers regarding the entire functionality of our radiation therapy systems and their relative benefits compared to alternative products and treatment methods. We must also increase awareness among potential patients, who are increasingly educated about treatment options and therefore impact adoption of new technologies by clinicians. We have expended and will continue to expend significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of stereotactic radiosurgery and Robotic IMRT as well as adaptive radiation therapy and IGRT generally and to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies. We cannot be sure that our products will gain significant market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense on their education.. In addition, the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are major capital purchases, and purchase decisions are greatly influenced by hospital administrators who are subject to increasing pressures to reduce costs. These and other factors, including the following, may affect the rate and level of market acceptance of each of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems:. •  the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems' price relative to other products or competing treatments;. •  our ability to develop new products and enhancements and receive regulatory clearances and approval, if required, to products in a timely manner;. •  increased scrutiny by state boards when evaluating certificates of need requested by purchasing institutions;. •  perception by patients, physicians and other members of the healthcare community of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems' safety, efficacy, efficiency and benefits compared to competing technologies or treatments;. •  willingness of physicians to adopt new techniques and the ability of physicians to acquire the skills necessary to operate the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems;. 26. •  extent of third - party coverage and reimbursement rates, particularly from Medicare, for procedures using the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems; and. •  development of new products and technologies by our competitors or new treatment alternatives.. If the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems are unable to achieve or maintain market acceptance, new orders and sales of our systems would be adversely affected, our revenue levels would decrease and our business would be harmed.. Our ability to achieve profitability depends in part on maintaining or increasing our gross margins on product sales and services, which we may not be able to achieve.. As of June 30, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of $474.3 million. We may incur net losses in the future, particularly as we improve our selling and marketing activities. Our ability to achieve and sustain long - term profitability is largely dependent on our ability to successfully market and sell the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, control our costs, and effectively manage our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve profitability and even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In the event we fail to achieve profitability, our stock price could decline.. A number of factors may adversely impact our gross margins on product sales and services, including:. •  lower than expected manufacturing yields of high cost components leading to increased manufacturing costs;. •  low production volume which will result in high levels of overhead cost per unit of production;. •  the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals;. •  increased material or labor costs;. •  increased inventory costs and liabilities for excess inventory resulting from inventory held in excess of forecasted demand;. •  increased service or warranty costs or the failure to reduce service or warranty costs;. •  increased price competition;. •  variation in the margins across products installed in a particular period;. •  changes to U.S. and foreign trade policies, including enactments of tariffs on goods imported into the U.S. and any retaliatory tariffs imposed by other countries on U.S. goods, including our products; and. •  how well we execute on our strategic and operating plans.. If we are unable to maintain or increase our gross margins on product sales and service, our results of operations could be adversely impacted, we may not achieve profitability and our stock price could decline.. 27. We have outstanding indebtedness in the form of our 3.75% Convertible Notes, Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan and may incur other debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results.. In August 2017, we issued $85.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 (the \"3.75% Convertible Notes\"). As our debt matures, we anticipate having to expend significant resources to either repay or refinance the 3.75% Convertible Notes. For example, in August 2017, in connection with the issuance of the 3.75% Convertible Notes, we (i) exchanged approximately $47.0 million aggregate principal amount of our then-outstanding 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 and 3.50% Series A Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 (collectively, the \"3.50% Convertible Notes\") for $53.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Notes and (ii) repurchased approximately $28.0 million of 3.50% Convertible Notes. If we decide to refinance the 3.75% Convertible Notes in the future, we may be required to do so on different or less favorable terms or we may be unable to refinance the 3.75% Convertible Notes at all, both of which may adversely affect our financial condition.. In June 2017, we entered into a credit and security agreement that provided us with an initial revolving credit facility (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\") of $52.0 million, which was amended in December 2017 to reduce the Revolving Credit Facility to $32.0 million. In December 2017, we also entered into a credit and security agreement that provides for an initial term loan of $40.0 million with an additional tranche of $20.0 million available if specified conditions are met on or prior to December 31, 2018 (the \"Term Loan\" and, together with the Revolving Credit Facility, the \"Credit Facilities\"). In July 2018, we also further amended the credit and security agreements with respect to the Credit Facilities to provide for, among other things, adjustments to the fixed coverage charge ratio.. As of June 30, 2018, we had total consolidated liabilities of approximately $330.1 million; including long-term liability components of the 3.75% Convertible Notes of $69.4 million, and the Revolving Credit Facility of $23.7 million and the Term Loan of $38.0 million. Our existing and future levels of indebtedness could have important consequences to stockholders and note holders and may adversely affect our financial conditions and future financial results by, among other things:. •  affecting our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Convertible Notes and Credit Facilities;. •  requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes;. •  impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and. •  increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general.. The credit and security agreements governing the Credit Facilities also includes certain restrictive covenants that limit, among other things, the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to (i) incur indebtedness, (ii) incur liens on their property, (iii) pay dividends or make other distributions, (iv) sell their assets, (v) make certain loans or investments, (vi) merge or consolidate, (vii) voluntarily repay or prepay certain indebtedness and (viii) enter into transactions with affiliates, in each case subject to certain exceptions. In addition, the such agreements require us to meet certain financial covenants, including a \"Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio\" and minimum consolidated \"Net Revenue,\" both as defined in the applicable credit and security agreement governing the Credit Facilities. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, engage in business activities, including future opportunities that may be in our interest, and plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms governing the Credit Facilities will depend in part on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we may be in default and the maturity of the related debt could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. In addition, because our assets are pledged as a security under the Credit Facilities, if we are not able to cure any default or repay outstanding borrowings,. 28. our assets are subject to the risk of foreclosure by our lenders. From time to time to we may not be in compliance with such covenants or other terms governing the Credit Facilities and we may be required to obtain waivers or amendments to the applicable credit and security agreement from our lenders in order to maintain compliance and there can be no certainty that any such waiver or amendment will be available, or what the cost of such waiver or amendment, if obtained, would be. If we are unable to obtain necessary waivers and the debt under such credit facility is accelerated, we would be required to obtain replacement financing at prevailing market rates. Additionally, a default on indebtedness could result in a default under the terms of the indentures governing our 3.75% Convertible Notes. There is no guarantee that we would be able to satisfy our obligations if any of our indebtedness is accelerated.. Our operating results, including our quarterly orders, revenues and margins fluctuate from quarter to quarter and may be unpredictable, which may result in a decline in our stock price.. We have experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including gross orders, revenues and margins, from period to period. Drivers of orders include the introduction and timing of new product or product enhancement announcements by us and our competitors, the timing of regulatory approvals as well as changes or anticipated changes in third - party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. The availability of economic stimulus packages or other government funding, or reductions thereof, may also affect timing of customer purchases. Our products have a high unit price and require significant capital expenditures by our customers. Accordingly, we experience long sales and implementation cycles, which is of greater concern during a volatile economic environment where we have had customers delay or cancel orders. When orders are placed, installation, delivery or shipping, as applicable, is accomplished and the revenues recognized affect our quarterly results. Further, because of the high unit price of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and the relatively small number of units sold or installed each quarter, each sale or installation of a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System can represent a significant percentage of our net orders, backlog or revenue for a particular quarter and shifts in sales or installation from one quarter to another may have significant effects. For example, multi-system sales involve additional complexities to the transaction and require a longer timeline to finalize the sale, which make it more difficult to predict the quarter in which the sale will occur.. Once orders are received and booked into backlog, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenue (or are cancelled or deemed aged - out and reflected as a reduction in net orders) and the timing of revenue include:. •  economic or political instability in foreign countries;. •  delays in the customer obtaining funding or financing;. •  delays in construction at the customer site and delays in installation;. •  delays in the customer obtaining receipt of local or foreign regulatory approvals such as certificates of need in certain states or Class A user licenses in China;. •  timing of when we are able to recognize revenue associated with sales of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, which varies depending upon the terms of the applicable sales and service contracts; and. •  the proportion of revenue attributable to orders placed by our distributors which may be more difficult to forecast due to factors outside our control.. Our operating results may also be affected by a number of other factors some of which are outside of our control, including:. •  the proportion of revenue attributable to our legacy service plans;. •  timing and level of expenditures associated with new product development activities;. 29. •  regulatory requirements in some states for a certificate of need prior to the installation of a radiation device or foreign regulatory approvals, such as Class A user licenses in China;. •  delays in shipment due, for example, to unanticipated construction delays at customer locations where our products are to be installed, cancellations by customers, natural disasters or labor disturbances;. •  delays in our manufacturing processes or unexpected manufacturing difficulties;. •  the timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product upgrades by us and by our competitors;. •  timing and level of expenditures associated with expansion of sales and marketing activities such as trade shows and our overall operations. •  the timing and level of expenditures associated with our financing activities;. •  the effects of foreign currency adjustments;. •  changes in accounting principles, such as those related to revenue recognition, or in the interpretation or the application thereof; and. •  fluctuations in our gross margins and the factors that contribute to such fluctuations, as described in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. Because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated sales and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Our overall gross margins are impacted by a number of factors described in our risk factor entitled \"Our ability to achieve profitability depends in part on maintaining or increasing our gross margins on product sales and services, which we may not be able to achieve.\" If our financial results fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline.. We report on a quarterly and annual basis our orders and backlog. Unlike revenues, orders and backlog are not defined by U.S. GAAP, and are not within the scope of the audit conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm. Also, for the reasons discussed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. Order cancellation or significant delays in installation date will reduce our backlog and future revenues, and we cannot predict if or when orders will mature into revenues. Particularly high levels of cancellations or age - outs in one or more periods may cause our revenue and gross margins to decline in current or future periods and will make it difficult to compare our operating results from quarter to quarter. We cannot assure you that our backlog will result in revenue on a timely basis or at all, or that any cancelled contracts will be replaced.. Our industry is subject to intense competition and rapid technological change, which may result in products or new tumor treatments that are superior to the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. If we are unable to anticipate or keep pace with changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands, our products may become obsolete or less useful and our operating results will suffer.. The medical device industry in general and the non - invasive cancer treatment field in particular are subject to intense and increasing competition and rapidly evolving technologies. Because our products often have long development and government approval cycles, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands. To compete successfully, we will need to continue to demonstrate the advantages of our products and technologies over well - established alternative procedures, products and technologies, and convince physicians and other healthcare decision makers of the advantages of our products and technologies. Traditional surgery and other forms of minimally invasive procedures, brachytherapy, chemotherapy or other drugs remain alternatives to the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems.. 30. We consider the competition for the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems to be existing radiation therapy systems, primarily using C - arm linacs, which are sold by large, well - capitalized companies with significantly greater market share and resources than we have. Several of these competitors are also able to leverage their fixed sales, service and other costs over multiple products or product lines. In particular, we compete with a number of existing radiation therapy equipment companies, including Varian Medical Systems, Inc., Elekta AB, BrainLAB AG and ViewRay, Inc. Varian has been the leader in the external beam radiation therapy market for many years and has the majority market share for radiation therapy systems worldwide. In general, because of aging demographics and attractive market factors in oncology, we believe that new competitors will enter the radiosurgery and radiation therapy markets in the years ahead. In October 2012, Varian announced a new line of C - arm gantries, called the Edge systems, which Varian claims are specifically designed for radiosurgery to compete with our CyberKnife Systems. In addition, some manufacturers of conventional linac based radiation therapy systems, including Varian and Elekta, have products that can be used in combination with body and/or head frames and image guidance systems to perform both radiosurgical and radiotherapy procedures. In May 2017, Varian launched a new radiation therapy product called Halcyon which they have positioned against our TomoTherapy product line.. Furthermore, many government, academic and business entities are investing substantial resources in research and development of cancer treatments, including surgical approaches, radiation treatment, MRI - guided radiotherapy systems, proton therapy systems, drug treatment, gene therapy (which is the treatment of disease by replacing, manipulating, or supplementing nonfunctional genes), and other approaches. Successful developments that result in new approaches for the treatment of cancer could reduce the attractiveness of our products or render them obsolete.. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to establish and maintain a competitive position in current and future technologies. Rapid technological development may render the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and their technologies obsolete. Many of our competitors have or may have greater corporate, financial, operational, sales and marketing resources, and more experience and resources in research and development than we have. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our products or that would render our technologies and products obsolete or less useful. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. In addition, some of our competitors may compete by changing their pricing model or by lowering the price of their products. If we are unable to maintain or increase our selling prices, our revenue and gross margins may suffer. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with our technologies.. International sales of our products account for a significant portion of our revenue, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations.. Our international sales, as a percentage of total revenue, have increased over the last five fiscal years. The percentage of our revenue derived from sales outside of the Americas region was 64% in 2018, 60% in both 2016 and 2017. To accommodate our international sales, we have invested significant financial and management resources to develop an international infrastructure that will meet the needs of our customers. We anticipate that a significant portion of our revenue will continue to be derived from sales of our products in foreign markets and that the percentage of our overall revenue that is derived from these markets may continue to increase. This revenue and related operations will therefore continue to be subject to the risks associated with international operations, including:. •  economic or political instability in foreign countries, including the market volatility resulting from the initiation by the United Kingdom (the \"UK\") to exit the European Union (the \"EU\"), or Brexit;. •  import delays;. •  changes in foreign regulatory laws governing, among other matters, the clearance, approval and sales of medical devices;. •  the potential failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements to sell and market our products;. 31. •  longer payment cycles associated with many customers outside the United States;. •  adequate coverage and reimbursement for the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy treatment procedures outside the United States;. •  failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property;. •  protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors;. •  changes in U.S. trade and economic sanctions policies and the possibility that foreign countries may impose additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade;. •  U.S. relations with the governments of the foreign countries in which we operate;. •  the inability to obtain required export or import licenses or approvals;. •  risks relating to foreign currency, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates possibly causing fewer sales due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar; and. •  contractual provisions governed by foreign laws and various trade restrictions, including U.S. prohibitions and restrictions on exports of certain products and technologies to certain nations.. Our inability to overcome these obstacles could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Even if we are successful in managing these obstacles, our partners internationally are subject to these same risks and may not be able to manage these obstacles effectively.. In addition, future imposition of, or significant increases in, the level of customs duties, export quotas, regulatory restrictions or trade restrictions could materially harm our business.. Enhanced international tariffs, including potential tariffs imposed by the United States and China that affect our products or components within our products, other trade barriers or a global trade war could increase our costs and materially and adversely affect our business operations and financial condition.. Our global business could be negatively affected by trade barriers and other governmental protectionist measures, any of which can be imposed suddenly and unpredictably. There is currently significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and various other countries, most significantly China, with respect to trade policies, treaties, government regulations and tariffs.. Since the beginning of 2018, there has been increasing public threats and, in some cases, legislative or executive action, from United States and foreign leaders regarding instituting tariffs against foreign imports of certain materials. On July 6, 2018, the federal government imposed 25% tariffs on a variety of imports from China. The federal government has also further proposed two additional lists of products from China on which to impose additional 25% tariffs. These tariffs affect certain components, including the linear accelerator for our TomoTherapy Systems, which we manufacture in China and import into the United States, as well as other components that we import into the United States from our suppliers. China has responded to the new and proposed United States tariffs by announcing plans to impose tariffs ranging from 5% to 25% on a wide range of products in retaliation, which would impact our products. If the proposed new tariff lists remains unaltered and these additional tariffs are placed on certain of our components or products, or any related counter-measures are taken by China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. The imposition of tariffs could also increase our costs and require us to raise prices on our products, which may negatively impact the demand for our products in the affected market. If we are not successful in offsetting the impact of any such tariffs, our revenue, gross margins, and operating results may be adversely affected.. 32. These tariffs have been recently announced and are subject to a number of uncertainties as they are implemented, including future adjustments and changes. The ultimate reaction of other countries and the impact of these tariffs or other actions on the United States, China, the global economy and our business, financial condition and results of operations, cannot be predicted at this time, nor can we predict the impact of any other developments with respect to global trade. Further, the imposition of additional tariffs by the United States could result in the adoption of additional tariffs by China and other countries, as well as further retaliatory actions by any affected country. Any resulting trade war could negatively impact the global market for medical devices, including radiation therapy devices, and could have a significant adverse effect on our business. These developments may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and they may significantly reduce global trade and, in particular, trade between China and the United States. Any of these factors could depress economic activity, restrict our access to customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face risks related to the current global economic environment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by, among other things, delaying or preventing our customers from obtaining financing to purchase the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and implement the required facilities.. Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. A general economic slowdown and the volatility in current economic conditions could adversely affect our business including our ability to raise financing. Concerns over the slow economic recovery, the level of U.S. national debt, currency fluctuations and volatility, the rate of growth of Japan, China, and other Asian economies, unemployment, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. housing market, inflation levels, negative interest rates, energy costs and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets.. Further, the U.S. federal government has called for, or enacted, substantial changes to healthcare, trade, fiscal, and tax policies, which may include changes to existing trade agreements and may have a significant impact on our operations. For example, the current administration has initiated the imposition of tariffs on certain foreign products, including from China, that have resulted in and may result in future retaliatory tariffs on U.S. goods and products. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that these changes could have on our business. If economic conditions worsen or new legislation is passed related to the healthcare system, trade, fiscal or tax policies, customer demand may not materialize to levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, uncertain credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit could impact consumer and customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors, including financial institutions. If the current situation continues to deteriorate or does not improve, our business could be negatively affected, including by reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow - down in the general economy, supplier or customer disruptions and/or temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day - to - day transactions through our financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. For example, in the United States, some of our customers have been delayed in obtaining, or have not been able to obtain, necessary financing for their purchases of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems. In addition, some of our customers have been delayed in obtaining, or have not been able to obtain, necessary financing for the construction or renovation of facilities to house CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, the cost of which can be substantial. These delays have in some instances led to our customers postponing the shipment and installation of previously ordered systems or cancelling their system orders, and may cause other customers to postpone their system installation or to cancel their agreements with us. An increase in delays and order cancellations of this nature would adversely affect our product sales, backlog and revenues, and therefore harm our business and results of operations. In addition, the recent approval by voters in the U.K. of a referendum to leave the EU has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets. The U.K.'s proposed exit from the EU, if implemented, will take some period of time to complete and could result in regulatory changes that impact our business. We will review the impact of any resulting changes to EU or U.K. law that could affect our operations, such as labor policies, financial planning, product manufacturing, and product distribution.. 33. If we encounter manufacturing problems, or if our manufacturing facilities do not continue to meet federal, state or foreign manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, which would result in delays and lost revenue.. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are complex and require the integration of a number of components from several sources of supply. We must manufacture and assemble these complex systems in commercial quantities in compliance with regulatory requirements and at an acceptable cost. Our linear accelerator components are extremely complex devices and require significant expertise to manufacture, and we may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, including problems with quality control and assurance, component supply shortages, increased costs, shortages of qualified personnel, the long lead time required to develop additional radiation - shielded facilities for purposes of testing our products and/or difficulties associated with compliance with local, state, federal and foreign regulatory requirements. If our manufacturing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which in turn may have a negative effect on our financial results and overall business. Conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may adversely affect our financial results.. Our manufacturing processes and the manufacturing processes of our third - party suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's QSR for any products imported into, or sold within, the United States. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production process and controls, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. Furthermore, we are required to verify that our suppliers maintain facilities, procedures and operations that comply with our quality requirements. We are also subject to state licensing and other requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices, and we are required to comply with ISO, quality system standards in order to produce products for sale in Europe and Canada, as well as various other foreign laws and regulations. Because our manufacturing processes include the production of diagnostic and therapeutic X - ray equipment and laser equipment, we are subject to the electronic product radiation control provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which requires that we file reports with the FDA, applicable states and our customers regarding the distribution, manufacturing and installation of these types of equipment. The FDA enforces the QSR and the electronic product radiation control provisions through periodic inspections, some of which may be unannounced. We have been, and anticipate in the future being subject to such inspections. FDA inspections usually occur every two to three years. During such inspections, the FDA may issue Inspectional Observations on Form FDA 483, listing instances where the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and procedures, or warning letters.. If a manufacturer does not adequately address the observations, the FDA may take enforcement action against the manufacturer, including the imposition of fines, restriction of the ability to export product, total shutdown of production facilities and criminal prosecution. If we or a third - party supplier receive a Form FDA 483 with material or major observations that are not promptly corrected, fail to pass a QSR inspection, or fail to comply with these, ISO and other applicable regulatory requirements, our operations could be disrupted and our ability to generate sales could be delayed. Our failure to take prompt and satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse inspection or our failure to comply with applicable standards could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, which would cause our sales and business to suffer. In addition, because some foreign regulatory approvals are based on approvals or clearances from the FDA, any failure to comply with FDA requirements may also disrupt our sales of products in other countries. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other governmental authorities would agree with our interpretation of applicable regulatory requirements or that we or our third - party suppliers have in all instances fully complied with all applicable requirements. If any of these events occur, our reputation could be harmed, we could lose customers and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we cannot achieve the required level and quality of production, we may need to outsource production or rely on licensing and other arrangements with third parties who possess sufficient manufacturing facilities and capabilities in compliance with regulatory requirements. Even if we could outsource needed production or enter into licensing or other third - party arrangements, this could reduce our gross margin and expose us to the risks inherent in relying on others. We also cannot assure you that our suppliers will deliver an adequate supply of required components on a timely basis or that they will adequately comply with the QSR. Failure to obtain these components on a timely basis would disrupt our manufacturing processes and increase our costs, which would harm our operating results.. 34. If we are unable to develop new products or enhance existing products to meet our customers' needs and compete favorably in the market, we may be unable to attract or retain customers.. Our success depends on the successful development, regulatory clearance or approval, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems, and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing products that will meet our customers' needs provide novel, features and compete favorably in the market. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, which are currently our principal products, are technologically complex and must keep pace with, among other things, the products of our competitors and new technologies. We are making significant investments in long - term growth initiatives. Such initiatives require significant capital commitments, involvement of senior management and other investments on our part, which we may be unable to recover. Our timeline for the development of new products or enhancements may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. Commercialization of new products may prove challenging, and we may be required to invest more time and money than expected to successfully introduce them. Once introduced, new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete. Compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact the successful implementation of new products or enhancements. Our inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for or supply competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales.. Our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products, treatment systems and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, will be affected by our ability to:. •  properly identify and address customer needs;. •  prove feasibility of new products in a timely manner;. •  educate physicians about the use of new products and procedures;. •  comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes timely and efficiently;. •  manage the timing and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances;. •  accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase - in of new products and phase - out of old products;. •  price new products competitively;. •  manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products;. •  meet our product development plan and launch timelines;. •  improve manufacturing yields of components; and. •  manage customer demands for retrofits of both old and new products.. Even if customers accept new products or product enhancements, the revenues from these products may not be sufficient to offset the significant costs associated with making them available to customers.. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval or clearance for, manufacture or introduce new products, treatment systems or enhancements, the roll - out of which involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including QSR. Failure to obtain regulatory approval or clearance for our products or to complete these processes in a timely and efficient manner could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract and retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders, causing our backlog, revenues and operating results to suffer.. 35. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business may be significantly harmed.. In order to implement our business strategy, we expect continued growth in our infrastructure requirements, particularly as we expand into new and growing markets as well as expand our manufacturing capacities and sales and marketing capabilities. To manage our growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our management, operational and financial systems, hire and train additional qualified personnel, scale - up our manufacturing capacity and expand our marketing and distribution capabilities. Our manufacturing, assembly and installation process is complex and occurs over many months, and we must effectively scale this entire process to satisfy customer expectations and changes in demand. Further, to accommodate our growth and compete effectively, we will be required to improve our information systems. We cannot be certain that our personnel, systems, procedures and internal controls will be adequate to support our future operations and any expansion of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit significant additional financial, operational and management resources. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our business will suffer.. We could become subject to product liability claims, product recalls, other field actions and warranty claims that could be expensive, divert management's attention and harm our business.. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical device products. We may be held liable if a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System causes injury or death or is found otherwise unsuitable during usage. Our products incorporate sophisticated components and computer software. Complex software can contain errors, particularly when first introduced. In addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after installation. Because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical and therapeutic procedures involving delivery of radiation to the body, defects, even if small, could result in a number of complications, some of which could be serious and could harm or kill patients. Any alleged weaknesses in physician training and services associated with our products may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes and product liability lawsuits. It is also possible that defects in the design, manufacture or labeling of our products might necessitate a product recall or other field corrective action, which may result in warranty claims beyond our expectations and may harm our reputation and create adverse publicity. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs that may not be covered by insurance and be time-consuming to defend. We may also be subject to claims for personal injury, property damage or economic loss related to, or resulting from, any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products, or any professional services rendered in conjunction with our products. Adverse publicity related to any product liability actions may cause patients to be less receptive to radiation therapy generally or our products specifically and could also result in additional regulation that could adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. If sales of our products increase or we suffer future product liability claims, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or with adequate amounts of coverage. A product liability claim, any product recalls or other field actions or excessive warranty claims, whether arising from defects in design or manufacture or labeling, could negatively affect our sales or require a change in the design, manufacturing process or the indications for which the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems may be used, any of which could harm our reputation and business and result in a decline in revenue.. In addition, if a product we designed or manufactured is defective, whether because of design or manufacturing, or labeling defects, improper use of the product or other reasons, we may be required to notify regulatory authorities and/or to recall the product, possibly at our expense. We have voluntarily initiated recalls and product corrections in the past, including two recalls for the CyberKnife System in fiscal year 2017 and one recall for the TomoTherapy System in fiscal year 2018. The two recalls related to the CyberKnife System were initiated in calendar year 2016 have been closed with FDA. One additional recall related to the CyberKnife System was initiated in fiscal year 2016 continued into fiscal 2017 and was closed in October 2016. The recall related to the TomoTherapy System was initiated in calendar year 2017 and remains open with the FDA. While no serious adverse health consequences have been reported in connection with these recalls and the costs associated with each such recall were not material, we cannot ensure that the FDA will not require that we take additional actions to address problems that resulted in previous recalls or that similar or more significant product recalls will not occur in the future. A required notification of a correction or removal to a regulatory authority or recall could result in an investigation by regulatory authorities of our products, which could in turn result in required recalls, restrictions on the sale of the products or other civil or. 36. criminal penalties. The adverse publicity resulting from any of these actions could cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. These investigations, corrections or recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity, patient injury or termination of customer contracts, could result in incurring substantial costs, losing revenues and damaging our reputation, each of which would harm our business.. Our reliance on single - source suppliers for critical components of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely and cost effective manner.. We currently depend on single - source suppliers for some of the critical components necessary for the assembly of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, including, with respect to the CyberKnife System, the robot, couch and, magnetron and, with respect to the TomoTherapy Systems, the ring gantry, couch, the solid state modulator and the magnetron. If any single - source supplier was to cease delivering components to us or fail to provide the components to our specifications and on a timely basis, we might be required to find alternative sources for these components. The disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our results of operations. In some cases, alternative suppliers may be located in the same geographic area as existing suppliers, and are thus subject to the same economic, political, and geographic factors that may affect existing suppliers to meet our demand. We may have difficulty or be unable to find alternative sources for these components. As a result, we may be unable to meet the demand for the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, which could harm our ability to generate revenue and damage our reputation. Even if we do find alternate suppliers, we will be required to qualify any such alternate suppliers and we would likely experience a lengthy delay in our manufacturing processes or a cessation in production, which would result in delays of shipment to end users. We cannot assure you that our single - source suppliers will be able or willing to meet our future demands.. We generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory, which makes us even more susceptible to harm if a single - source supplier fails to deliver components on a timely basis. Furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a critical component of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities, procedures and operations that comply with our quality and applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines, which could further impede our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner. If the change in manufacturer results in a significant change to the product, a new 510(k) clearance would be necessary, which would likely cause substantial delays. The disruption or termination of the supply of key components for the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems could harm our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget, harm our ability to generate revenue, lead to customer dissatisfaction and adversely affect our reputation and results of operations.. We depend on key employees, the loss of whom would adversely affect our business. If we fail to attract and retain employees with the expertise required for our business, we may be unable to continue to grow our business.. We are highly dependent on the members of our senior management, sales, marketing, operations and research and development staff. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to retain our key employees and to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the medical device industry is intense and finding and retaining qualified personnel with experience in our industry is very difficult. We believe there are only a limited number of individuals with the requisite skills to serve in many of our key positions and we face significant competition for key personnel and other employees, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area where our headquarters is located, from other medical equipment and software manufacturers, technology companies, universities, and research institutions. As a result, we may not be able to retain our existing employees or hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. At the same time, we may face high turnover, requiring us to expend time and resources to source, train and integrate new employees. The challenging markets in which we compete for talent may also require us to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain employees. In addition, a significant portion of our compensation to our key employees is in the form of stock related grants. A prolonged depression in our stock price could make it difficult for us to retain our key and other employees and recruit additional qualified personnel and we may have to pay additional compensation to employees to incentivize them to join or stay with the Company. We do not maintain, and do not currently intend to obtain, key employee life insurance on any of our personnel. If we fail to hire and retain key personnel and other employees, we may be unable to continue to grow our business successfully.. 37. Disruption of critical information technology systems, infrastructure, and data could harm our business and financial condition.. Information technology helps us operate more efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain and secure the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. In addition, we have moved some of our data and information to a cloud computing system, where applications and data are hosted, accessed and processed through a third - party provider over a broadband Internet connection. In a cloud computing environment, we could be subject to outages and security breaches by the third - party service provider. If our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we internally and externally report our operating results.. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services. There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, continuing to build security into the design of our products, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future.. If we are unable to maintain reliable information technology systems and prevent data breaches, we may suffer regulatory consequences in addition to business consequences. Our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to data protection and cyber security laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, and that some of the data we process, store and transmit may be transmitted across countries. In the U.S., HIPAA privacy and security rules require us as a business associate to protect the confidentiality of patient health information, and the Federal Trade Commission has begun to assert authority over protection of privacy and the use of cyber security in information systems. In Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation requires us to manage individually identifiable information in the E.U. and, in the event of violations, may impose significant fines of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide annual revenue or \20020 million. In the United Kingdom, a Data Protection Bill that substantially implements the GDPR became law in May 2018. In June 2018, California passed the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA), which will become effective on January 1, 2020. CCPA imposes stringent data privacy and data protection requirements for the data of California residents, and provides for penalties for noncompliance of up to $7,500 per violation. China and Russia have also passed laws that require individually identifiable data on their citizens to be maintained on local servers and that may restrict transfer or processing of that data. In addition, U.S. and international laws that have been applied to protect user privacy (including laws regarding unfair and deceptive practices in the U.S. and GDPR in the EU) may be subject to evolving interpretations or applications in light of privacy developments. With increasing enforcement of privacy, data protection and cyber security laws and regulations in these jurisdictions and others, there is no guarantee that we will avoid enforcement actions by governmental bodies or that our costs of compliance will not increase significantly. Enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt regular operations of our business. In addition, there has been a developing trend of civil lawsuits and class actions relating to breaches of consumer data held by large companies. While we have not been named in any such suits, if a substantial breach or loss of data from our records were to occur, we could become a target of such litigation.. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized person or to the public. There can be no assurance that any efforts we make to prevent against such privacy breaches will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. For example, our employees have received \"phishing\" e-mails attempting to induce them to divulge sensitive. 38. information. In addition, unauthorized persons may attempt to hack into our products or systems to obtain personal data relating to patients or employees, our confidential or proprietary information or confidential information we hold on behalf of third parties, which, if successful, could pose a risk of loss of data, risk to patient safety and risk of product recall. As the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to our systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect, we may not be able to anticipate and prevent these intrusions or mitigate them when they occur. Moreover, we manufacture and sell products that allow our customers to store confidential information about their patients. We do not have measures to secure our customers' equipment or any information stored in our customers' systems or at their locations, which is the responsibility of our customers. A breach of network security and systems or other events that cause the loss or public disclosure of, or access by third parties to, sensitive information stored by us or our customers could have serious negative consequences for our business, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, and time - consuming and expensive litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to protect from fraudulent, illegal or unauthorized transactions. If we cannot maintain effective controls and provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed.. A failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results and our stock price, and we could be subject to stockholder litigation.. We may have difficulties in determining the effectiveness of our internal controls due to our complex financial model.. The complexity of our financial model contributes to the difficulties in determining the effectiveness of our financial reporting systems and internal controls. We recognize revenue from a range of transactions including CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems sales and services. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are complex products that contain both hardware and software elements. The complexity of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and of our financial model pertaining to revenue recognition requires us to process a broader range of financial transactions than would be required by a company with a less complex financial model. Accordingly, deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls would likely impact us more significantly than they would impact a company with a less complex financial model. If we were to find that our internal controls were deficient, and/or we would be required to amend or restate historical financial statements, this would likely have a negative impact on our stock price.. If third - party payors do not provide sufficient coverage and reimbursement to healthcare providers for use of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, demand for our products and our revenue could be adversely affected.. Our customers rely significantly on reimbursement from public and private third - party payors for CyberKnife and TomoTherapy systems procedures. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully and increase market acceptance of our products will depend in significant part on the extent to which public and private third - party payors provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for procedures that are performed with our products. Third - party payors may establish or change the reimbursement for medical products and services that could significantly influence the purchase of medical products and services. If reimbursement policies or other cost containment measures are instituted in a manner that significantly reduces the coverage or payment for the procedures that are performed with our products, our revenue may decline, our existing customers may not continue using our products or may decrease their use of our products, and we may have difficulty obtaining new customers. Such actions would likely have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. 39. CMS reviews reimbursement rates annually and may implement significant changes in future years, which could discourage existing and potential customers from purchasing or using our products. Further, outside of the United States, reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. Market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement in any country within a particular time.. The safety and efficacy of our products for certain uses is not yet supported by long - term clinical data, and our products may therefore prove to be less safe and effective than initially thought.. Although we believe that the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems have advantages over competing products and technologies, we do not have sufficient clinical data demonstrating these advantages for all tumor indications. In addition, we have only limited five - year patient survival rate data, which is a common long - term measure of clinical effectiveness in cancer treatment. We also have limited clinical data directly comparing the effectiveness of the CyberKnife Systems to other competing systems. Future patient studies or clinical experience may indicate that treatment with the CyberKnife System does not improve patient survival or outcomes.. Likewise, because the TomoTherapy Systems have only been on the market since 2003, we have limited complication or patient survival rate data with respect to treatment using the system. In addition, while the effectiveness of radiation therapy is well understood, there is a growing but still limited number of peer - reviewed medical journal publications regarding the efficacy of highly conformal treatment such as that delivered by the TomoTherapy System. If future patient studies or clinical experience do not support our beliefs that the TomoTherapy System offers a more advantageous treatment for a wide variety of cancer types, use of the system could fail to increase or could decrease, and our business would therefore be adversely affected.. Such results could reduce the rate of reimbursement by both public and private third - party payors for procedures that are performed with our products, slow the adoption of our products by physicians, significantly reduce our ability to achieve expected revenues and could prevent us from becoming profitable. In addition, if future results and experience indicate that our products cause unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects, the FDA could rescind our clearances, our reputation with physicians, patients and others may suffer and we could be subject to significant legal liability.. We rely on third parties to perform spare parts shipping and other logistics functions on our behalf. A failure or disruption at our logistics providers would adversely impact our business.. Customer service is a critical element of our sales strategy. Third - party logistics providers store most of our spare parts inventory in depots around the world and perform a significant portion of our spare parts logistics and shipping activities. If any of our logistics providers terminates its relationship with us, suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its operations, or we have to change and qualify alternative logistics providers for our spare parts, shipments of spare parts to our customers may be delayed and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our product.. The medical device industry is characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, the field of radiation treatment of cancer is well established and crowded with the intellectual property of competitors and others. We also expect that other participants will enter the field. A number of companies in our market, as well as universities and research institutions, have issued patents and have filed patent applications which relate to the use of radiation therapy and stereotactic radiosurgery to treat cancerous and benign tumors.. Determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of patent litigation actions is often uncertain. We have not conducted an extensive search of patents issued to third parties, and no assurance can be given that third - party patents containing claims covering our products, parts of our products, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas or fields, our competitors or other third parties may assert that our products and the methods we employ in the use of our products are covered by United States or foreign patents held by them.. 40. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue and because publication schedules for pending applications vary by jurisdiction, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, and which may result in issued patents which our current or future products infringe. Also, because the claims of published patent applications can change between publication and patent grant, there may be published patent applications that may ultimately issue with claims that we infringe. There could also be existing patents that one or more of our products or parts may infringe and of which we are unaware. As the number of competitors in the market for less invasive cancer treatment alternatives grows, and as the number of patents issued in this area grows, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us increases. Regardless of the merit of infringement claims, they can be time - consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise funds, if necessary, to continue our operations.. In the event that we become subject to a patent infringement or other intellectual property lawsuit and if the relevant patents or other intellectual property were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe or violate the terms of a license to which we are a party, we could be prevented from selling our products unless we could obtain a license or are able to redesign the product to avoid infringement. Required licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain a license or successfully redesign our system, we might be prevented from selling our system. If there is an allegation or determination that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of a competitor or other person, we may be required to pay damages, pay ongoing royalties or otherwise settle such matter upon terms that are unfavorable to us. In these circumstances, we may be unable to sell our products at competitive prices or at all, and our business and operating results could be harmed.. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. As is common in the medical device industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other medical equipment or biotechnology companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that we or those employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against claims of this nature, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. It is difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technologies, and we may not be able to ensure their protection.. Our success depends significantly on our ability to obtain, maintain and protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. Patents and other proprietary rights provide uncertain protections, and we may be unable to protect our intellectual property. For example, we may be unsuccessful in defending our patents and other proprietary rights against third - party challenges. As key patents expire, our ability to prevent competitors from copying our technology may be limited. In addition, patent reform legislation or precedent could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents.. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. These measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. If these measures do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. Although we have attempted to obtain patent coverage for our technology where available and appropriate, there are aspects of the technology for which patent coverage was never sought or never received. There are also countries in which we sell or intend to sell the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems but have no patents or pending patent applications. Our ability to prevent others from making or selling duplicate or similar technologies will be impaired in those countries in which we have no patent protection. Although we have several issued patents in the United States and in foreign countries protecting aspects of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, our pending United States and foreign patent applications may not issue, may issue only with limited coverage or may issue and be. 41. subsequently successfully challenged by others and held invalid or unenforceable. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against certain third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, patents may provide limited or no benefit. Patent protection must ultimately be sought on a country-by-country basis, which is an expensive and time consuming process with uncertain outcomes. Accordingly, we may choose not to seek patent protection in certain countries, and we will not have the benefit of patent protection in such countries.. Similarly, our issued patents and those of our licensors may not provide us with any competitive advantages. Competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products which provide outcomes comparable or superior to ours. Our patents may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties, and others may challenge the inventorship or ownership of our patents and pending patent applications. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be difficult and time consuming. Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be expensive and time consuming and could divert our management's attention from our core business. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against a challenge. In addition, we may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us.. We also license patent and other proprietary rights to aspects of our technology to third parties in fields where we currently do not operate as well as in fields where we currently do operate. Disputes with our licensees may arise regarding the scope and content of these licenses. Further, our ability to expand into additional fields with our technologies may be restricted by our existing licenses or licenses we may grant to third parties in the future.. Additionally, we have written agreements with collaborators regarding the ownership of intellectual property arising from our collaborations. These agreements generally provide that we must negotiate certain commercial rights with collaborators with respect to joint inventions or inventions made by our collaborators that arise from the results of the collaboration. In some instances, there may not be adequate written provisions to address clearly the resolution of intellectual property rights that may arise from a collaboration. If we cannot successfully negotiate sufficient ownership and commercial rights to the inventions that result from our use of a third-party collaborator's materials where required, or if disputes otherwise arise with respect to the intellectual property developed with the use of a collaborator's technology, we may be limited in our ability to utilize these intellectual property rights. In addition, we may face claims by third parties that our agreements with employees, contractors or consultants obligating them to assign intellectual property to us are ineffective or in conflict with prior or competing contractual obligations of assignment, which could result in ownership disputes regarding intellectual property we have developed or will develop and interfere with our ability to capture the commercial value of such intellectual property. Litigation may be necessary to resolve an ownership dispute, and if we are not successful, we may be precluded from using certain intellectual property or may lose our exclusive rights in that intellectual property. Either outcome could harm our business.. The policies we have in place to protect our trade secrets may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our trade secrets by others. In addition, confidentiality agreements executed by our employees, consultants and advisors may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Litigating a trade secret claim is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge methods and know - how. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to prevent competitors from using our own inventions and intellectual property to compete against us and our business may be harmed.. 42. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially and adversely affect our financial condition.. We are and may become a party to legal proceedings, claims and other legal matters in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. These legal proceedings, claims and other legal matters, regardless of merit, may be costly, time - consuming and require the attention of key management and other personnel. The outcomes of such matters are uncertain and difficult to predict. If any such matters are adjudicated against us, in whole or in part, we may be subject to substantial monetary damages, disgorgement of profits, and injunctions that prevent us from operating our business, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We cannot guarantee that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover any damages awarded against us. Further, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business.. Because the majority of our product revenue is derived from sales of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, which have a long and variable sales and installation cycle, our revenues and cash flows may be volatile and difficult to predict.. Our primary products are the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. We expect to generate substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future from sales of and service contracts for the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems have lengthy sales and purchase order cycles because they are major capital equipment items and require the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. In addition, sales to some of our customers are subject to competitive bidding or public tender processes. These approval and bidding processes can be lengthy. Selling our systems, from first contact with a potential customer to a complete order, generally spans six months to two years and involves personnel with multiple skills. The sales process in the United States typically begins with pre - selling activity followed by sales presentations and other sales related activities. After the customer has expressed an intention to purchase a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System, we negotiate and enter into a definitive purchase contract with the customer. The negotiation of terms that are not standard for Accuray may require additional time and approvals. Typically, following the execution of the contract, the customer begins the building or renovation of a radiation - shielded facility to house the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System, which together with the subsequent installation of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System, can take up to 24 months to complete. In order to construct this facility, the customer must typically obtain radiation device installation permits, which are granted by state and local government bodies, each of which may have different criteria for permit issuance. If a permit was denied for installation at a specific hospital or treatment center, our CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System could not be installed at that location. In addition, some of our customers are cancer centers or facilities that are new, and in these cases it may be necessary for the entire facility to be completed before the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System can be installed, which can result in additional construction and installation delays. Our sales and installations of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems tend to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter.. Under our revenue recognition policy, we generally do not recognize revenue attributable to a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System purchase until after installation has occurred, if we are responsible for providing installation. For international sales through distributors, we typically recognize revenue when the system is shipped and we have evidence of a purchase commitment from the end user. Under our current forms of purchase and service contracts, we record a majority of the purchase price as revenue for a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System upon installation or delivery of the system. Events beyond our control may delay installation and the satisfaction of contingencies required to receive cash inflows and recognize revenue, including delays in the customer obtaining funding or financing, delays in construction at the customer site or delays in the customer obtaining receipt of regulatory approvals such as certificates of need.. The long sales cycle, together with delays in the shipment and installation of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems or customer cancellations that could affect our ability to recognize revenue, could adversely affect our cash flows and revenue, which would harm our results of operations and may result in significant fluctuations in our reporting of quarterly revenues. Because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. These fluctuations also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance.. 43. We depend on third - party distributors to market and distribute our products in international markets. If our distributors fail to successfully market and distribute our products, our business will be materially harmed.. We depend on a number of distributors in our international markets. We cannot control the efforts and resources our third - party distributors will devote to marketing the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems. Our distributors may not be able to successfully market and sell the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, may not devote sufficient time and resources to support the marketing and selling efforts and may not market the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems at prices that will permit the product to develop, achieve or sustain market acceptance. In some jurisdictions, we rely on our distributors to manage the regulatory process, and we are dependent on their ability to do so effectively. In addition, if a distributor is terminated by us or goes out of business, it may take us a period of time to locate an alternative distributor, to seek appropriate regulatory approvals and to train its personnel to market the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, and our ability to sell and service the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems in the region formerly serviced by such terminated distributor could be materially and adversely affected. Any of our distributors could become insolvent or otherwise become unable to pay amounts owed to us when due. If any of these distributor relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales or the ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our revenue from international markets, increase our costs in those markets or damage our reputation. If we are unable to attract additional international distributors, our international revenue may not grow. If our distributors experience difficulties, do not actively market the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems or do not otherwise perform under our distribution agreements, our potential for revenue and gross margins from international markets may be dramatically reduced, and our business could be harmed.. The high unit price of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, as well as other factors, may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our operating results, which could adversely affect our stock price.. Because of the high unit price of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and the relatively small number of units installed each quarter, each installation of a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System can represent a significant percentage of our revenue for a particular quarter. Therefore, if we do not install a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System when anticipated, our operating results will vary significantly from our expectations. This is of particular concern in the current volatile economic environment, where we have had experiences with customers cancelling or postponing orders for our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems and delaying any required build - outs. These fluctuations and other potential fluctuations mean that you should not rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance.. As a strategy to assist our sales efforts, we may offer extended payment terms, which may potentially result in higher days sales outstanding, reduced cash flows in a particular period and greater payment defaults.. We offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in some circumstances. As of June 30, 2018, customer contracts with extended payment terms of more than one year amounted to approximately 9% of our total accounts receivable balance. While we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. This may result in an increase in payment defaults, which would affect our revenue, as we recognize revenue on such transactions on a cash basis. Any increase in days sales outstanding could also negatively affect our cash flow.. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss because of natural disasters, epidemics, terrorist acts and other events beyond our control, which would adversely affect our business.. We have facilities in countries around the world, including three manufacturing facilities, each of which is equipped to manufacture unique components of our products. The manufacturing facilities are located in Sunnyvale, California, Madison, Wisconsin and Chengdu, China. We do not maintain backup manufacturing facilities for all of our manufacturing facilities or for our IT facilities, so we depend on each of our current facilities for the continued operation of our business. In addition, we conduct a significant portion of other activities, including administration and data processing, at facilities located in the State of California which has experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other natural disasters. Chengdu, China, where one of our manufacturing facilities is located, has also experienced major earthquakes in the past. We do not carry earthquake insurance. Unexpected events at any of our facilities, including fires or explosions; natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, tornados and earthquakes; war or. 44. terrorist activities; unplanned outages; supply disruptions; and failures of equipment or systems, or the failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, could significantly disrupt our operations, delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment for the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our manufacturing facilities, which could be lengthy, result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities, and adversely affect our results of operation. In addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or an epidemic outbreak could have a negative effect on our operations, those of our suppliers and customers and the ability to travel, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may attempt to acquire new businesses, products or technologies, or enter into strategic collaborations or alliances, including forming joint ventures, and if we are unable to successfully complete these acquisitions or to integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies or employees, we may fail to realize expected benefits or harm our existing business.. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies, or through collaborating with complementary businesses, including forming joint ventures, rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition or alliance candidates can be difficult, time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions or alliances. Other companies may compete with us for these strategic opportunities. In addition, even if we successfully complete an acquisition or alliance, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies into our operations, and the process of integration could be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources, and we may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, collaboration, joint venture or strategic alliance. Furthermore, the products and technologies that we acquire or with respect to which we collaborate may not be successful, or may require significantly greater resources and investments than we originally anticipated. In addition, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision making authority regarding any strategic collaboration, alliance or joint venture, which could result in impasses on decisions or decisions made by our partners, and our partners in such collaborations, alliances or joint ventures may have economic or business interests that are, or may become, inconsistent with our interests. Collaborations, alliances and joint ventures can be difficult to manage and may involve significant expense and divert the focus or attention of our management and other key personnel. With respect to any acquisition, we may be unable to retain employees of acquired companies, or retain the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners who are our competitors or who have close relationships with our competitors. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions or alliances which could harm our existing business. In addition, future acquisitions or alliances could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such as in - process research and development, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results or cause a reduction in the price of our common stock.. Multiple factors may adversely affect our ability to fully utilize certain tax loss carryforwards.. As of June 30, 2018, we had approximately $329.7 million and $146.8 million in federal and state net operating loss carry forwards, respectively. The federal and state carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2019 for both federal and state purposes. In addition, as of June 30, 2018, we had federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $18.9 million and $19.2 million, respectively. The federal research credits will begin to expire in 2019, the California research credits have no expiration date, and the other state research credits began to expire in 2014. Utilization of our net operating loss and credit carry forwards is subject to annual limitation due to the application of the ownership change limitations provided by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions to us. Future changes in our stock ownership, including future offerings, as well as changes that may be outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. However, none of the federal and state net operating loss carryforwards are expected to expire as a result of the ownership change limitation.. 45. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. In December 2017, the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted into law, which significantly amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The Tax Act, among other things, reduces the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limits the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings, eliminates net operating loss carrybacks, imposes a one-time tax on offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, allows immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits. We continue to examine the impact these changes may have on our business. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our results may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.. Currently, the majority of our international sales are denominated in U.S. Dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies could require us to reduce our sales price or make our products less competitive in international markets. For example, the announcement of Brexit caused severe volatility in global currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. We believe the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar has caused a potential delay in orders and we may continue to see our sales decline due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar. Also, if our international sales increase, we may enter into a greater number of transactions denominated in non - U.S. Dollars, which would expose us to foreign currency risks, including changes in currency exchange rates. If we are unable to address these risks and challenges effectively, our international operations may not be successful and our business would be materially harmed.. Changes in interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results.. We prepare our financial statements to conform to United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. A change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Additionally, as we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. For example, due to the significance of the software component in certain of our products, we are currently bound by the software revenue recognition rules for a portion of our business.. Our liquidity could be adversely impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets.. At June 30, 2018, we had $83.1 million in cash and cash equivalents. The available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third - party financial institutions and consist of cash in our operating accounts and cash invested in money market funds. The investments are managed by third - party financial institutions and primarily consist of U.S. agency and corporate debt securities. To date, we have experienced no material realized losses on or lack of access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or investments; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets.. At any point in time, we also have funds in our operating accounts that are with third - party financial institutions that exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance limits. While we monitor daily the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or become subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in our operating accounts.. 46. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy.. While we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months, the timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including the other risk factors described above and below.. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain other debt financing, which could be difficult or impossible depending on the state of economic and capital markets environments at the time, as well as the state of our business, operating results and financial condition. Our debt levels may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We cannot assure that additional financing, if required or desired, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all.. Risks Related to the Regulation of our Products and Business. Modifications, upgrades and future products related to the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems or new indications may require new FDA 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals, and such modifications, or any defects in design, manufacture or labeling may require us to recall or cease marketing the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems until approvals or clearances are obtained.. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by local, state and the federal government, including by the FDA. The FDA regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device's design, development, testing manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, adverse event reporting, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Before a new medical device, or a new intended use or indication of or claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either premarket approval or 510(k) clearance from the FDA, unless an exemption exists. Either process can be expensive, lengthy and unpredictable. The FDA's 510(k) clearance process generally takes from three to twelve months, but it can last longer. The process of obtaining premarket approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and it generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. Additionally, outside of the United States, our products are subject to clearances and approvals by foreign governmental agencies similar to the FDA. In order to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals from these governmental agencies, which could include local requirements and safety standards, which can be time consuming, burdensome and uncertain. Despite the time, effort and cost, there can be no assurance that a particular device or a modification of a device will be approved or cleared by the FDA or any foreign governmental agency in a timely fashion, if at all. Even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for those products, and how those products can be promoted.. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The FDA also may change its policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or 510(k) clearance of our device, or could impact our ability to market our currently cleared device. We are also subject to medical device reporting regulations which require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury. We also are subject to QSR, compliance with which is necessary to receive FDA clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for us to be able to continue to market a cleared or approved product in the United States. After a product is placed in the market, we are also subject to regulations by the FDA and Federal Trade Commission related to the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure our claims are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate our claims and that our advertising is not false or misleading. Our products are also subject to state regulations and various worldwide laws and regulations.. 47. A component of our strategy is to continue to upgrade the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. Upgrades previously released by us required 510(k) clearance before we were able to offer them for sale. We expect our future upgrades will similarly require 510(k) clearance; however, future upgrades may be subject to the substantially more time consuming data generation requirements and uncertain premarket approval or clearance process. If we were required to use the premarket approval process for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, which could harm our business.. The FDA requires device manufacturers to make their own determination of whether or not a modification requires an approval or clearance; however, the FDA can review a manufacturer's decision not to submit for additional approvals or clearances. Any modification to an FDA approved or cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or efficacy or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new premarket approval or 510(k) clearance. The FDA has recently issued a draft guidance that, if finalized, will result in manufacturers needing to seek a significant number of new or additional clearances for changes made to legally marketed devices. We cannot assure you that the FDA will agree with our decisions not to seek approvals or clearances for particular device modifications or that we will be successful in obtaining premarket approvals or 510(k) clearances for modifications in a timely fashion, if at all.. We have obtained 510(k) clearance for the CyberKnife Systems for the treatment of tumors anywhere in the body where radiation is indicated, and we have obtained 510(k) clearance for the TomoTherapy Systems to be used as integrated systems for the planning and delivery of IMRT for the treatment of cancer. We have made modifications to the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional approvals or clearances. If the FDA disagrees, based on new finalized guidance and requires us to obtain additional premarket approvals or 510(k) clearances for any modifications to the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems and we fail to obtain such approvals or clearances or fail to secure approvals or clearances in a timely manner, we may be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or to recall such modified device until we obtain FDA approval or clearance and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties.. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries in which we market and sell our products have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design, manufacture or labeling. A government mandated recall, or a voluntary recall by us, could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling and user manuals. Any recall could divert management's attention, cause us to incur significant expenses, generate negative publicity, harm our reputation with customers, negatively affect our future sales and business, require redesign of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems, and harm our operating results. In these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant enforcement action. If any of these events were to occur, our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner would be adversely affected, which in turn would harm our future growth.. We are subject to federal, state and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our operations, the violation of which could result in substantial penalties and harm our business.. In addition to regulation by the FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries, our operations are subject to other laws and regulations, such as laws and rules governing interactions with healthcare providers, anti-corruption laws, privacy rules and transparency laws. In order to maintain compliance with these laws and requirements, we must continually keep abreast of any changes or developments to be able to integrate compliance protocols into the development and regulatory documentation of our products. Failure to maintain compliance could result in substantial penalties to us and harm our business.. Laws and ethical rules governing interactions with healthcare providers.  The Medicare and Medicaid \"anti - kickback\" laws, and similar state laws, prohibit soliciting, offering, paying or accepting any payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce any individual or entity to either refer patients to or purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of, healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Such laws impact our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by reducing the types of financial arrangements we may have with our customers, potential customers, marketing consultants and other service providers. They particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, product loans, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. Many of these laws are broadly drafted and are open to a variety of interpretations, making it difficult to determine with any certainty whether certain arrangements violate such laws, even if statutory safe harbors are available.. 48. In addition to such anti - kickback laws, federal and state \"false claims\" laws generally prohibit the knowing filing or causing the filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from government payors. Although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be held liable under these laws if they are deemed to \"cause\" the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses or indications that are not approved by the FDA.. We are also subject to federal and state physician self - referral laws. The federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act of 1989, commonly known as the Stark Law, prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, physician referrals of Medicare and Medicaid patients to an entity providing certain \"designated health services\" if the physician or an immediate family member has any financial relationship with the entity. The Stark Law also prohibits the entity receiving the referral from billing any good or service furnished pursuant to an unlawful referral. Various states have corollary laws to the Stark Law, including laws that require physicians to disclose any financial interest they may have with a healthcare provider to their patients when referring patients to that provider. Both the scope and exceptions for such laws vary from state to state.. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of these \"anti - kickback,\" \"false claims,\" \"self - referral\" or other similar laws in foreign jurisdictions, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, which may include significant civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from healthcare programs. The impact of any such violations may lead to curtailment or restructuring of our operations, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. Anti - corruption laws.  We are also subject to laws regarding the conduct of business overseas, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, the Brazil Clean Companies Act, and other similar laws in foreign countries in which we operate. The FCPA prohibits the provision of illegal or improper inducements to foreign government officials in connection with the obtaining of business overseas. Becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to ensure that we and our distributors comply with such laws, rules and regulations and mitigate and protect against corruption risks could be quite costly, and there can be no assurance that any policies and procedures we do implement will protect us against liability under the FCPA or related laws for actions taken by our employees, executive officers, distributors, agents and other intermediaries with respect to our business. Violations of the FCPA or other similar laws by us or any of our employees, executive officers, distributors, agents or other intermediaries could subject us or the individuals involved to criminal or civil liability, cause a loss of reputation in the market, and materially harm our business.. Laws protecting patient health information.  There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has promulgated patient privacy rules under the HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information of patients by limiting their use and disclosure, giving patients the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most uses and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. The HIPAA privacy standard was amended by the HITECH, enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Although we are not a \"covered entity\" under HIPAA, we are considered a \"business associate\" of certain covered entities and, as such, we are directly subject to HIPAA, including its enforcement scheme and inspection requirements, and are required to implement policies, procedures as well as reasonable and appropriate physical, technical and administrative security measures to protect individually identifiable health information we receive from covered entities. Our failure to protect health information received from customers in compliance with HIPAA or other laws could subject us to civil and criminal liability to the government and civil liability to the covered entity, could result in adverse publicity, and could harm our business and impair our ability to attract new customers.. 49. Transparency laws.  The Sunshine Act, which was enacted by Congress as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on December 14, 2011, requires each applicable manufacturer, which includes medical device companies such as Accuray, to track and report to the federal government on an annual basis all payments and other transfers of value from such applicable manufacturer to U.S. licensed physicians and teaching hospitals as well as physician ownership of such applicable manufacturer's equity, in each case subject to certain statutory exceptions. Such data will be made available by the government on a publicly searchable website. Failure to comply with the data collection and reporting obligations imposed by the Sunshine Act can result in civil monetary penalties ranging from $1,000 to $10,000 for each payment or other transfer of value that is not reported (up to a maximum of $150,000 per reporting period) and from $10,000 to $100,000 for each knowing failure to report (up to a maximum of $1 million per reporting period). In addition, we are subject to similar state and foreign laws related to the tracking and reporting of payments and other transfers of value to healthcare professionals, the violation of which could, among other things, result in civil monetary penalties and adversely impact our reputation and business.. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may force us to incur additional expenses, may result in damage to our business reputation and may adversely impact our ability to conduct our business.. The Dodd - Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules promulgated by the SEC under such act require companies, including Accuray, to disclose the existence in their products of certain metals, including tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and their derivatives, that originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. Under these rules, we are required to obtain sourcing data from suppliers, perform supply chain due diligence, and file annually with the SEC a specialized disclosure report on Form SD covering the prior calendar year. These requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of components used in our products. We may face reputational harm if we determine that certain of our components contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to alter our processes or sources of supply to avoid using such materials. Additionally, we may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet this requirement, such customers may choose not to purchase our products, which could adversely impact sales of our products, and impact our results of operation. In addition, we have incurred and expect to incur additional costs to comply with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products.. If we or our distributors do not obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals in a specific country, we will not be able to market and sell our products in that country.. To be able to market and sell our products in a specific country, we or our distributors must comply with applicable laws and regulations of that country. In jurisdictions where we rely on our distributors to manage the regulatory process, we are dependent on their ability to do so effectively. While the laws and regulations of some countries do not impose barriers to marketing and selling our products or only require notification, others require that we or our distributors obtain the approval of a specified regulatory body. These laws and regulations, including the requirements for approvals, and the time required for regulatory review vary from country to country. The governmental agencies regulating medical devices in some countries, for example, require that the user interface on medical device software be in the local language. We currently provide user guides and manuals, both paper copies and electronically, in the local language but only provide an English language version of the user interface. Obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive and time - consuming, and we cannot be certain that we or our distributors will receive regulatory approvals in each country in which we market or plan to market our products. If we modify our products, we or our distributors may need to apply for additional regulatory approvals before we are permitted to sell them. We may not continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the authorizations that we or our distributors have received. It can also be costly for us and our distributors to keep up with regulatory changes issued or mandated from time to time. If we change distributors, it may be time - consuming and disruptive to our business to transfer the required regulatory approvals, particularly if such approvals are maintained by our third - party distributors on our behalf. If we or our distributors are unable to maintain our authorizations, or fail to obtain appropriate authorizations in a particular country, we will no longer be able to sell our products in that country, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially adversely affected.. 50. Within the European Union, we are required under the Medical Device Directive to affix the Conformité Européene, or CE, mark on our products in order to sell the products in member countries of the EU. This conformity to the applicable directives is done through self - declaration and is verified by an independent certification body, called a Notified Body, before the CE mark can be placed on the device. Once the CE mark is affixed to the device, the Notified Body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable European laws or directives. CE marking demonstrates that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the European Union countries to allow free movement of trade within those countries. If we cannot support our performance claims and/or demonstrate or maintain compliance with the applicable European laws and directives, we lose our CE mark, which would prevent us from selling our products within the European Union.. Under the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law in Japan, a pre - market approval necessary to sell, market and import a product, or Shonin, must be obtained from the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW), for our products. Before issuing approvals, MHLW examines the application in detail with regard to the quality, efficacy, and safety of the proposed medical device. The Shonin is granted once MHLW is content with the safety and effectiveness of the medical device. The time required for approval varies. A delay in approval could prevent us from selling our products in Japan, which could impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business.. In addition to laws and regulations regarding medical devices, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations around the world regulating our operations, including those relating to the use, generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials, which laws impose compliance costs on our business and can also result in liability to us. Although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations, risk of accidental contamination or injury can never be fully eliminated. In the event of an accident, state or federal or other applicable authorities may curtail our use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. In addition, future changes in these laws and regulations could also increase our costs of doing business. We must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate our compliance into the development and regulatory documentation for our products. Failure to meet these standards could limit our ability to market our products in those regions that require compliance to such standards. For example, the European Union has adopted directives that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances or other regulated substances in some of our products sold there, unless such products are eligible for an exemption. While we believe that certain of our products are exempt, there can be no guarantee that such determination would not be challenged or that the regulations would not change in a way that would subject our products to such regulation. These directives, along with other laws and regulations that may be adopted by other countries, could increase our operating costs in order to maintain access to certain markets, which could adversely affect our business.. Healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect demand for our products, our revenue and our financial condition.. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, known as the Accordable Care Act (ACA), and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law. The ACA provides for, among other things, a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of medical devices, including our products, effective as of 2013. The excise tax was suspended for a two year period beginning January 1, 2016 and was recently further suspended through December 31, 2019. If and when enacted, this tax burden may have a material, negative impact on our business, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, these two pieces of legislation include a large number of other health related provisions, including expanding Medicaid eligibility, requiring most individuals to have health insurance, establishing new regulations on health plans, establishing health insurance exchanges, requiring manufacturers to report payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, modifying certain payment systems to encourage more cost - effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste and including new tools to address fraud and abuse. The laws also include a decrease in the annual rate of inflation for Medicare payments to hospitals and the establishment of an independent payment advisory board to suggest methods of reducing the rate of growth in Medicare spending. We do not yet know the full impact that the ACA will have on our business. The taxes imposed by the ACA and the expansion in the government's role in the U.S. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by third-party payors for our products, or reduced volume of medical procedures conducted with our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The federal government may take further action regarding the ACA, including, but not limited to, repeal or replacement. Most recently, the Tax Act was signed into law in December 2017, which, among other things, removed penalties for not complying with the individual mandate to carry health insurance. Additionally, all or a portion of the ACA and related subsequent legislation may be modified, repealed or otherwise invalidated through judicial challenge, which could result in lower numbers of insured individuals, reduced coverage for insured individuals and adversely affect our business.. 51. In addition, since the adoption of the Affordable Care Act, other legislation designed to keep federal healthcare costs down has been proposed or passed. For example, under the sequestration required by the Budget Control Act of 2011, as amended by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, Medicare payments for all items and services under Parts A and B incurred on or after April 1, 2013 have been reduced by up to 2%. Future federal legislation may impose further limitations on the coverage or amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third - party payors. These limitations could have a negative impact on the demand for our products and services, and therefore on our financial position and results of operations.. Since the enactment of the ACA, CMS continues its efforts to move away from fee - for - service payments for furnishing items and services in Medicare. In the past several rulemaking cycles, CMS has increased packaging policies and created larger payment bundles across the Medicare Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OPPS). One example is CMS' expansion of Comprehensive Ambulatory Payment Classifications (C - APCs), under which payment for adjunctive and secondary items, services and procedures are packaged into the most costly primary procedure at the claim level. Beyond the OPPS, CMS' Innovation Center has launched a number of alternative payment model (APM) demonstrations that involve episode - based payment. Since 2011, for example, CMMI has created or is in the process of creating major federal initiatives to test episode - based payments, such as the Bundled Payments for Care Improvement (BPCI), Oncology Care Model (OCM), and Specialty Practitioners Payment Model Opportunities.. Furthermore, the Patient Access and Medicare Protection Act (PAMPA) of 2015 froze payment for some radiation therapy delivery and related services, and requires CMS to provide a report to Congress on the development of an APM for radiation therapy services provided in non - facility settings. While these types of payment packaging policies and episode - based payments may impact reimbursement for overall patient care, including items and services furnished to patients, they also create incentives for providers to carefully assess the value proposition of technology purchases and uses. The impacts of these payment and delivery system changes are in their infancy and their overall effects remain under review.. Future legislative or policy initiatives directed at reducing costs could be introduced at either the federal or state level. We cannot predict what healthcare reform legislation or regulations, if any, including any potential repeal or amendment of the ACA, will be enacted in the United States or elsewhere, what impact any legislation or regulations related to the healthcare system that may be enacted or adopted in the future might have on our business, or the effect of ongoing uncertainty or public perception about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may materially lower reimbursements for our products, materially reduce medical procedure volumes and significantly and adversely affect our business.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock is volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly, which could lead to losses for stockholders.. The trading prices of the stock of high - technology companies of our size can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or out of proportion to the operating performance of these companies. Our stock price has experienced periods of volatility. Broad market fluctuations may also harm our stock price. Any negative change in the public's perception of the prospects of companies that employ similar technology or sell into similar markets could also depress our stock price, regardless of our actual results.. In addition to the other risk factors described above and below, factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include:. •  regulatory developments related to manufacturing, marketing or sale of the CyberKnife or TomoTherapy Systems;. •  political or social uncertainties;. •  changes in product pricing policies;. 52. •  variations in our operating results, as well as costs and expenditures;. •  announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors;. •  changes in analysts' estimates, investors' perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' and our own estimates;. •  recruitment or departure of key personnel;. •  the performance of our competitors and investor perception of the markets and industries in which we compete;. •  announcement of strategic transactions or capital raising activities; and. •  market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole.. The sale of material amounts of common stock by our stockholders could encourage short sales by third parties and depress the price of our common stock.. The downward pressure on our stock price caused by the sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, by any of our significant stockholders could cause our stock price to decline, thus allowing short sellers of our stock an opportunity to take advantage of any decrease in the value of our stock. The presence of short sellers in our common stock may further depress the price of our common stock.. Future issuances of shares of our common stock could dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders.. Any issuance of equity securities could dilute the interests of our stockholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding options or for other reasons.. In February 2013, we issued $115.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due February 1, 2018 (the \"3.50% Convertible Notes\"). In April 2014, we issued approximately $70.3 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.50% Series A Convertible Senior Notes due February 1, 2018 (the \"3.50% Series A Convertible Notes\", and collectively with the 3.50% Convertible Notes, the Existing 3.50% Convertible Notes) and paid approximately $0.4 million in cash to refinance approximately $70.3 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.50% Convertible Notes.. In August 2017, we issued $85.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 (the \"3.75% Convertible Notes\") under an indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. $53.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Notes were issued to certain holders of its outstanding 3.50% Convertible Notes and 3.50% Series A Convertible Notes (together, the \"Existing Notes\") in exchange for approximately $47.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Existing Notes (the \"Exchange\") and $32.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Notes were issued to certain other qualified new investors for cash. The net proceeds of the cash issuance were used to repurchase approximately $28.0 million of Existing Notes (the \"Repurchase\"). In February 2018, pursuant to the Agreements, the Company paid $40.2 million in cash to settle outstanding principal and accrued interest, and issued 254,000 shares of the Company's common stock to retire the 3.50% Convertible Notes and the 3.50% Series A Convertible Notes. To the extent we issue common stock upon conversion of any outstanding Convertible Notes, that conversion would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders.. 53. The conditional conversion features of the 3.75% Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion features of the 3.75% Convertible Notes are triggered, holders of the 3.75% Convertible Notes, as applicable, will be entitled to convert such notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert such notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying solely cash in lieu of any fractional share), including if we have irrevocably elected full physical settlement upon conversion, we would be required to make cash payments to satisfy all or a portion of our conversion obligation based on the applicable conversion rate, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert such notes, if we have irrevocably elected net share settlement upon conversion we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of such notes as a current rather than long - term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. Provisions in the indenture for the Convertible Notes, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial in the opinion of our stockholders.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third - party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial in the opinion of our stockholders. These provisions include:. •  authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt;. •  establishing a classified board of directors, which could discourage a takeover attempt;. •  prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would limit the ability of less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;. •  limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. •  prohibiting stockholder action by written consent and requiring that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and. •  establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. Generally, Section 203 prohibits stockholders who, alone or together with their affiliates and associates, own more than 15% of the subject company from engaging in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder of such subject company without approval of the board or 662/3% of the independent stockholders. The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. A change of control will also trigger an event of default under the Revolving Credit Facility. If an event of default occurs, the agent for the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility may, at its discretion, suspend or terminate any of the lenders' loan obligations thereunder and/or declare all or any portion of the loan then - outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility, including all accrued but unpaid interest thereon, to be accelerated and immediately due and payable.. 54. Furthermore, if a \"fundamental change\" (as such terms are defined in each the indentures of the Convertible Notes) occurs, holders of the Convertible Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Convertible Notes. A \"fundamental change\" generally occurs when there is a change in control of Accuray (acquisition of 50% or more of our voting stock, liquidation or sale of Accuray not for stock) or trading of our stock is terminated. In the event of a \"make - whole fundamental change\" (as such term is defined in each of the indentures for the Convertible Notes), we may also be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to the Convertible Notes surrendered for conversion in connection with such make - whole fundamental change. A \"make - whole fundamental change\" is generally a sale of Accuray not for stock in another publicly traded company. In addition, each of the indentures for the Convertible Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Convertible Notes.. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, prospects, contractual arrangements, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, a return on a stockholders' investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates.. 55"
