[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations.. Risks related to our business. We have a history of operating losses and were last profitable in 2015, and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future; we expect to continue to be substantially dependent on revenues from the sale of Ampyra for the foreseeable future and those revenues may rapidly and significantly decline due to potential generic competition.. We have been highly dependent on the commercial success of Ampyra in the U.S. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of Ampyra. Our Orange Book-listed patents have been the subject of lawsuits relating to Paragraph IV Certification Notices received from generic drug manufacturers, who have submitted Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, with the FDA seeking marketing approval for generic versions of Amypra (dalfampridine) Extended Release Tablets, 10mg. The ANDA filers challenged the validity of our Orange Book-listed patents for Ampyra, and they also asserted that generic versions of their products do not infringe certain claims of these patents. In March 2017, we announced a decision by the United States District Court for the District of Delaware upholding our Ampyra Orange Book-listed patent set to expire on July 30, 2018, but invalidating our four other Orange Book-listed patents pertaining to Ampyra set to expire between 2025 and 2027. Under this decision, we expect to maintain patent exclusivity with respect to Ampyra at least through July 30, 2018, although the other parties to the lawsuit have appealed the District Court's decision upholding the patent set to expire in July 2018. We may experience a significant decline in Ampyra revenues as a result of the announcement of the Court decision in 2017, and we expect to experience a rapid and significant decline in Ampyra sales beyond July 2018 due to competition from generic versions of Ampyra that may be marketed after the expiration of our remaining Ampyra patent, unless the District Court's decision to invalidate the four other patents is overturned on appeal, which could include reversal or a remand by the appeals court back to the District Court. If the appeals court does not overturn the District Court's decision by July 30, 2018, multiple ANDA filers may be able to launch generic versions of Ampyra absent injunctive relief. We may be unable to achieve profitability again or sustain profitability and positive cash flow from operations because of this development and also because we expect to continue investing significant amounts to continue product development and research and development activities, and, potentially, to acquire new products and product candidates.. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $455.1 million. We had net losses of $223.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and $34.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Our prospects for achieving and sustaining profitability in the future will depend primarily on how successful we are in:. •  successfully defending our intellectual property relating to Ampyra, including our appeal of the March 2017 ruling by the United States District Court for the District of Delaware;. •  obtaining NDA approval for Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder), a self-administered, inhaled formulation of levodopa using our proprietary ARCUS drug delivery technology, for the treatment of OFF periods in people with Parkinson's taking a carbidopa/levodopa regimen;. •  successfully launching Inbrija in the U.S.;. •  obtaining MAA approval in the E.U. for Inbrija and commercializing through potential ex-U.S. partner. •  continuing to advance and/or out-license our earlier-stage clinical development programs; and. •  expanding our product development pipeline through the potential in-licensing and/or acquisition of additional products and technologies.. 35. If we are not successful in executing our business plan, we may not achieve or sustain profitability and even if we do so, we may not meet sales expectations. Also, even if we are successful in executing our business plan, our profitability may fluctuate from period to period due to our level of investments in sales and marketing, research and development, and product and product candidate acquisitions. For example, in 2018 we expect to invest a significant amount to support our most advanced program, Inbrija.. The continued commercial success of Ampyra, and if approved the success of Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder) and any other future products, are highly dependent on market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, adequate reimbursement by government and other third-party payers, and other factors.. In general, the success of our products, including Inbrija, if approved, is subject to numerous factors, some of which are not within our control, including the following:. •  the loss of intellectual property protection for our products, which would enable generic competition.. •  the effectiveness of our sales, managed markets and marketing efforts;. •  the acceptance of our products in the medical community, particularly with respect to whether physicians and patients view our other products as safe and effective for its labeled indication, and whether it has an acceptable benefit-to-risk profile, and the rate of adoption by healthcare providers and the target population of patients;. •  the availability of adequate reimbursement by third-party payers;. •  the continued use of compounded 4-AP instead of Ampyra, available through pharmacies in the U.S. and elsewhere that engage in compounding;. •  the occurrence of any side effects, adverse reactions, customer complaints or misuse (or any unfavorable publicity relating thereto) stemming from the use of Ampyra, Inbrija or our other products or identified in ongoing or future studies of those products;. •  the development of products that compete with or are an alternative to Ampyra, Inbrija, or our other products as therapies for the treatment of underlying medical conditions or their symptoms, the timing of market entry for those competing or alternative products, the perceived advantages of competing or alternative therapies over our products, and the pricing of our products as compared to the pricing of those competing or alternative products; and. Market acceptance of our products and product candidates depends on the benefits of our products in terms of safety, efficacy, convenience, ease of administration and cost effectiveness and our ability to demonstrate these benefits to physicians, patients and payers. Market acceptance also depends on the pricing of our products and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers, as well as on the effectiveness of our sales and marketing activities. Physicians may not prescribe our products, and patients may determine, for any reason, that our products are not useful to them. For example, physicians may not believe that the benefits of Ampyra, Inbrija or our other products or product candidates are meaningful for patients. As described below in these risk factors, FDA-approved product labeling for Ampyra is limited and may harm its market acceptance. Also, if Ampyra, Inbrija, or other products are not listed on the preferred drug lists of third-party payers, or Ampyra, Inbrija or other products are on the preferred drug list but subject to unfavorable limitations or preconditions or in disadvantageous positions on tiered formularies, our sales may suffer.. Also, in the U.S., the federal government has provided significantly increased funding for comparative effectiveness research, which may compare our products with other treatments and may result in published findings that would, in turn, discourage use of our products by physicians and payments for our products by payers. Similar research is funded in other countries, including in some countries in Europe.. The failure of any of our products or product candidates, once approved, to achieve market acceptance would limit our ability to generate revenue and would harm our results of operations. If market acceptance of our products in the U.S., EU, or other countries does not meet expectations, our revenues or royalties from product sales would suffer and this could cause our stock price to decline or could otherwise adversely affect our stock price.. 36. Our restructuring may not adequately reduce our expenses, and we may encounter difficulties associated with the related organizational change.. In April 2017, following a decision by the United States District Court for the District of Delaware to invalidate certain patents relating to Ampyra, we implemented a corporate restructuring to reduce our cost structure and focus our resources on Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder) and our other strategic priorities. As part of this restructuring, we reduced headcount by approximately 20%. If our restructuring does not adequately reduce our expenses, further restructuring activities may be required in the future. In any event, the benefits of the restructuring are not expected to offset the loss of revenues from decreased long-term Ampyra sales following the invalidation of our patents. We expect this loss of revenues to be rapid and significant if and when generic versions of Ampyra are marketed.. Our restructuring may have other unintended consequences as well, including, for example, making it more difficult for us to attract and retain highly skilled personnel in a competitive environment. We may also experience operational disruptions from our reduction in personnel. The loss of key personnel such as regulatory or manufacturing functions could disrupt our operations and sales force attrition could harm our ability to maintain Ampyra sales and, if we obtain FDA approval for Inbrija, commercialize that product.. Our ability to use net operating loss carry forwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels or there is a change in ownership of Acorda.. In general, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), a corporation is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize net operating losses, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $144 million of NOLs incurred during 2017 and earlier that have a 20 year carryforward available to reduce taxable income in future years. Federal income tax losses generated in tax years ending after January 1, 2018 can generally be carried forward indefinitely, due to recently enacted tax reform legislation. However, the ability to use net operating loss carryforwards will be dependent on our ability to generate taxable income and will be subject to an annual limitation of 80% of taxable income.. Our ability to utilize the NOL's may be further limited if we undergo an ownership change, as defined in section 382 of the Code. This ownership change could be triggered by substantial changes in the ownership of our outstanding stock, which are generally outside of our control. An ownership change would exist if the stockholders, or group of stockholders, who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the value of our stock, or are otherwise treated as 5% stockholders under section 382 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of our stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding the potential ownership change. In the event of an ownership change, section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOL's. If an ownership change were to occur, the annual limitation under Section 382 could result in a material amount of our NOLs expiring unused. This would significantly impair the value of our NOL asset and, as a result, could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations.. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.. We are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and Puerto Rico, as well as certain European countries where we have subsidiaries and/or subsidiary operations. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax liabilities. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome with respect to the taxes we owe may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements. If the Internal Revenue Service, or other taxing authority, disagrees with the positions taken by us, we could have additional tax liability, and this could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, governments may adopt tax reform measures that significantly increase our worldwide tax liabilities, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in the highly-regulated pharmaceutical industry.. Our research, development, preclinical and clinical trial activities, as well as the manufacture and marketing of any products that we have developed or in the future may successfully develop, are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies abroad.. 37. In order to conduct clinical trials to obtain FDA approval to commercialize any drug or biological product candidate, an investigational new drug, or IND, application must first be submitted to the FDA and must become effective before clinical trials may begin. Subsequently, if the product candidate is regulated as a drug, a new drug application, or NDA, must be submitted to the FDA and approved before commercial marketing may begin. The NDA must include the results of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials demonstrating, among other things, that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in humans for each target indication. If the product candidate, such as an antibody, is regulated as a biologic, a biologic license application, or BLA, must be submitted and approved before commercial marketing may begin. Extensive submissions of preclinical and clinical trial data are required to demonstrate the safety, potency and purity for each intended use. The FDA may refuse to accept our regulatory submissions for filing if they are incomplete. For example, in August 2017, we received a \"Refuse to File,\" or RTF, letter from the FDA regarding the NDA we had submitted in June 2017 for Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder), to treat symptoms of OFF periods in people with Parkinson's disease taking a carbidopa/levodopa regimen. The FDA specified two reasons for the RTF: first, the date when the manufacturing site would be ready for inspection, and second, a question regarding the submission of the drug master production record. The FDA also requested that we submit additional information when we resubmit the NDA, though this was not part of the basis for the RTF. We resubmitted the Inbrija NDA in December 2017. On February 20, 2018, we announced that the resubmitted NDA was accepted for filing by the FDA, and that under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, the FDA has set a target date of October 5, 2018. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of an NDA or BLA to the FDA, and even fewer are approved for commercialization.. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals for drugs is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Any regulatory approvals may be for fewer or narrower indications than we request, may include distribution restrictions, or may be conditioned on burdensome post-approval study or other requirements, including the requirement that we institute and follow a special risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, to monitor and manage potential safety issues, all of which may eliminate or reduce the drug's market potential. Additional adverse events that could impact commercial success, or even continued regulatory approval, might emerge with more extensive post-approval patient use. Investigational products, such as Inbrija, are regulated as combination products and require that we satisfy FDA that both the drug and device component of the products satisfy FDA requirements. Failure to satisfy the FDA's requirements for either the drug or device component of Inbrija or other such combination products could delay approval of these products or result in these products not receiving FDA approval.. Any product for which we currently have or may in the future obtain marketing approval is subject to continual post-approval requirements including, among other things, record-keeping and reporting requirements, packaging and labeling requirements, requirements for reporting adverse drug experiences, import/export controls, restrictions on advertising and promotion, cGMP requirements as well as any other requirements imposed by the applicants NDA or BLA. All of our products and operations are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Regulatory approval of a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to other restrictive conditions of approval that limit our ability to promote, sell or distribute a product. Furthermore, any approval may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Post-market evaluation of a product could result in marketing restrictions or withdrawal from the market.. We may fail to comply with existing legal or regulatory requirements or be slow to adapt, or be unable to adapt, to new legal or regulatory requirements. We may encounter problems with our manufacturing processes, and we may discover previously unknown problems with our products. These circumstances could result in:. •  voluntary or mandatory recalls;. •  voluntary or mandatory patient or physician notification;. •  withdrawal of product approvals;. •  shut-down of manufacturing facilities;. •  receipt of warning letters or untitled letters;. •  product seizures;. •  restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing our products;. •  restrictions on importation of our product candidates;. •  fines and injunctions;. 38. •  civil and criminal penalties;. •  exclusion from participation in government programs; and. •  suspension of review or refusal to approve pending applications.. In addition, we are subject to regulation under other state and federal laws, including requirements regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, environmental protection and hazardous substance control, controlled substances and we may be subject to other local, state, federal and foreign regulations. We cannot predict the impact of those regulations on us, although they could impose significant restrictions on our business and we may have to incur additional expenses to comply with them.. We have no manufacturing capabilities for our products or product candidates other than our Chelsea, Massachusetts facility used to manufacture Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder) and other ARCUS inhaled therapy product candidates, and we are dependent upon Alkermes and other third-parties to supply the materials for, and to manufacture, Ampyra and our other commercial product and products in development.. We do not own or operate, and currently do not plan to own or operate, facilities for production and packaging of Ampyra or our other commercial product other than our Chelsea, Massachusetts facility used to manufacture Inbrija and other ARCUS product candidates. We rely and expect to continue to rely on third parties for the production and packaging of our commercial products, the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, in those products, the inactive ingredients in those products, the finished dosage forms of our products, and where relevant any medical devices that are part of our commercial products. We similarly rely and expect to continue to rely on third parties for the supply of materials for our research and development activities, particularly clinical trials. In addition, due to the unique manner in which our products are manufactured, in many cases we rely on single source providers for our commercial and investigational products, or components of those products. This dependence on others may harm our ability to develop and commercialize our products on a timely and competitive basis. Any such failure may result in decreased product sales and lower product revenue, which would harm our business.. We cannot be certain that we can reach agreement with (or renew existing agreements with) needed third party manufacturers or suppliers on reasonable terms, if at all. Manufacturers or suppliers may choose not to conduct business with us at all, for example if they determine that our particular business requirements would be unprofitable or otherwise not appropriate for their business. Even if we have agreements with third parties, they may not perform their obligations to us and/or they may be unable or unwilling to establish or increase production capacity commensurate with our needs. Also, third party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to their own operational and financial risks that are outside of our control, including macro-economic conditions that may cause them to suffer liquidity or operational problems and that could interfere with their business operations.. In addition, the manufacture and distribution of our products and product candidates, including product components such as API, and the manufacture of medical devices, are highly regulated, and any failure to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our supply of products or our access to materials needed for product development. The third parties we rely on are subject to regulatory review, and any regulatory compliance problems could significantly delay or disrupt commercialization of our products. U.S. and foreign governments and regulatory authorities continue to propose legislative and other measures relating to the manufacture or distribution of pharmaceutical products, including revisions to current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs. Third party manufacturers may be unable or unwilling to comply with new legislative or regulatory measures, and/or compliance with new requirements could increase the price we must pay for our products.. The manufacturing facilities used to produce our products, including those of our third-party manufacturers and suppliers, must comply with cGMPs and will likely have to pass a pre-approval FDA inspection. Third-party manufacturers and suppliers are also subject to periodic FDA inspection for cGMP compliance. Failure by our third-party manufacturers to pass such inspections and otherwise satisfactorily complete the FDA approval regimen with respect to our products or product candidates may result in regulatory actions such as the issuance of FDA Form 483 notices of observations, warning letters, injunctions, facility shut-downs, product seizures, loss of operating licenses, and other civil and criminal penalties. Based on the severity of the regulatory action, our clinical or commercial supplies could be interrupted or limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In some cases, these third-party manufacturers may also be subject to GMP inspections by foreign regulatory authorities. Failure to pass such inspections by foreign regulatory authorities could impede our ability to manufacture product needed for clinical trials or impede our ability to secure product approvals.. 39. If any of our third party manufacturers or suppliers fails to perform their obligations to us or otherwise have an interruption in or discontinues supply to us, we may be forced to seek supply from a different third party manufacturer or supplier. In such event, we may experience significant delays associated with finding an alternative manufacturer or supplier that is properly qualified to produce our products and product candidates or the API or other components of those products and product candidates in accordance with FDA requirements and our specifications. This could interfere with product sales or cause interruptions of, or delays in, our research and development programs. We may not be able to establish arrangements with an alternative manufacturer or supplier on reasonable terms, if at all. In some cases, the technical skills required to manufacture our products or product candidates or the API or other components of such products or product candidates may be unique or proprietary to the original manufacturer or supplier and we may have difficulty, or there may be contractual restrictions prohibiting us from, transferring such skills to a backup or alternative supplier, or we may be unable to transfer such skills at all.. We rely on Alkermes to supply us with our requirements for Ampyra. Under our supply agreement with Alkermes, we are obligated to purchase at least 75% of our yearly supply of Ampyra from Alkermes, and we are required to make compensatory payments if we do not purchase 100% of our requirements from Alkermes, subject to specified exceptions. We and Alkermes have agreed that we may purchase up to 25% of our annual requirements from Patheon, a mutually agreed-upon second manufacturing source, with compensatory payment. We and Alkermes also rely on two third-party manufacturers, Regis Technologies, Inc. and CU Chemie Uetikon (GmbH), to supply dalfampridine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, in Ampyra. If these companies experience any disruption in their operations, a delay or interruption in the supply of our Ampyra product could result until the problem is solved or we locate another source of supply.. Under our supply agreement with Alkermes, we provide Alkermes with monthly written 18-month forecasts and with annual written five-year forecasts for our supply requirements of Ampyra. In each of the three months for Ampyra following the submission of our written 18-month forecast, we are obligated to purchase the quantity specified in the forecast, even if our actual requirements are greater or less. Alkermes is not obligated to supply us with quantities in excess of our forecasted amounts, although it has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to do so. If our forecasts of our supply requirements are inaccurate, we may have an excess or insufficient supply of Ampyra.. We similarly rely on other third parties for the manufacture of Qutenza. Also, we intend to rely on third-party manufacturers to make the inhaler and to supply the API in Inbrija, and any failure by a third-party manufacturer or supplier may delay or impair our ability to complete clinical trials or commercialize Inbrija. We have manufactured the capsules containing formulated levodopa, or L-dopa, for our preclinical studies, Phase 1 clinical trials, Phase 2 clinical trials, and Phase 3 clinical trials of Inbrija in our own manufacturing facility. We have relied, and we expect to continue to rely, on third-party plastic molding manufacturers for production of our Inbrija inhalers and third-party suppliers of L-dopa, the API in Inbrija. Our reliance on third parties for the manufacture of inhalers increases the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of our inhalers or will not be able to obtain such quantities at an acceptable cost or quality, which could delay, prevent or impair our development or commercialization efforts. If our third-party plastic molding manufacturer fails to supply the inhalers and we need to enter into alternative arrangements with a different supplier, it could delay our product development activities, as we would have to revalidate the molding and assembly processes pursuant to FDA requirements. If this failure of supply were to occur after we received approval for and commenced commercialization of Inbrija, we might be unable to meet the demand for this product and our business could be adversely affected. Similarly, we do not purchase the API for Inbrija under a supply contract and there is a risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of the API at an acceptable cost or quality, which could delay, prevent or impair our development or commercialization efforts.. If we are unable to use our Chelsea manufacturing facility for any reason, we would be unable to manufacture clinical supply of Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder) and, if this product is approved, commercial quantities of Inbrija or other ARCUS inhaled therapeutic candidates for a substantial amount of time, which would harm our business.. We currently manufacture all clinical supply of Inbrija at our Chelsea, Massachusetts manufacturing facility that we occupy under a lease that expires in December 2025, which we may extend for up to ten years. We intend to manufacture all commercial supplies of Inbrija, if approved for commercial sale, as well as supplies of all additional ARCUS inhaled therapeutic candidates that we may develop, in this manufacturing facility. However, our Chelsea manufacturing facility has not been inspected by the FDA. Prior to commercialization of Inbrija, the FDA will likely conduct a pre-approval inspection. If, during this inspection, the FDA determines that the systems or facility do not meet FDA current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, requirements, the FDA may not grant marketing approval for our product. If we obtain approval from the FDA for Inbrija, we anticipate the need to expand our manufacturing operations at the Chelsea facility after product launch to meet demand depending on the timing and extent of sales growth.. 40. Furthermore, if we were to lose the use of our facility or equipment, our manufacturing facility and manufacturing equipment would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead time and substantial additional funds. Our facility may be affected by natural disasters, such as floods or fire, or we may lose the use of our facility due to manufacturing issues that arise at our facility, such as contamination or regulatory concerns following a regulatory inspection of our facility. We do not currently have back-up capacity and there is only limited third-party manufacturing capacity that would be available to manufacture Inbrija or other ARCUS inhaled therapeutic products or product candidates. In the event of a loss of the use of all or a portion of our facility or equipment for the reasons stated above or any other reason, we would be unable to manufacture Inbrija or any other ARCUS inhaled therapeutic products or product candidates until such time as our facility could be repaired, rebuilt or we are able to address other manufacturing issues at our facility. Any such interruptions in our ability to manufacture these products or product candidates would harm our business.. Expanding our Chelsea manufacturing capacity will be costly and involves numerous risks, and if Inbrija receives FDA approval, our efforts to commercialize the product could be harmed if we cannot complete expansion of the facility in a timely manner.. If Inbrija receives FDA approval, we anticipate the need to expand our manufacturing capacity at the Chelsea facility after product launch to meet demand depending on the timing and extent of sales growth. The ARCUS dry powder aerosol particles are generated by applying our proprietary and multi-step spray drying process to active pharmaceutical ingredient. The application of spray drying in the pharmaceutical industry is highly specialized, and the process of manufacturing ARCUS particles requires significant expertise in dry powder manufacture and handling and capsule filling. Expanding our manufacturing capacity will require substantial additional expenditures and various regulatory approvals and permits. Further, we may need to hire and train additional employees and managerial personnel to staff our expanding manufacturing operations. Manufacturing scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. In addition, we may face difficulties or delays in developing or acquiring the necessary production equipment and technology. Our expanded Chelsea facility will have to continue to comply with cGMP requirements, as described above in these risk factors, as well as other applicable environmental, safety, and other governmental permitting requirements. These challenges could delay or prevent us from successfully expanding our Chelsea manufacturing capacity, which would adversely harm our ability to commercialize Inbrija.. We may incur significant liability if we fail to comply with stringent FDA marketing and promotion regulations.. Our advertising and promotion activities are subject to stringent FDA rules and oversight. Among other requirements, our advertising and promotional materials must not be false or misleading in any particular respect, and must be appropriately substantiated and fairly balanced with information on the safety risks and limitations of our products. We must submit all promotional materials to the FDA by the time of their first use. If the FDA raises concerns regarding our promotional materials or messages, we may be required to modify or discontinue using them and may be required to provide corrective information. Should we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to significant liability including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions.. Each of our products is approved with specific indications and other conditions of use that inform our ability to promote our products. For example, Ampyra is indicated \"to improve walking in adult patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). This was demonstrated by an increase in walking speed.\" The approved labeling also contains other limitations on use and warnings and precautions, the most common adverse reactions, and contraindications for risks. If potential purchasers or those influencing purchasing or prescribing decisions, such as physicians and pharmacists or third party payers, react negatively to Ampyra or other products because of their perception of the limitations or safety risks in the approved product labeling, it may result in lower product acceptance and lower product revenues.. We face significant risks if we promote our drugs \"off-label,\" i.e., for uses other than those that the FDA has approved for our products. Physicians may prescribe drug products for uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA. Similar rules apply in many countries outside the U.S. Off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Although the FDA does not regulate a physician's choice of treatments, it traditionally has prohibited companies from promoting their drugs for off-label uses. Several federal court cases, based on First Amendment principles, have called into question the FDA's ability to enforce against companies solely on the basis of truthful and non-misleading off-label promotion of their drugs. It is unclear, however, how the courts ultimately will resolve this issue or how the FDA's policies may (or may not) change in light of developing case law. Furthermore, off-label promotion of our products could violate advertising and promotion requirements such as the prohibition against false or misleading advertising and/or labeling, or the requirement that approved labeling bear \"adequate directions\" for all of the product's \"intended uses.\" Accordingly, we potentially face significant risk of enforcement should we promote Ampyra, Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder) (if approved), or any other products in the U.S. for any uses that are not consistent with. 41. the products' approved labeling. The FDA and other regulatory and enforcement authorities actively enforce laws and regulations regulating promotion of approved drugs as well as the promotion of products for which marketing approval has not been obtained. A company that is found to have violated these requirements may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions.. Notwithstanding the above-described regulatory restrictions, the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional scientific exchange concerning their products. We engage in medical education activities and communicate with investigators and potential investigators regarding our clinical trials. Although we believe that all of our communications regarding our marketed and investigational products are in compliance with advertising and promotional regulations, the FDA or another regulatory or enforcement authority may disagree.. Any free samples we distribute to physicians must be carefully monitored and controlled, and must otherwise comply with the requirements of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, as amended, and FDA regulations.. The identification of new side effects from Ampyra or any other marketed drug products, or side effects from those products that are more frequent or severe than in the past, would harm our business and could lead to a significant decrease in sales or to the FDA's withdrawal of marketing approval.. Based on our clinical trials, the side effects of Ampyra include, among others, seizures, urinary tract infection, trouble sleeping (insomnia), dizziness, headache, nausea, weakness, back pain, and problems with balance. Since becoming commercially available in 2010, Ampyra has been used in a wider population than in clinical studies. Some patients exposed to Ampyra have reportedly experienced serious adverse side effects, including seizures. In July 2012, the FDA issued a safety communication relating to seizures based on post-marketing data from March 2010 through March 2011, which resulted in FDA safety updates and related changes to the Ampyra product labeling. We constantly monitor adverse event reports for signals regarding potential additional adverse events, which could drive further label changes, such as a September 2012 label change relating to reports of anaphylactic reactions, an October 2016 label change adding vomiting as a side effect of Ampyra, and a September 2017 label change adding information about a drug-drug interaction between Ampyra and Organic Cation Transporters (OCT2) such as cimetidine.. If we or others identify previously unknown side effects, if known side effects are more frequent or severe than in the past, or if we or others detect unexpected safety signals for Ampyra or any products perceived to be similar to Ampyra, then in any of these circumstances:. •  we may decide to, or be required to, send product warning letters or field alerts to physicians, pharmacists and hospitals; and we may be required to make further product label changes;. •  healthcare practitioners, regulatory authorities, third party payers or patients may perceive or conclude that the risks associated with use of Ampyra outweigh the benefits, which could cause FDA to seek to withdraw Ampyra's regulatory approvals or impact the availability of adequate reimbursement by third-party payers;. •  we may be required to reformulate the product, conduct additional preclinical or clinical studies, or make changes in labeling or changes to or reapprovals of manufacturing facilities;. •  the FDA may impose a new risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, on Ampyra or otherwise restrict its distribution and use;. •  our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and. •  government investigations and lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us.. The above occurrences could impair our business by harming or possibly preventing sales of Ampyra, causing sales to fall below projections, and increasing our expenses. We will face similar risks with respect to Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder), if we receive approval for and commercialize that product, and with respect to any other marketed products.. Regulatory approval of our products could be withdrawn and our business could be harmed if we fail to comply with safety and adverse event monitoring, documentation, investigation and reporting requirements.. Under FDA regulations, we are required to monitor the safety of Ampyra and inform healthcare professionals about the risks of drug-associated seizures with Ampyra. We are required to document and investigate reports of adverse events,. 42. and to report them to the FDA in accordance with regulatory timelines based on their severity and expectedness. These requirements are applicable to all marketed drug products and will be applicable to Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder), if approved. Failure to make timely safety reports and to establish and maintain related records could result in FDA withdrawal of marketing authorization or other regulatory action, civil actions against us, or criminal penalties, any of which could harm our business. If the specialty pharmacies that we rely upon to sell Ampyra in the U.S. or our marketing partners or collaborators fail timely to report adverse events and product complaints to us, or if we do not meet the requirements for safety reporting, our business may be harmed.. We are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies related to other regulatory requirements that apply to drugs manufactured or distributed by us.. If we receive a notice of inspectional observations or deficiencies on FDA Form 483, or inspectional observations from foreign regulatory authorities, we may be required to undertake corrective and preventive actions in order to address the FDA's concerns, which could be expensive and time-consuming to complete and could impose additional burdens and expenses. Failure to adequately address the FDA's, or foreign regulatory agency's, concerns could expose us to enforcement and administrative actions.. For example, between 2010 and 2014, FDA conducted a number of inspections focusing on our pharmacovigilance program. These inspections resulted in a series of FDA Form 483s with observations relating to timeliness of adverse event reporting and other aspects of our quality program. We also received a written warning letter, based on the inspections, and citing Acorda for violations of its pharmacovigilance obligations. We provided FDA with formal written responses to each 483 as well as the warning letter. These responses advised FDA of corrective actions we were taking to address all of the issues raised by the inspectional observations and the warning letter. These corrective actions have all been completed. In February 2016, the FDA conducted what it classified as a biennial routine inspection. The inspection focused on pharmacovigilance reporting and product complaint handling, and resulted in one FDA Form 483 observation related to Ampyra \"lack of effect\" complaint trends analysis. We responded to the Form 483, and have taken corrective actions.. We continue to monitor and enhance our adverse event and product complaint reporting systems to ensure continued adherence to regulatory requirements. However, the FDA has not yet issued a \"close-out\" letter to the 2012 warning letter. Although it does not always do so, the FDA may issue a close-out letter when it determines that a company has completed corrective actions that adequately address all of the issues raised by the warning letter. Therefore, the FDA may conclude in subsequent inspections that we have not demonstrated adequate control over our current processes or have not demonstrated adequate closure of our response commitments, and could take action against us without further notice. Action by the FDA against us could require us to take further corrective actions or even that we stop marketing Ampyra and/or result in administrative, civil, or criminal penalties. Any of such actions by the FDA could harm our business.. In addition, our third-party suppliers' drug product manufacturing sites are subject to inspection by the FDA. Some of these sites have been inspected by the FDA and could be inspected by the FDA in the future. If the FDA inspects the process validation efforts and manufacturing process at these sites, the FDA might find what it considers to be deficiencies in the manufacturing process or process validation efforts, which could negatively impact the availability of product supply or, in the case of a potential new product, delay or prevent commercial launch of that product. In some cases, our third-party suppliers' drug manufacturing sites may also be subject to inspection by foreign regulatory authorities. We face similar risks to our business if those third-party manufacturers are unable to comply with foreign regulatory requirements. We and our third-party suppliers are generally required to maintain compliance with cGMPs and are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. In addition, the FDA must approve certain changes to our suppliers or manufacturing methods. If we or our third-party suppliers cannot demonstrate ongoing cGMP compliance, we may be required to withdraw or recall product and interrupt commercial supply of our products. Any delay, interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our products as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of our third-party suppliers, to pass regulatory agency inspection could significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Significant noncompliance could also result in the imposition of monetary penalties, shut-down of manufacturing facilities, or other civil or criminal sanctions. Non-compliance could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue, and damage our reputation.. Even if our suppliers or manufacturing methods are in compliance with applicable requirements, we may encounter problems with the manufacture of our products. To investigate and/or resolve these problems, we may be required to withdraw or recall product and interrupt commercial supply of our products. These events could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue, and damage our reputation. We are required to submit field alert reports to the FDA if we learn of certain. 43. reported problems with our products, and we are required to investigate the causes of the reported problems. Issues identified in field alerts could lead to product recalls and interruption of supplies, which in turn could harm our business.. Also, the Federal Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act requires that trading partners such as our manufacturers, repackagers, wholesale distributors, and dispensers, take certain actions upon determining that a product in their possession or control is suspected to be: counterfeit; diverted; stolen; intentionally adulterated such that the product would result in serious adverse health consequences or death to humans; is the subject of a fraudulent transaction; or appears otherwise unfit for distribution such that the product would be reasonably likely to result in serious adverse health consequences to humans. The suspect product is required to be quarantined while an investigation is promptly conducted to determine whether the product meets any of the above criteria. Once a product is determined to meet any of the above-listed criteria, it will be deemed an illegitimate product. Upon such a determination, the FDA and all trading partners in the supply chain must be notified within 24 hours. The notification and quarantine of product during an investigation could impact product availability for commercial distribution and harm our business.. Our success in maintaining and increasing sales of Ampyra will depend on the continued customer support efforts of our network of specialty pharmacies.. A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of injectable, infused or certain other medications typically for complex or chronic conditions, which often require a high level of patient education and ongoing management. Specialty pharmacies are commonly used to dispense MS drugs, many of which are injectable. The use of specialty pharmacies involves risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these specialty pharmacies will:. •  not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using Ampyra, Ampyra adverse events, or Ampyra product complaints;. •  not effectively dispense or support Ampyra;. •  reduce their efforts or discontinue dispensing or supporting Ampyra;. •  not devote the resources necessary to dispense Ampyra in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect;. •  be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others;. •  not have the required licenses to distribute drugs; or cease operations.. We are dependent on our existing collaborations, and may need additional collaborations, to commercialize products outside of the U.S.. We have not yet developed the capabilities to commercialize products outside of the U.S. Pursuant to our Collaboration Agreement with Biogen, entered into in June 2009, we granted Biogen an exclusive license to develop and commercialize Ampyra and other products containing aminopyridines in all territories outside the U.S. We may enter into additional collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize some of our product candidates in the future. For example, we expect that we will need to enter into collaborations to commercialize Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder) outside of the U.S., if it receives marketing approval in any jurisdictions outside of the U.S., and similarly would need to rely on collaborations for commercializing any other potential products outside of the U.S. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify suitable collaboration partners for Inbrija or other potential products, or that we will be able to enter into collaboration agreements with proposed partners on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to identify collaboration partners or enter into collaborations could harm or delay our efforts to commercialize Inbrija or other potential products outside of the U.S.. Our dependence on Biogen for the development and commercialization of Ampyra outside the U.S., and our dependence on future collaborators for development and commercialization of additional product candidates outside the U.S., is and will subject us to a number of risks, including:. •  we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators devote to the development or commercialization of product candidates or to their marketing and distribution;. •  collaborators may fail to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the development, or commercialization of products or product candidates;. •  collaborators may not be successful in their efforts to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or adequate. 44. product reimbursement in a timely manner, or at all, as discussed further in these risk factors;. •  disputes may arise between us and our collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management's attention and resources;. •  collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation;. •  collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing;. •  business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator's business strategy may also adversely affect a collaborator's willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement;. •  a collaborator could independently move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors;. •  the collaborations may be terminated or allowed to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our product candidates; and. •  collaborators may experience financial difficulties.. While we have negotiated some terms in the Collaboration Agreement with Biogen intended to assist in protecting our rights in certain of the circumstances listed above, there can be no assurance that these terms will provide us with adequate rights and remedies, and actions required to enforce such rights could be costly and time consuming.. We do not currently receive any royalties from Biogen for sales of Fampyra, and we cannot predict whether and when we will receive additional Fampyra royalties.. Under the terms of our Fampyra royalty monetization transaction with HealthCare Royalty Partners, we will not receive royalties from the sale of Fampyra until they receive an agreed upon threshold of royalties. After this threshold is met, if ever, we will continue to receive Fampyra royalty revenue under the terms of our collaboration agreement with Biogen. However, we cannot predict whether and when that threshold will be met, as this will depend on Biogen's ability to commercialize Fampyra, which in turn will depend on factors such as Biogen's ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement as described further in these risk factors.. Our collaborator, Biogen, will need to obtain and maintain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions where it seeks to market or is currently marketing Fampyra.. In order to market our products in the EU and other foreign jurisdictions, separate regulatory approvals must be obtained and maintained and numerous and varying regulatory requirements must be complied with. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional clinical and non-clinical testing as well as additional regulatory agency inspections. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. We and our collaborator may fail to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, individual countries, within the EU or elsewhere, may require additional steps after regulatory approval to gain access to national markets, such as agreements with pricing authorities and other agencies, that may harm the ability of us or our collaborator to market and sell products outside the U.S. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. Inability to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize Fampyra or other product candidates in foreign markets could materially harm our business prospects. In addition, we may face adverse legal and business consequences if Biogen does not comply with regulatory requirements.. Drug development programs, particularly those in early stages of development, may never be commercialized.. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to select successful product candidates, complete preclinical development of these product candidates and advance them to and through clinical trials. We have research and development programs that are early-stage and either have not advanced to clinical trials or are only in Phase 1 trials. These early-stage. 45. product candidates in particular will require significant development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory clearances and substantial additional investment before they can be commercialized, if at all.. Our research and development programs may not lead to commercially viable products for several reasons, and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with drug development described elsewhere in these risk factors. For example, we may fail to identify promising product candidates, our product candidates may fail to be safe and effective in preclinical tests or clinical trials, or we may have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue discovery and development efforts for new product candidates. In addition, because we have limited resources, we are focusing on product candidates that we believe are the most promising. As a result, we may delay or discontinue particular development programs, and we may instead pursue other product candidates. For example, in November 2017 we discontinued our clinical development program for tozadenant, an investigational drug we had been developing for the reduction of OFF time in Parkinson's disease patients. We made this decision based on new information obtained from our Phase 3 clinical trials related to agranulocytosis and associated serious adverse events. We have no current plans to restart the tozadenant clinical development program. From time to time, we may establish and announce certain development goals for our product candidates and programs, including, for example, development goals for our product candidates and programs set forth in this report. However, given the complex nature of the drug discovery and development process, it is difficult to predict accurately if and when we will achieve these goals. If we are unsuccessful in advancing our research and development programs into clinical testing or in obtaining regulatory approval, our long-term business prospects will be harmed.. Our drug products in development must undergo rigorous clinical testing, the results of which are uncertain and could substantially delay or prevent us from bringing them to market.. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for any product candidate, we must undertake extensive clinical testing in humans to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Clinical trials of new product candidates sufficient to obtain regulatory marketing approval are expensive and take years to complete, and the outcome of such trials is uncertain. Clinical development of any product candidate that we determine to take into clinical trials, including our clinical trials described in this report, may be curtailed, redirected, delayed or eliminated at any time for some or all of the following reasons:. •  negative or ambiguous results regarding the efficacy of the product candidate;. •  undesirable side effects that delay or extend the trials, or other unforeseen or undesirable safety issues that make the product candidate not medically or commercially viable;. •  inability to locate, recruit and qualify a sufficient number of patients for our trials;. •  difficulty in determining meaningful end points or other measurements of success in our clinical trials;. •  regulatory delays or other regulatory actions, including changes in regulatory requirements both by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities;. •  difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of our product candidates, or where applicable comparator product or other ancillary materials needed, manufactured under cGMP;. •  delays, suspension or termination of the trials imposed by us, an independent institutional review board (or ethics committee), or a data safety monitoring board, or clinical holds placed upon the trials by the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities;. •  approval by FDA and/or foreign regulatory authorities of new drugs that are more effective than our product candidates;. •  change in the focus of our development efforts or a re-evaluation of our clinical development strategy; and. •  change in our financial position.. A delay in or termination of any of our clinical development programs could harm our business.. Clinical trials are subject to oversight by institutional review boards (or similar ethics committees), data safety monitoring boards, the FDA, and similar foreign regulatory authorities to ensure compliance with good clinical practice requirements, as well as other requirements for the protection of clinical trial participants. We depend, in part, on third-party laboratories and medical institutions to conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials for our products and other third-party. 46. organizations to perform data collection and analysis, all of which must maintain both good laboratory and good clinical practices required by regulators. If any of those standards are not complied with in a clinical trial, the resulting data from the clinical trial may not be usable or we, an institutional review board, the FDA, or a similar foreign regulatory authority may suspend or terminate a trial, which would severely delay our development and possibly end the development of the product candidate.. We rely on third-party contract research organizations, medical centers and others to perform our preclinical and non-clinical testing and clinical trials, our research and development programs could be harmed if they do not perform in an acceptable and legally compliant manner.. We do not have the ability to conduct all aspects of our preclinical or non-clinical testing or clinical trials ourselves. We rely and will continue to rely on clinical investigators, third-party contract research organizations and consultants to perform some or all of the functions associated with preclinical and non-clinical testing and clinical trials. Additionally, we have historically conducted clinical trials in the U.S. and Canada, and more recently we have conducted clinical trial activities into other jurisdictions, particularly Europe. Because we have limited experience conducting clinical trials outside the U.S. and Canada, we place even greater reliance on third-party contract research organizations to manage, monitor and carry out clinical trials in these other jurisdictions. The failure of any of these parties to perform in an acceptable and timely manner in the future, including in accordance with any applicable U.S. or foreign regulatory requirements, such as good clinical and laboratory practices, or preclinical testing or clinical trial protocols, could cause a delay or other adverse effect on our preclinical or non-clinical testing or clinical trials and ultimately on the timely advancement of our research and development programs. Similarly, we rely on medical centers to conduct our clinical trials, and if they fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements or clinical trial protocols, our research and development programs could be harmed.. If we market products in a manner that violates healthcare fraud and abuse laws, or if we violate false claims laws or fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid drug rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, or other applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or additional reimbursement requirements and sanctions, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The distribution, sale and promotion of drug and biological products are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Federal Trade Commission, other divisions of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Justice and individual U.S. Attorney offices within the Department of Justice, and state and local governments. For example, sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, as amended, the False Claims Act, as amended, and are affected by the privacy regulations promulgated pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended and similar state laws. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of safe harbors under these laws, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of these laws. All of these activities are also subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws.. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Industry relationships with specialty pharmacies have also recently been scrutinized under these provisions. Although there are several statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce or facilitate prescribing, purchasing or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability.. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. By statute, a violation of the federal antikickback statute may serve as the basis for a false claim under the false claims act. Numerous pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as: allegedly providing kickbacks, such as free trips, free goods, sham consulting fees and grants and other monetary benefits to prescribers; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that. 47. were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; and engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered, off-label uses. Most states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer.. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include requirements to make payments to government-funded health plans to correct for insufficient rebates paid by us or overpayments made to us, civil monetary penalties, exclusion of our products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. We may also be subject to a corporate integrity agreement, deferred prosecution agreement, or similar arrangement.. Under the federal Sunshine Act, pharmaceutical manufacturers are required to collect information on payments or other transfers of value made to \"covered recipients,\" which are defined as physicians and teaching hospitals. The collected information has to be disclosed in annual reports that are placed on a public database. Similarly, pharmaceutical manufacturers are also required to annually report samples of prescription drugs requested by and distributed to healthcare providers. The law does not state whether these disclosures regarding samples will be made publicly available, and the FDA has not provided any guidance. If we fail to provide these reports, or if the reports we provide are not accurate, we could be subject to significant penalties.. We participate in the federal Medicaid drug rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as well as several state supplemental rebate programs. Under the Medicaid drug rebate program, we pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our products that are reimbursed by those programs. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid drug rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the Public Health Service Act pharmaceutical pricing program, which requires us to sell our products to certain customers at prices lower than we otherwise might be able to charge. The minimum basic Medicaid rebate for branded prescription drugs is 23.1%, and pharmaceutical manufacturers must pay states rebates on prescription drugs dispensed to Medicaid managed care enrollees. In addition, manufacturers must pay an additional Medicaid rebate on \"line extensions\" (such as extended release formulations) of solid oral dosage forms of branded products.. For products to be made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule, additional pricing laws and requirements apply, as do certain obligations imposed by the Federal Acquisition Regulations. Under the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as amended (VHCA), we are required to offer certain drugs at a reduced price to a number of federal agencies, including the Veterans Administration, the Department of Defense (DOD), the Public Health Service and certain private Public Health Service designated entities, in order to participate in other federal funding programs including Medicare and Medicaid. Also, legislative changes enacted in 2009 require that discounted prices be offered for certain DOD purchases for its TRICARE retail program via a rebate system. Participation under the VHCA requires submission of pricing data and calculation of discounts and rebates pursuant to complex statutory formulas, as well as the entry into government procurement contracts governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulations.. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under federal and state false claims laws for manipulating information submitted to the Medicaid drug rebate program or for knowingly submitting or using allegedly inaccurate pricing information in connection with federal pricing and discount programs.. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The laws and regulations governing the calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by us or our contractors, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. Our methodologies for calculating these prices could be challenged under false claims laws or other laws. We or our contractors could make a mistake in calculating reported prices and required discounts, revisions to those prices and discounts, or determining whether a revision is necessary, which could result in retroactive rebates (and interest and penalties, if any). Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. If we make these mistakes or if governmental agencies make these changes, we could face, in addition to prosecution under federal and state false claims laws, substantial liability and civil monetary penalties, exclusion of our products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines or imprisonment or prosecutors may impose a Corporate Integrity Agreement, Deferred Prosecution Agreement, or similar arrangement.. Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), drug manufacturers are required to provide a 50% discount on prescriptions for branded products filled while the beneficiary is in the Medicare Part D coverage gap, also known as the \"donut hole.\" In addition, the ACA imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. The fee (which is not deductible for federal income tax purposes) is based on the manufacturer's market share of. 48. sales of branded drugs and biologics (excluding orphan drugs) to, or pursuant to coverage under, specified U.S. government programs.. Also, Qutenza differs from Ampyra because it may be administered only by a healthcare professional. For this reason, it is treated as a \"buy-and-bill\" product by most payers, including Medicare, most Medicaid programs, and private payers. Buy-and-bill products must be purchased by healthcare providers before they can be administered to patients. Under the buy-and-bill model, healthcare providers subsequently bill the product to the patient's insurer, which may be a government healthcare program or private health plan. Purchasers of buy-and-bill products that are administered to Medicare patients are reimbursed under that program's Average Sales Price, or ASP, payment model. Because reimbursement for these patients is based on ASP and not the healthcare provider's actual purchase price for the prescription drug, the reimbursement often differs somewhat from the actual price paid by the healthcare provider. Acorda does not sell Qutenza directly to healthcare providers, but rather, healthcare providers purchase this drug from a specialty distributor, who in turn acquires the product from us.. Historically, some pharmaceutical manufacturers have been accused by the government of \"marketing the spread\" between the healthcare provider's purchase price and the reimbursement price, by allegedly promoting the potential to earn profit on each administration of the drug. Alternatively, other manufacturers have been alleged to have \"manipulated\" that spread by manipulating the determination of reimbursement rates by artificially inflating reported prices. We have adopted policies and training programs for our employees intended to prevent marketing or manipulating the spread between the price at which Qutenza is purchased and the price reimbursed by federal healthcare programs. However, if our actions are viewed by government regulators or qui tam relators as inappropriately marketing or manipulating that spread, we could be investigated and, potentially, charged with violations of the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, as amended, the False Claims Act, as amended, the Medicaid drug rebate statute, and similar state laws.. In addition, if the actions we take by providing background educational material and other information to healthcare providers concerning billing for Qutenza are viewed as encouraging healthcare providers to misrepresent the professional services provided to beneficiaries of federal healthcare programs or to otherwise submit claims to federal healthcare programs that are designed to maximize reimbursement inappropriately, this could result in investigations, and possible charges of violating, these same laws.. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably.. The U.S. President and the majority party in both Houses of the U.S. Congress have indicated their desire to repeal the Affordable Care Act. It is unclear whether, when and how that repeal will be effectuated and what the effect on the healthcare sector will be. In addition to the potential repeal of the Affordable Care Act, there are indications that the Medicaid program may be restructured, which could lead to revisions in Medicaid coverage for prescription drugs. The outlook for the healthcare sector is unclear, and we are unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation and regulations. Changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could also harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. Our existing or potential products may not be commercially viable if we fail to obtain or maintain an adequate level of reimbursement for these products by Medicaid, Medicare or other third-party payers.. Our ability to maintain and increase sales and profitability will depend in part on third-party payers, such as government or government-sponsored health administrative authorities, including Medicaid and Medicare Parts B and D, private health insurers and other such organizations, agreeing to reimburse patients for the cost of our products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved drug products. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and services and their reimbursement practices may affect the price levels for Ampyra or potential products such as Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder) if it receives marketing approval. Our business could be materially harmed if the Medicaid program, Medicare program or other third-party payers were to deny reimbursement for our products or provide reimbursement only on unfavorable terms. Our business could also be harmed if the Medicaid program, Medicare program or other reimbursing bodies or payers limit the indications for which our products will be reimbursed to a smaller set of indications than we believe is appropriate or limit the circumstances under which our products will be reimbursed to a smaller set of circumstances than we believe is appropriate.. Third-party payers frequently require that drug companies negotiate agreements with them that provide discounts or rebates from list prices. We have agreed to provide such discounts and rebates to some third-party payers in relation to. 49. Ampyra. We expect increasing pressure to offer larger discounts and discounts to a greater number of third-party payers to maintain acceptable reimbursement levels and access for patients at copay levels that are reasonable. There is no guarantee that we would be able to negotiate agreements with third-party payers at price levels that are profitable to us, or at all. A number of third-party payers also implement utilization management techniques, such as prior authorization or quantity limits for Ampyra, or even refuse to provide reimbursement for Ampyra, and others may do so in the future. Patients who cannot meet the conditions of prior authorizations are often prevented from obtaining the prescribed medication, because they cannot afford to pay for the medication without reimbursement. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining reimbursement for our products at acceptable levels, or if reimbursement for our products by third-party payers is subject to overly restrictive utilization management, our business will be harmed. In addition, if our competitors reduce the prices of their products, or otherwise demonstrate that they are better or more cost effective than our products, this may result in a greater level of reimbursement for their products relative to our products, which would reduce our sales and harm our results of operations.. The Medicare Part D outpatient prescription drug benefit is provided primarily through private entities, which attempt to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. These negotiations increase pressure to lower prescription drug prices or increase rebate payments to offset price. While the law specifically prohibits the U.S. government from interfering in price negotiations between manufacturers and Medicare drug plan sponsors, some members of Congress support legislation that would permit the U.S. government to use its enormous purchasing power to demand discounts from pharmaceutical companies. In addition, the Affordable Care Act contains triggers for Congressional consideration of cost containment measures for Medicare in the event Medicare cost increases exceed a certain level. These cost containment measures could include limitations on prescription drug prices. The Affordable Care Act requires drug manufacturers to provide a 50% discount on prescriptions for branded products filled while the beneficiary is in the Medicare Part D coverage gap, also known as the \"donut hole.\" Legislative or regulatory revisions to the Medicare Part D outpatient prescription drug benefit, as well as additional healthcare legislation that may be enacted at a future date, could reduce our sales and harm our results of operations.. The success of our existing and potential products in the EU substantially depends on achieving adequate government reimbursement.. The commercial success in the EU of products approved there, including Fampyra, primarily depends on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement because, in many European countries, patients may not have access to prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, participation in pricing and reimbursement procedures and negotiating prices with government authorities can delay commercialization. Even if reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may negatively impact revenue from sales of our products and therefore our ability or that of our collaborators, such as Biogen, to sell our products on a profitable basis. Furthermore, cross-border imports from lower-priced markets (parallel imports) into higher-priced markets could harm sales of products by us or our collaborators, such as Biogen, and exert commercial pressure on pricing within a country.. In response to the downturn in global economic conditions in recent years, governments in a number of international markets have announced or implemented measures aimed at reducing healthcare costs to constrain the overall level of government expenditures. This includes Germany and other countries in the EU, where Biogen has obtained regulatory approval for Fampyra. The measures vary by country and include, among other things, mandatory rebates and discounts, reimbursement limitations and reference pricing, price reductions and suspensions on pricing increases on pharmaceuticals. These measures may negatively impact net revenue from Biogen's sales of Fampyra and therefore both the timing of when, if ever, we receive any further royalty revenue from Biogen under the terms of our Fampyra royalty monetization transaction with HealthCare Royalty Partners, and the amount of the royalty we would then receive from Biogen. Furthermore, the adverse financial impact of these measures in any particular country, in addition to related reimbursement or regulatory constraints, could prevent the commercial launch or continued commercialization of Fampyra in that country.. If Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder) receives marketing approval, the factors described above could prevent or harm the commercial launch of that product in the EU.. 50. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or more convenient than our approved products, or obtain marketing approval before we obtain approval of future products, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated.. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense and is expected to increase. Many biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic laboratories, are involved in research and/or product development for various neurological conditions, including Parkinson's disease, or PD, and multiple sclerosis, or MS.. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective, safer or more convenient than our products or the ones we have under development or that render our approved or proposed products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, our competitors may achieve product commercialization before we do. If any of our competitors develops a product that is more effective, safer or more convenient for patients, or is able to obtain FDA approval for commercialization before we do, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance for our products, which would harm our ability to generate revenues and recover the substantial development costs we have incurred and will continue to incur.. Our products may be subject to competition from lower-priced versions of such products and competing products imported into the U.S. from Canada, Mexico and other countries where there are government price controls or other market dynamics that cause the products to be priced lower.. Ampyra. In addition to the potential introduction of generic versions of Ampyra after July 30, 2018, further described below, we are aware of other companies developing products that may compete with Ampyra. These include Adamas Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which is developing ADS-5102 (amantadine hydrochloride) for patients with MS who have walking impairment, and Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which is developing a 3,4-diaminopyridine product, licensed from Biomarin. Furthermore, several companies are engaged in developing products that include novel immune system approaches and cell therapy approaches to remyelination for the treatment of people with MS. These programs are in early stages of development and may compete in the future with Ampyra or some of our product candidates. In addition, in certain circumstances, pharmacists are not prohibited from formulating certain drug compounds to fill prescriptions on an individual patient basis, which is referred to as compounding. We are aware that at present compounded dalfampridine is used by some people with MS and it is possible that some people will want to continue to use compounded formulations even though Ampyra is commercially available.. Ampyra could become subject to competition from generic drug manufacturers. In March 2017, we announced a decision by the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in litigation with certain generic drug manufacturers upholding our Ampyra Orange Book-listed patent set to expire on July 30, 2018, but invalidating our four other Orange Book-listed patents pertaining to Ampyra that were set to expire between 2025 and 2027. Under this decision, we expect to maintain patent exclusivity with respect to Ampyra at least through July 30, 2018, depending on the outcome of appeal of the District Court's decision. The defendant generic drug manufacturers have appealed the District Court's decision upholding the patent that expires in July 2018, and we have appealed the ruling on the four invalidated patents. We expect the appeals process to take approximately 12 to 18 months from the filing of the appeal in May 2017. We expect to experience a rapid and significant decline in Ampyra sales beyond July 2018 due to competition from generic versions of Ampyra that may be marketed after the expiration of our remaining Ampyra patent, unless the District Court's decision on the four invalidated patents is overturned on appeal, which could include reversal or remand by the appeals court back to the District Court. Our litigation with these generic drug manufacturers is described in further detail in Part I, Item 3 of this report. We will need to continue devoting significant resources to this litigation, and we can provide no assurance concerning its duration or outcome.. Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder). If approved for the treatment of OFF periods, (re-emergence of symptoms) Inbrija would compete against on-demand therapies that aim to specifically address Parkinson's disease symptoms. Apokyn, an injectable formulation of apomorphine, is approved for the treatment of OFF periods. Apokyn was approved for this use in the U.S. in 2004 and in Europe in 1993. Also, Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc. is developing a sublingual, or under the tongue, formulation of apomorphine. This program is in Phase 3 clinical development and could potentially be commercially launched ahead of Inbrija. In January 2018, Sunovion announced positive topline results from their pivotal Phase 3 study, which will be used in support of their submission of a New Drug Application expected in spring 2018.. The standard of care for the treatment of Parkinson's disease is oral carbidopa/levodopa, but oral medication can be associated with wide variability in the timing and the amount of absorption and there are significant challenges in creating a regimen that consistently maintains therapeutic effects as Parkinson's disease progresses. Inbrija may face competition from. 51. therapies that can limit the occurrence of OFF periods. Approaches to achieve consistent levodopa plasma concentrations include new formulations of carbidopa/levodopa, such as extended-release and intestinal infusions, and therapies that prolong the effect of levodopa. Impax Laboratories has received FDA approval for RYTARY, an extended-release formulation of oral carbidopa/levodopa, and extended release formulations of oral and patch carbidopa/levodopa are being developed by others including Impax Depomed Inc., Intec Pharma and NeuroDerm Ltd. Also, Abbvie Inc. has developed a continuous administration of a gel-containing levodopa through a tube that is surgically implanted into the intestine. This therapy, known as Duopa, has been approved by the FDA and is approved in the EU.. One or more of our competitors may utilize their expertise in pulmonary delivery of drugs to develop and obtain approval for pulmonary delivery products that may compete with Inbrija and any other of our other ARCUS drug delivery technology product candidates. These competitors may include smaller companies such as Alexza Pharmaceuticals, Inc., MannKind Corporation, Pulmatrix, Inc. and Vectura Group plc and larger companies such as Allergan, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc and Novartis AG. If approved, our product candidates may face competition in the target commercial areas.. We may expand our business through the acquisition of companies or businesses or in-licensing product candidates that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition.. We may in the future seek to expand our products and capabilities by acquiring one or more companies or businesses or in-licensing one or more product candidates. Acquisitions and in-licenses involve numerous risks, including:. •  substantial cash expenditures;. •  potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities;. •  incurrence or assumption of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may not be disclosed to us and may be difficult or impossible for us to identify at the time of acquisition;. •  exposure to business risks or issues, or legal or regulatory compliance issues, such as with the FDA, associated with the acquired or in-licensed company, business or product candidate, which may not be disclosed to us and may be difficult or impossible for us to identify at the time of acquisition or licensing;. •  difficulties in assimilating the personnel and/or operations of the acquired companies;. •  diversion of our management's attention away from other business concerns;. •  commencement of business in markets where we have limited or no direct experience; and. •  potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies or businesses.. We cannot assure you that any acquisition or in-license will result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business or in-licensed products or product candidates, for example by underestimating the investment required to advance research and development programs, or overestimating approvability by the FDA or the market potential of acquired or in-licensed products or product candidates. In addition, our future success would depend in part on our ability to manage the rapid growth associated with some of these acquisitions and in-licenses. Any acquisition might distract resources from and otherwise harm sales of Ampyra or our other marketed products. We cannot assure you that we would be able to make the combination of our business with that of acquired businesses or companies or in-licensed products or product candidates work or be successful. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or company or in-licensed product or product candidate may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our stock, which could dilute our current shareholders' ownership interest, or securities convertible into our stock, which could dilute current shareholders' ownership interest upon conversion. Also, although we may from time to time announce that we have entered into agreements to acquire other companies or assets, we cannot assure you that these acquisitions will be completed in a timely manner or at all. These transactions are subject to an inherent risk that they may not be completed, for example because required closing conditions cannot be met at all or within specified time periods, termination rights may be exercised such as due to a breach by one of the parties, or other contingencies may arise that affect the transaction.. 52. We face an inherent risk of liability in the event that the use or misuse of our products results in personal injury or death.. If the use or misuse of Ampyra, Qutenza, or any other approved products we may sell in the future (including for example Inbrija, if it receives approval) harms people, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies, third-party payers or others. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials could also expose us to product liability claims. We currently maintain a product liability insurance policy that includes coverage for our marketed products as well as for our clinical trials. The total insurance limit is $50 million per claim, and the aggregate amount of claims under the policy is also capped at $50 million. We cannot predict all of the possible harms or side effects that may result from the use of our products or the testing of product candidates and, therefore, the amount of insurance coverage we currently have may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or defense costs we might incur. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could give rise to a substantial liability that could exceed our resources. Even if claims are not successful, the costs of defending such claims and potential adverse publicity could be harmful to our business.. Additionally, we have entered into various agreements where we indemnify third parties such as manufacturers and investigators for certain product liability claims related to our products. These indemnification obligations may require us to pay significant sums of money for claims that are covered by these indemnification obligations.. State pharmaceutical compliance and reporting requirements may expose us to regulatory and legal action by state governments or other government authorities.. Many states have enacted laws governing the licensure of companies that manufacture and/or distribute prescription drugs, although the scope of these laws varies, particularly where out-of-state distributors are concerned. We have obtained licenses in all of the jurisdictions in which we believe we are required to be licensed. However, there can be no assurance that one or more of these states will not take action under these licensure laws.. Several states have also enacted legislation regarding promotional and other activities conducted by pharmaceutical companies. The specifics of these laws vary, but in general they require companies to establish marketing compliance programs; disclose various sales and marketing expenses and pricing information; refrain from providing certain gifts or other payments to healthcare providers; and/or ensure that their sales representatives in that state are licensed. Some states, including California, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Minnesota, and Vermont, and the District of Columbia have passed laws of varying scope that ban or limit the provision of gifts, meals and certain other payments to healthcare providers and/or impose reporting and disclosure requirements upon pharmaceutical companies pertaining to drug pricing, payments and/or costs associated with pharmaceutical marketing, advertising and other promotional activities. Other states also have laws that regulate, directly or indirectly, various pharmaceutical sales and marketing activities, and new legislation is being considered in many states.. Many of the state requirements continue to evolve, and the manner in which they will be enforced going forward is uncertain. In some cases, the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. We are continually updating our compliance infrastructure and standard operating procedures to comply with such laws, but we cannot eliminate the risk created by these uncertainties. Unless we are in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action, fines and other penalties, including government orders to stop selling drugs into a state until properly licensed, and could receive adverse publicity.. Our operations could be curtailed if we are unable to obtain any necessary additional financing on favorable terms or at all.. As of December, 2017, we had approximately $307.1 million in cash and cash equivalents. We have product candidates in various stages of development, and each will require significant further investment to develop, test and obtain regulatory approval prior to commercialization. In connection with our corporate restructuring announced in 2017, we are focusing our resources on Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder) and other strategic priorities. While we believe that the cost savings from the restructuring and subsequent operating expense reductions, as well as the cost savings from the discontinuation of our tozadenant program, will enable us to fund operations through the commercial launch of Inbrija, if approved by the FDA, there can be no guarantee that we will have sufficient funding to do so. In particular, if there are delays in the approval of Inbrija or a greater than expected decline in sales of Ampyra, we may need to seek additional equity or debt financing or strategic collaborations to complete our product development activities, and could require substantial. 53. funding to commercialize any products that we successfully develop. We may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all.. To the extent that we are able to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities, the issuance of those securities would result in dilution to our stockholders. Holders of such new equity securities may also have rights, preference or privileges that are senior to yours. If additional capital is raised through the incurrence of indebtedness, we may become subject to various restrictions and covenants that could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, provide for unanticipated capital investments or take advantage of business opportunities. To the extent funding is raised through collaborations or intellectual property-based financings, we may be required to give up some or all of the rights and related intellectual property to one or more of our products, product candidates or preclinical programs. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms when and if needed, we may be required to reduce, defer or discontinue one or more of our product development programs or devote fewer resources to marketing Ampyra or our other commercial products.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our convertible senior notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. For example, we expect to experience a rapid and significant decline in Ampyra revenue following the decision of the United States District Court for the District of Delaware's decision to invalidate certain Ampyra patents, if and when generic versions of Ampyra are marketed. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of our convertible senior notes or to repurchase the notes upon a fundamental change.. Holders of our convertible senior notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, upon conversion of the notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of notes surrendered therefor or notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase the notes or to pay cash upon conversion of the notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture pursuant to which the notes were issued, or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the notes as required by the indenture, would constitute a default under the indenture.. The conditional conversion feature of our convertible senior notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In addition, if our notes are converted into common stock, you may experience significant dilution.. Our convertible senior notes are only convertible, prior to December 15, 2020, in certain limited circumstances. This conditional conversion feature may not be effective in delaying conversion of our notes. In the event that the conditional conversion feature of our convertible senior notes is triggered, holders of notes will be entitled to convert the notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their notes, we may elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock, solely cash, or a combination of cash and common stock. If we elect to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, our liquidity and financial position could be adversely affected. If we elect to settle all or a portion of our conversion obligation in common stock, our stockholders could experience significant dilution. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. 54. The loss of our key management and scientific personnel may hinder our ability to execute our business plan.. Our success depends on the continuing contributions of our management team and scientific personnel, and maintaining relationships with our scientific and medical network. We are highly dependent on the services of Dr. Ron Cohen, our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as the other principal members of our management and scientific staff. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We face intense competition in our hiring efforts with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations, and we may have to pay higher salaries to attract and retain qualified personnel. We do not maintain \"key man\" life insurance policies on the lives of our officers, directors or employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees, or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could substantially impair our ability to implement our business plan. In addition, the discontinuation of our tozadenant program, the United States District Court for the District of Delaware's decision to invalidate certain Ampyra patents and our 2017 reduction in force may impede our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel.. We and our third-party contract manufacturers must comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs or liabilities.. Our research and development activities are subject to numerous and increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those which govern laboratory procedures and the use, generation, manufacture, distribution, storage, handling, treatment, remediation and disposal of hazardous substances. Also, we operate a manufacturing facility, which is subject to further environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those laws and regulations which govern the exposure of persons to hazardous substances, the emission of pollutants into the air, the discharge of pollutants into bodies of water, and the general health, safety and welfare of employees and members of the public. We may incur substantial costs in order to comply with current or future such laws and regulations, which may also impair our research, development and/or manufacturing efforts.. In connection with our R&D and manufacturing activities, we cannot completely avoid the risk of contamination or injury, and in such cases of contamination or injury, or in cases of failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could be held liable, and in some cases strictly liable, for any resulting damages. Moreover, the existence, investigation and/or remediation of contamination at properties currently or formerly owned, leased or operated by us may result in costs, fines or other penalties. Furthermore, our third-party manufacturers are subject to the same or similar environmental, health and safety laws and regulations as those to which we are subject. It is possible that if our third-party manufacturers fail to operate in compliance with the applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or properly dispose of wastes associated with our products, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and/or experience a disruption in the manufacture and supply of our product candidates or products. Any such liability may result in substantial civil or criminal fines, penalties or other sanctions, which could exceed our assets and resources, as well as reputational harm.. We may be the subject of litigation, which, if adversely determined, could harm our business and operating results.. From time to time, we may be subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. For example, and as described more fully in \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings,\" of Part I of this report, we are engaged in responding to a class action lawsuit that was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The costs of defending any litigation, whether in cash expenses or in management time, could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows, even if we ultimately win the litigation. An unfavorable outcome on any litigation matter could require that we pay substantial damages, or, in connection with any intellectual property infringement claims, could require that we pay ongoing royalty payments or prohibit us from selling certain of our products. In addition, we may decide to settle any litigation, which could cause us to incur significant settlement costs. A settlement or an unfavorable outcome on any litigation matter could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. We depend on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business and a cyber attack or other breach of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Similar to other large companies, the size and complexity of our information technology systems makes them vulnerable to a cyber attack, malicious intrusion, breakdown, destruction, loss of data privacy, or other significant disruption. Our systems have been and are expected to continue to be the target of malware and other cyber attacks. We have invested in its systems and the protection of our data to reduce the risk of an invasion or interruption and we monitor our systems on an. 55. ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. There can be no assurance that these measures and efforts will prevent interruptions or breakdowns that could have a significant effect on our business.. Risks related to our intellectual property. If we cannot protect, maintain and, if necessary, enforce our intellectual property, our ability to develop and commercialize our products will be severely limited.. Our success will depend in part on our and our licensors' ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patent and trademark protection for the technologies, compounds and products, if any, resulting from our licenses and research and development programs. Without protection for the intellectual property we use or intend to use, other companies could offer substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizable discovery, research, development and licensing costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of products could be diminished.. We have patent portfolios relating to Ampyra/aminopyridines, Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder), CVT-427 and our ARCUS drug delivery technology, SYN120, BTT1023, cimaglermin alfa/neuregulins, remyelinating antibodies/antibodies relating to nervous system disorders, Qutenza and NP-1998/topical capsaicin formulations, comprised of both our own and in-licensed patents and patent applications. For some of our proprietary technologies, for example our ARCUS drug delivery technology, we rely on a combination of patents, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. Our intellectual property also includes copyrights and a portfolio of trademarks.. The process of obtaining patents and trademarks can be time consuming and expensive with no certainty of success. Even if we spend the necessary time and money, a patent or trademark may not issue, it may not issue in a timely manner, or it may not have sufficient scope or strength to protect the technology it was intended to protect or to provide us with any commercial advantage. We may never be certain that we were the first to develop the technology or that we were the first to file a patent application for the particular technology because patent applications are confidential until they are published, and publications in the scientific or patent literature lag behind actual discoveries. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights will remain uncertain if our pending patent applications are not allowed or issued for any reason or if we are unable to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. Furthermore, third parties may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate some or all of our technologies, design around our patented technologies or challenge our issued patents or trademarks or the patents or trademarks of our licensors.. For example, in 2014 and 2015, ten generic drug manufacturers filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, for generic versions of Ampyra with the FDA. Since 2015, we reached settlement agreements with seven of the generic companies. In filing these ANDAs for Ampyra, the generic drug manufacturers challenged all of the Orange Book-listed patents that protect the Ampyra franchise. As such, to protect our intellectual property rights we filed lawsuits against the ANDA filers, which were consolidated into a single case, asserting the challenged Orange Book-listed patents against these generic drug manufacturers. A bench trial against four generic companies was conducted in September 2016 (we have since reached a settlement agreement with one of those four companies). In March 2017, the United States District Court for the District of Delaware rendered a decision in the lawsuit upholding our Orange Book-listed patent for Ampyra set to expire on July 30, 2018, but invalidated our four other Orange Book-listed patents set to expire between 2025 and 2027. We appealed the ruling on these four patents, and we expect the appeals process to take approximately 12 to 18 months from the filing of the appeal in May 2017. If we are not successful in overturning the ruling, which could include reversal or a remand by the appeals court back to the District Court, then Ampyra will not have patent protection after July 30, 2018. If the appeals court does not overturn the District Court's decision by July 30, 2018, multiple ANDA filers may be able to launch generic versions of Ampyra absent injunctive relief. Also, the defendant ANDA filers appealed the District Court's decision upholding the patent set to expire in July 2018. In April 2017, we received a Paragraph IV Certification Notice from an additional drug manufacturer, advising that it had submitted an ANDA to the FDA seeking marketing approval for a generic version of Ampyra (dalfampridine) Extended Release Tablets, 10mg. In response to the filing of the ANDA, in May 2017, we filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey, asserting infringement of our U.S. Patent Nos. 8,007,826, 8,354,437, 8,440,703, and 8,663,685. In January 2018, we reached a settlement agreement with the additional drug manufacturer.. Also, the validity of our patents can be challenged by third parties pursuant to procedures introduced by American Invents Act, specifically inter partes review and/or post grant review before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. For example, in February 2015, a hedge fund (acting with affiliated entities and individuals and proceeding under the name of the Coalition for Affordable Drugs) filed two separate inter partes review (IPR) petitions with the U.S. Patent and Trademark. 56. Office, challenging two of the five Ampyra Orange Book-listed patents. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Patent Trials and Appeals Board, or PTAB, chose not to institute inter partes review of these patents. The hedge fund filed motions for reconsideration requesting that the denial to institute these two IPRs be reversed, but the motions were denied in April 2016. In addition, in September 2015 the same hedge fund filed four additional IPR petitions challenging four of the five Orange Book-listed patents, including two of the same patents that were the subject of the February 2015 IPR petitions. We opposed the requests to institute these IPRs, but in March 2016 the PTAB decided to institute the IPR proceedings on all four patents. In March 2017 the PTAB issued a ruling and upheld all four of the challenged patents. The ruling has become final, as the hedge fund did not appeal the ruling before the May 2017 appeal deadline. However, the PTAB decision does not prevent parties from filing additional IPR petitions challenging our patents. Also, the PTAB's decision does not affect the District Court's decision invalidating the four patents in the ANDA litigation described above.. Patent litigation, IPR proceedings, and other legal proceedings involve complex legal and factual questions. We need to devote significant resources to the existing ANDA and IPR legal proceedings, and we may need to devote significant resources to other legal proceedings that arise in the future. If we are not successful, we could lose some or all of our Orange Book listed patents and our business could be materially harmed. We can provide no assurance concerning the duration or the outcome of any such lawsuits and legal proceedings.. We may initiate actions to protect our intellectual property (including, for example, in connection with the filing of an ANDA as described above) and in any litigation in which our intellectual property or our licensors' intellectual property is asserted, a court may determine that the intellectual property is invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity or enforceability of that intellectual property is upheld by a court, a court may not prevent alleged infringement on the grounds that such activity is not covered by, for example, the patent claims. In addition, effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries for a variety of legal and public policy reasons. From time to time we may receive notices from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Any litigation, whether to enforce our rights to use our or our licensors' patents or to defend against allegations that we infringe third party rights, would be costly, time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks.. As is commonplace in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent our employees are involved in areas that are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees and/or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims, which could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and which could have an adverse effect on us, even if we are successful in defending such claims.. We also rely in our business on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators, advisors and others. Nonetheless, those agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants, collaborators, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, joint ownership may result, which could undermine the value of the intellectual property to us or disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information which may not be resolved in our favor. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could harm us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. Policing unauthorized use of our or our licensors' intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure.. Our business could be harmed by requirements to publicly disclose our clinical trial data.. There is an increasing trend across multiple jurisdictions, including the United States and the EU, towards requiring greater transparency, particularly in the area of clinical trial results. In many jurisdictions, including the U.S. and the EU, we are required to register most of our clinical trials as well as disclose summaries of the results of those clinical trials. Further requirements for transparency could result in the disclosure of data down to the individual patient level. In the EU, for example, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, has since 2015 implemented a  policy on transparency of clinical trial data submitted to the agency in applications for marketing authorization. These data traditionally were regarded as confidential commercial information not subject to disclosure. According to this policy, the EMA proactively publishes. 57. anonymized clinical data submitted by pharmaceutical companies to support their regulatory applications submitted after January 1, 2015 (subject to certain company redactions agreed with the EMA during the application review process). Possible redactions include commercially confidential information, identifiable information about study participants and study staff and patient level data (i.e., line listings including patient data against individual patient codes). The EMA plans to release patient level data in the future, but needs to address some data privacy concerns before doing so. The EMA may release clinical data submitted before this date on request, subject to the company having the opportunity to make similar redactions. The precise implementation of the EMA's policy remains in flux and subject to legal challenge. This could harm our business in a variety of ways, including for example through disclosure of our trade secret methodologies for clinical development of our products, and/or by potentially enabling competitors to use our clinical data to gain approvals for their own products in the same or other jurisdictions. Regardless of the precise details of the EMA's policy, the trend across governments is for increased transparency, which could diminish our ability to protect our confidential commercial information.. If third parties successfully claim that we infringe their patents or proprietary rights, our ability to continue to develop and successfully commercialize our product candidates could be delayed or prevented.. Third parties may claim that we or our licensors or suppliers are infringing their patents or are misappropriating their proprietary information. In the event of a successful claim against us or our licensors or suppliers for infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of others relating to any of our marketed products or product candidates, we may be required to:. •  pay substantial damages;. •  stop using our technologies;. •  withdraw a product from the market;. •  stop certain research and development efforts;. •  significantly delay product commercialization activities;. •  develop non-infringing products or methods, which may not be feasible; and. •  obtain one or more licenses from third parties.. In addition, from time to time, we may become aware of third parties who have, or claim to have, intellectual property rights covering matters such as methods for doing business, conducting research, diagnosing diseases or prescribing medications that are alleged to be broadly applicable across sectors of the industry, and we may receive assertions that these rights apply to us. The existence of such intellectual property rights could present a risk to our business.. A license required under any patents or proprietary rights held by a third party may not be available to us, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we or our licensors or suppliers are sued for infringement we could encounter substantial delays in, or be prohibited from developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates and advancing our preclinical or clinical programs. In addition, any such litigation would be costly, time consuming, and might distract management from other important tasks.. We are dependent on our license agreements and if we fail to meet our obligations under these license agreements, or our agreements are terminated for any reason, we may lose our rights to our in-licensed patents and technologies.. We are dependent on licenses for intellectual property related to Ampyra, Qutenza, and all of our research and development programs such as our Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder) and SYN120 development programs. Our failure to meet any of our obligations under these license agreements could result in the loss of our rights to this intellectual property. If we lose our rights under any of these license agreements, we may be unable to commercialize, or continue commercializing, a product that uses licensed intellectual property.. We could lose our rights to dalfampridine under our license agreement with Alkermes in countries in which we have a license, if we fail to file for regulatory approvals within a commercially reasonable time after completion and receipt of positive data from all preclinical and clinical studies required for the NDA-equivalent. We could also lose our rights under our license agreement with Alkermes in markets outside the U.S. if we fail to launch a product within 180 days of NDA-equivalent approvals and receipt of other needed regulatory approvals in those countries. Alkermes could also terminate our license agreement if we fail to make payments due under the license agreement. If we lose our rights to dalfampridine, our. 58. prospects for generating revenue would be materially harmed as we currently derive substantially all of our revenue from Ampyra.. Risks relating to our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile and you may lose all or a part of your investment.. Our stock price could fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including:. •  achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by us or our collaborators or by our competitors;. •  publicity regarding actual or potential clinical trial results or updates relating to products under development by us, our collaborators, or our competitors;. •  developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; including litigation and other legal proceedings;. •  announcements of new acquisitions, collaborations,  financings or other transactions, or of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or by us; regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries;. •  changes in securities analysts' estimates of our performance or our failure to meet analysts' expectations;. •  sales of substantial amounts of our stock or short selling activity by certain investors;. •  variations in our anticipated or actual operating results;. •  conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries;. •  changes in healthcare reimbursement policies; and. •  economic or other crises or other external factors.. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. If our revenues in any particular period do not meet expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures in that period, which could cause our operating results to suffer. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may fall by a significant amount.. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market and the market for biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have recently and can in the future experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.. Future sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline.. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market by our executive officers, directors, 5% or greater stockholders or other stockholders, or the prospect of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of February 20, 2018, we had outstanding 46,913,767 shares of voting common stock. Also, options to acquire 8,813,598 shares of common stock were outstanding as of February 20, 2018, exercisable at an average exercise price of $29.53 per share, issued under our 2006 Employee Incentive Plan, our 2015 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, or our 2016 Inducement Plan. Additional shares of common stock are authorized for issuance pursuant to options and other stock-based awards under our 2015 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and additional stock-based awards could be issued under our 2016 Inducement Plan. To the extent that option holders exercise outstanding options, there may be further dilution and the sales of shares issued upon such exercises could cause our stock price to drop further.. 59. If our officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control the outcome of stockholder vote.. As of December 31, 2017, our officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 81% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval or mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders.. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our shareholder rights plan may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable or may prevent efforts by our stockholders to change our directors or our management, which could decrease the value of your shares.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, and may have the effect of preventing or hindering any attempt by our stockholders to replace our current directors or officers. These provisions include:. •  Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors.. •  Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock with rights, preferences and privileges determined by the board of directors. The ability to authorize and issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with super voting, special approval, dividend or other rights or preferences on a discriminatory basis that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.. •  Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each with staggered three-year terms. As a result, only one class of directors will be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders, and each of the two other classes of directors will continue to serve for the remainder of their respective three-year terms, limiting the ability of stockholders to reconstitute the board of directors.. •  The vote of the holders of 75% of the outstanding shares of our common stock is required in order to take certain actions, including amendment of our bylaws, removal of directors for cause and certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation.. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan, which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our stockholders will be entitled to purchase from us shares of junior preferred stock. The rights plan will expire on August 31, 2018. The preferred stock purchase rights are triggered ten business days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or has obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. The rights plan exempts any person or group owning 15% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock when we announced the rights plan, however the exemption does not apply to additional shares acquired after the announcement. The preferred stock purchase rights would cause dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire the Company on terms that are not approved by our board of directors. While we believe our rights plan enables our board of directors to help ensure that our stockholders are not deprived of the opportunity to realize the full and fair value of their investments, the rights plan may inhibit a change in control of the Company by a third party in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. If a change in control is inhibited or delayed in this manner, it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holders has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could have the effect of reducing your ability to receive a premium on your common stock.. 60. Because we do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.. We have not paid cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The success of your investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your shares."
