[1] "Item  1A.    Risk Factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occurs, then our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely impact our business.. Deterioration of or instability in the global economy and overall challenging end market conditions could impact our ability to grow the business and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our businesses and operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by worldwide economic conditions. The level of demand for our products depends, in part, on the general economic conditions that exist in our served end markets. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from customers in cyclical industries (vehicles, industrial, oil & gas, agriculture and mining) that typically are adversely affected by downward economic cycles. As global economic uncertainty continues, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, which may delay or lengthen sales cycles. While we have begun to see indications of improvement within the broad industrial landscape, we have experienced challenging and inconsistent demand in oil & gas, mining, infrastructure, commercial and off-highway vehicles and agriculture markets. As a result of these and other factors, we continue to implement various restructuring initiatives aimed at reducing our cost structure and improving operational performance. We expect to incur restructuring costs in the near term, including facility consolidations, workforce reductions and structural realignment in order to reduce costs in our business. Although we expect that the related cost savings and realization of efficiencies will offset the restructuring related costs over time, we may not achieve the desired net benefits (see Note 3, \"Restructuring Charges\" and \"Business Update\" within Item 7 for further discussion of our restructuring activities and future anticipated cost savings).. Our business is dependent upon the level of activity in the energy sector, particularly the oil and gas industry.  The level of activity in the energy sector is influenced by supply and demand, country-specific energy policies, regional reliance on fossil fuels and the availability, affordability and market support of alternative energy sources.. Energy markets historically have experienced significant volatility. We primarily serve these markets through our Energy and Industrial segments. Energy sector activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the United States, North Sea, the Middle East, Brazil and Australia, amongst other regions. Demand for our products and services depends on a number of factors, including the number of offshore oil & gas wells being drilled, the maintenance and condition of industry assets, the volume of exploration and production activities and the capital expenditures of asset owners and. 6. maintenance companies. The willingness of asset owners and operators to make capital expenditures to produce and explore for sources of energy and to conduct maintenance activities will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:. • the current and anticipated future prices for energy sources, including oil and natural gas, solar, wind and nuclear;. • level of excess production capacity;. • cost of exploring for and producing energy sources;. • worldwide economic activity and associated demand for energy sources;. • availability and access to potential hydrocarbon resources;. • national government political requirements;. • development of alternate energy sources;. • environmental regulations; and. • evolving customer behaviors related to project scope, scale and timing.. Our growth strategy includes strategic acquisitions. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or successfully integrate them.. A significant portion of our growth has come from strategic acquisitions of businesses. We plan to continue making acquisitions to enhance our global market position and broaden our product offerings. Our ability to successfully execute acquisitions will be impacted by a number of factors, including the availability of financing on terms acceptable to us, our ability to identify acquisition candidates that meet our valuation parameters and increased competition for acquisitions. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require additional financial resources and attention from management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Although we expect to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, we may not achieve the desired net benefit in the time-frame planned. Failure to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or successfully integrate the acquired businesses could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from acquired companies.. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from acquired companies. Achieving those benefits depends on the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including integrating the acquired business into the Company. Factors that could affect our ability to achieve these benefits include:. • difficulties in integrating and managing personnel, financial reporting and other systems used by the acquired businesses;. • the failure of acquired businesses to perform in accordance with our expectations;. • failure to achieve anticipated synergies between our business units and the business units of acquired businesses;. • the loss of customers of acquired businesses; or. • the loss of key managers of acquired businesses.. If acquired businesses do not operate as we anticipate, it could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, acquired businesses may operate in niche markets in which we have little or no experience. In such instances, we will be highly dependent on existing managers and employees to manage those businesses, and the loss of any key managers or employees of the acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities.. Certain of the acquisition agreements from past and current acquisitions require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of each of their companies before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited in amount and duration and certain former owners may not be able to meet their indemnification responsibilities. These indemnification provisions may not fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position.. 7. Our goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial amount of our total assets.. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill. At August 31, 2017, goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $751 million, or 49% of our total assets. The goodwill results from acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net tangible and other identifiable intangible assets we have acquired. We assess annually whether there has been impairment in the value of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our reporting units were to fall below current levels, we could be required to recognize a non-cash charge to operating earnings to impair the related goodwill or other intangible assets. We recognized $187 million and $84 million in non-cash impairment charges in fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively, related to the goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets of several of our businesses (see Note 6, \"Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets\" and \"Critical Accounting Policies\" for further discussion on goodwill, intangible asset and long-lived asset impairments). Any future goodwill or intangible asset impairments could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Divestitures and discontinued operations could negatively impact our business, and retained liabilities from businesses that we sell could adversely affect our financial results.. As part of our portfolio management process, we review our operations for businesses which may no longer be aligned with our strategic initiatives and long-term objectives. Over the past three years, we divested a product line and have signed a definite agreement to sell our Viking business. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business, including required separation or carve-out activities and costs, disputes with buyers or potential impairment charges. We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had previously anticipated. During fiscal 2017, we recognized $117 million in impairment and other divestiture charges related to the announced definite agreement to sell our Viking business, which is expected to close in the first half of fiscal 2018, pending regulatory and governmental approvals (see Note 5, \"Divestiture Activities\" for further discussion on divestiture activities and related charges). After reaching an agreement with a buyer for the disposition of a business, we are also subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing a transaction.  Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement, as we may be required to retain responsibility for, or agree to indemnify buyers against contingent liabilities related to a businesses sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, lease payments, product liability claims or environmental matters.  Under these types of arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect future financial results.. If we fail to develop new products or customers do not accept our new products, our business could be adversely affected.. Our ability to develop innovative new products can affect our competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development, production or commercialization of new products or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may reduce future sales and adversely affect our competitive position. Operational excellence processes including effective product sourcing, lean manufacturing, acquisition integration and leadership development, along with other continuous improvement activities, are utilized to improve our businesses. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments, that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain competitive advantages or that we can recover major research and development expenses. If we fail to make innovations, if we launch products with quality problems, or if the market does not accept our new products, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected.. Our indebtedness could harm our operating flexibility and competitive position.. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, significant indebtedness in connection with acquisitions and share repurchases. We have, and will continue to have, a substantial amount of debt which requires interest and principal payments. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage.. Our ability to make scheduled principal and interest payments, refinance our indebtedness and satisfy our other debt and lease obligations will depend upon our future operating performance and credit market conditions, which could be adversely affected by factors beyond our control. In addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financings will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.. 8. Our failure to comply with the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements would adversely affect us.. Our senior credit agreement and our other debt agreement contain financial and other restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our financial and operating flexibility as well as our ability to plan for and react to market conditions and to meet our capital needs. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in events of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay indebtedness before its due date and we may not have the financial resources or be able to arrange alternative financing to do so. Borrowings under our senior credit facility are secured by most domestic personal property assets and are guaranteed by most of our domestic subsidiaries and by a pledge of the stock of most of our domestic and certain foreign subsidiaries. If borrowings under our senior credit facility were declared or became due and payable immediately as the result of an event of default and we were unable to repay or refinance those borrowings, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets and stock. Any event that requires us to repay any of our debt before it is due could require us to borrow additional amounts at unfavorable borrowing terms, cause a significant reduction in our liquidity and impair our ability to pay amounts due on our indebtedness. Moreover, if we are required to repay any of our debt before it becomes due, we may be unable to borrow additional amounts or otherwise obtain the cash necessary to repay that debt, when due, which could seriously harm our business.. Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be forced to cut prices or incur additional costs.. Our businesses generally face substantial competition, domestically and internationally, in each of their respective markets. We may lose market share in certain businesses or be forced to reduce prices or incur increased costs to maintain existing business. We compete globally on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. The entry of a large company into one of our markets, or its acquisition of an existing competitor, could adversely impact our competitiveness due to greater financial or other resources. Present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, some of our competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower margins in order to compete with us.. Our international operations pose currency and other risks.. We continue to focus on penetrating global markets as part of our overall growth strategy and expect sales from and into foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. Approximately 56% of our sales in fiscal 2017     were outside the United States. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations and suppliers are located outside the United States. Our international operations present special risks, primarily from currency exchange rate fluctuations, exposure to local economic and political conditions, export and import restrictions, controls on repatriation of cash and exposure to local political conditions. In particular, changes in foreign currency exchange rates will continue to add volatility as over one-half of our sales are generated outside of the United States in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, there have been several proposals to reform international taxation rules in the United States. We earn a substantial portion of our income from international operations and therefore changes to United States international tax rules may have a material adverse effect on future results of operations or liquidity. To the extent that we expand our international presence, these risks may increase.. Geopolitical unrest and terrorist activities may cause the economic conditions in the U.S. or abroad to deteriorate, which could harm our business.. Terrorist attacks against targets in the U.S. or abroad, rumors or threats of war, other geopolitical activity or trade disruptions may impact our operations or cause general economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad to deteriorate. A prolonged economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or in other areas of the world could reduce the demand for our products and, therefore, negatively affect our future sales. Any of these events could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The assembly nature of our operations means that we purchase a significant amount of components from suppliers for the manufacture, assembly and sale of our products and our reliance on suppliers involves certain risks.. We rely on suppliers to secure component products and finished goods required for the manufacture and assembly of our products. A disruption in deliveries to or from suppliers or decreased availability of components or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs.  Further, poor supplier quality or an insecure supply chain could adversely affect the reliability, performance and reputation of our products.   Additionally, if demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience excess inventories and be forced to incur additional charges and our profitability may suffer. Our business, competitive position, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively impacted if supply is insufficient for our operations, if we experience excess inventories or if we are unable to adjust our production schedules or our purchases from suppliers to reflect changes in customer demand and market fluctuations on a timely basis.. 9. A material disruption at a significant manufacturing facility could adversely affect our ability to generate sales and meet customer demand.. Our financial performance could be adversely affected as a result of our inability to meet customer demand for our products in the event of a material disruption at one of our significant manufacturing facilities. Equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes or other influences could create a material disruption situation. Interruptions to production could increase our cost of sales, harm our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain our customers. Our business continuity plans may not be sufficient to address disruptions attributable to all magnitudes of natural disaster risks at our geographically disparate facilities. Any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Large or rapid increases in the costs of commodities and raw materials or substantial decreases in their availability could adversely affect our operations.. The primary raw materials that are used in our products include steel, plastic resin, brass, steel wire and rubber. Most of our suppliers are not currently parties to long-term contracts with us. Consequently, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in prices of such raw materials. Factors such as supply and demand, freight costs and transportation availability, inventory levels, the level of imports and general economic conditions may affect the prices of raw materials that we need. If we experience a significant increase in raw material prices, or if we are unable to pass along increases in raw material prices to our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, an increasing portion of our products are sourced from low cost regions. Changes in export laws, taxes and disruptions in transportation routes could adversely impact our results of operations.. Regulatory and legal developments including changes to United States taxation rules, health care reform, conflict mineral supply chain compliance, governmental climate change initiatives and failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could negatively affect our financial performance.. Our operations and the markets in which we compete are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations. Existing laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations, including with respect to taxation, health care reform, conflict minerals compliance and governmental climate change initiatives, may be adopted or become applicable to us or our customers. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time. We cannot predict the form any such new laws or regulations will take or the impact any of these laws and regulations will have on our business or operations. Any significant change in any of these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our cost of producing these products.. Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and commercial customers, and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. Environmental laws and regulations may result in additional costs.. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing public and worker health and safety. Violations of these laws could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results. Pursuant to such laws, governmental authorities have required us to contribute to the cost of investigating or remediating certain matters at current or previously owned and operated sites. In addition, we provided environmental indemnities in connection with the sale of certain businesses and product lines. Liability as an owner or operator, or as an arranger for the treatment or disposal of hazardous substances, can be joint and several and can be imposed without regard to fault. There is a risk that costs relating to these matters could be greater than what we currently expect or exceed our insurance coverage, or that additional remediation and compliance obligations could arise which require us to make material expenditures. In particular, more stringent environmental laws, unanticipated remediation requirements or the discovery of previously unknown conditions could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. We are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses, and our business operations could be restricted if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require.. 10. Any loss of key personnel and the inability to attract and retain qualified employees could have a material adverse impact on our operations.. We are dependent on the continued services of key executives such as our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other executives in charge of our segments. We currently do not have employment agreements with most of these or other officers. The departure of key personnel without timely replacement could severely disrupt our business operations. As recently announced, we have experienced planned and unplanned turnover within our executive team. If we experience significant delays in replacing these positions, we may find our operations to be adversely affected.  Competition for highly trained personnel is intense and our competitors and others can be expected to attempt to hire our skilled employees from time to time. Additionally, we need qualified managers and skilled employees with technical and manufacturing industry experience to operate our businesses successfully. From time to time there may be shortages of skilled labor which may make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals or our costs to do so increase significantly, our operations would be materially adversely affected.. Our operations are highly dependent on information technology infrastructure and failures or security breaches of our networks could significantly affect our business.. We depend heavily on our information technology (IT) systems and infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. Government agencies and security experts have warned about growing risks from third parties such as: hackers, cyber-criminals, malicious insiders and other actors targeting confidential information and all types of IT systems. These third parties may engage in fraudulent activities, theft of confidential or proprietary information and sabotage. If we experience any of these third party activities, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes.  Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. Any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. While we attempt to mitigate these risks through controls, due diligence, training, surveillance and other measures, we remain vulnerable to information security threats.. We are subject to litigation, including product liability and warranty claims that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are, from time to time, a party to litigation that arises in the normal course of our business operations, including product warranty and liability claims, contract disputes and environmental, asbestos, employment and other litigation matters. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other damage. While we currently maintain general liability and product liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are adequate, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms and the insurance may not provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities that may arise. Any claims brought against us, with or without merit, may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations as a result of potential adverse outcomes, the expenses associated with defending such claims, the diversion of our management's resources and time and the potential adverse effect to our business reputation.. If our intellectual property protection is inadequate, others may be able to use our technologies and tradenames and thereby reduce our ability to compete, which could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and results of operations.. We regard much of the technology underlying our services and products and the trademarks under which we market our products as proprietary. The steps we take to protect our proprietary technology may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation, or third parties may independently develop similar technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements and other contracts to establish and protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. These agreements may be breached or terminated, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and existing trade secrets, patent and copyright law may afford us limited protection. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. A third party could copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization. Litigation may be necessary for us to defend against claims of infringement or to protect our intellectual property rights and could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. Further, we might not prevail in such litigation which could harm our business.. We or our products could infringe on the intellectual property of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products.. 11. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their patents or other intellectual property claims, and we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe the intellectual property of others. We may have to obtain a license to sell our products if it is determined that our products infringe upon another party's intellectual property. We might be prohibited from selling our products before we obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending these types of lawsuits takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns."
