[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and the Company could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  You should carefully consider the risks described below and in our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC.  The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our future growth is dependent upon our ability to keep pace with rapid technological and industry changes in order to develop or acquire new technologies for our products and service introductions that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins.. Our business operates in markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, potential new entrants, and changes in customer needs and expectations.  For example, a number of cable and other telecommunications companies and large technology companies with home automation solutions offer interactive security services that are competitive with our products and services.  If these services gain greater market acceptance and traction, our ability to grow our business, in particular our interactive service offerings, could be materially and adversely affected.  Accordingly, our future success depends in part on our ability to accomplish the following: identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets; develop, acquire, and maintain competitive products and services that capitalize on existing and emerging trends; enhance our existing products and services by adding innovative features on a timely and cost-effective basis that differentiates us from our competitors; sufficiently capture intellectual property rights in new inventions and other innovations; and develop or acquire and bring products and services, including enhancements, to market quickly and cost-effectively.  Our ability to develop or acquire new products and services that are technologically innovative requires the investment of significant resources and can affect our competitive position.  These acquisition and development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new commercially successful technologies, products, or services on a timely basis.  Moreover, as we introduce new products and services, we may be unable to detect and correct defects in the product or in its installation, which could result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance.  New or enhanced products and services may not satisfy customer preferences and potential product failures may cause customers to reject our products.  As a result, these products and services may not achieve market acceptance and our brand image could suffer.  In addition, our competitors may introduce superior products or business strategies, impairing our brand and the desirability of our products and services, which may cause customers to defer or forego purchases of our products and services, and impacting our ability to charge monthly service fees.  If our competitors implement new technologies before we are able to implement them, those competitors may be able to provide more effective products than ours, possibly at lower prices.  Any delay or failure in the introduction of new or enhanced solutions could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, the markets for our products and services may not develop or grow as we anticipate.  The failure of our technology, products, or services to gain market acceptance, the potential for product defects, or the obsolescence of our products and services could significantly reduce our revenue, increase our operating costs, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition to developing and acquiring new technologies and introducing new offerings, we may need, from time to time, to phase out outdated and unsuitable technologies and services.  See \" - Shifts in our customers' choice of, or telecommunications providers' support for, telecommunications services and equipment could materially adversely affect our business and require significant capital expenditures.\"  If we are unable to do so on a cost-effective basis, we could experience reduced profits.. We sell our products and services in highly competitive markets, including the home automation market, which may result in pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products and services.. The monitored security industry is highly fragmented and subject to significant competition and pricing pressures.  We experience significant competitive pricing pressures on installation, monitoring, and service fees.  Several competitors offer installation fees that match or are lower than ours.  Other competitors charge significantly more for installation, but in many cases, less for monitoring.  In addition, cable and telecommunications companies have expanded into the monitored security industry and are bundling their existing offerings with monitored security services.. In many cases, we face competition for direct sales from our independent, third-party authorized dealers, who may offer installation for considerably less than we do in particular markets.  We believe that the monitoring and service fees we offer are generally competitive with rates offered by other security service providers.  We face competition from other providers such as cable and telecommunications companies that may have existing access to and relationship with subscribers and highly recognized brands, which may drive increased awareness of their security/automation offerings relative to ours, have access to greater capital. 9. and resources than us, and may spend significantly more on advertising, marketing, and promotional resources, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to drive awareness and demand for our products and services.  In particular, these companies may be able to offer subscribers a lower price by bundling their services.  We also face potential competition from DIY products, which enable customers to self-monitor and control their environments without third-party involvement through the Internet, text messages, emails, or similar communications, but with the disadvantage that alarm events may go unnoticed.  Some DIY providers may also offer professional monitoring with the purchase of their systems and equipment without a contractual commitment, which may be attractive to some customers and put us at a competitive disadvantage.  Other DIY providers may offer new IoT devices and services with automated features and capabilities that may be appealing to customers.  Shifts in customer preferences toward DIY systems could increase our attrition rates over time and the risk of accelerated amortization of customer contracts resulting from a declining customer base.  It is possible that one or more of our competitors could develop a significant technological advantage over us that allows them to provide additional service or better-quality service or to lower their price, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.  Continued pricing pressure, improvements in technology, and shifts in customer preferences toward self-monitoring or DIY could adversely impact our customer base and/or pricing structure and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We rely on a significant number of our customers remaining with us as customers for long periods of time.. We operate our business with the goal of retaining customers for long periods of time to recoup our initial investment in new customers, and we generally recoup our initial investment in less than three years.  Accordingly, our long-term profitability is dependent on long customer tenure.  This requires that we minimize our rate of customer disconnects, or attrition.  One reason for disconnects is when customers relocate and do not reconnect.  Customer relocations are impacted by changes in the housing market.  See \" - General economic conditions can affect our business, and we are susceptible to changes in the business economy, housing market, and business and consumer discretionary income, which may inhibit our ability to sustain customer base growth rates and impact our results of operations.\"  Other factors that can increase disconnects include problems experienced with our product or service quality, customer service, customer non-pay, unfavorable general economic conditions, and the preference for lower pricing of competitors' products and services over ours.  If we fail to keep our customers for a sufficiently long period of time, our profitability, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. If we experience significantly higher rates of customer revenue attrition than we anticipate, we may be required to change the estimated useful lives and/or the accelerated the method of depreciation and amortization related to accounts associated with our security monitoring customers, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense or causing asset impairment.. We amortize the costs of our acquired and dealer-generated contracts and related customer relationships based on the estimated life of the customer relationships.  We similarly depreciate the cost of our direct channel subscriber system assets and deferred subscriber acquisition costs.  If attrition rates rise significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses related to such contracts and the depreciation/amortization of our subscriber system assets/deferred subscriber acquisition costs or to impair such assets, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our reputation as a service provider of high quality security offerings may be materially adversely affected by product defects or shortfalls in customer service.. Our business depends on our reputation and ability to maintain good relationships with our subscribers, dealers and local regulators, among others.  Our reputation may be harmed either through product defects, such as the failure of one or more of our subscribers' alarm systems, or shortfalls in customer service.  Subscribers generally judge our performance through their interactions with the staff at the monitoring and customer care centers, dealers, and technicians who perform on-site maintenance services.  Any failure to meet subscribers' expectations in such customer service areas could cause an increase in attrition rates or make it difficult to recruit new subscribers.  Any harm to our reputation or subscriber relationships caused by the actions of our dealers, personnel, or third-party service providers or any other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 10. General economic conditions can affect our business, and we are susceptible to changes in the business economy, housing market, and business and consumer discretionary income, which may inhibit our ability to sustain customer base growth rates and impact our results of operations.. Demand for alarm monitoring services and home automation systems is affected by the general economy, the business environment, and the turnover in the housing market, among other things.  Downturns in the rate of the sale of new and existing homes, which we believe drives a substantial portion of our new customer volume in any given year, would reduce opportunities to make sales of new security and home automation systems and services and reduce opportunities to take over existing security and home automation systems.  Recoveries in the housing market increase the occurrence of relocations, which may lead to customers disconnecting service and not contracting with us in their new homes.. Further, the alarm monitoring business is dependent, in part, on national, regional, and local economic conditions.  In particular, where disposable income available for discretionary spending is reduced (such as by higher housing, energy, interest or other costs, or where the actual or perceived wealth of customers has decreased as a result of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, inflation, increased tax rates or other economic disruptions), the alarm monitoring business could experience increased attrition rates and reduced customer demand.  No assurance can be given that we will be able to continue acquiring quality alarm monitoring contracts or that we will not experience higher attrition rates.  Changes in individualized economic circumstances could cause current security alarm and home automation customers to disconnect our services to reduce their monthly spending, or such customers could default on their remaining contractual obligations to us.  Our long-term revenue growth rate depends on installations and new contracts exceeding disconnects.  If customer disconnects and defaults increase, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.  See \" - We rely on a significant number of our customers remaining with us as customers for long periods of time.\". We are subject to credit risk and other risks associated with our subscribers.. A substantial part of our revenues is derived from the recurring monthly revenue due from subscribers under the alarm monitoring contracts.  Therefore, we are dependent on the ability and willingness of subscribers to pay amounts due under the alarm monitoring contracts on a monthly basis in a timely manner.  Although subscribers are contractually obligated to pay amounts due under an alarm monitoring contract, and are generally contractually obligated to pay early cancellation fees if they prematurely cancel the alarm monitoring contract during the initial term of the alarm monitoring contract (typically between three and five years), subscribers' payment obligations are unsecured, which could impair our ability to collect any unpaid amounts from our subscribers.  To the extent payment defaults by subscribers under the alarm monitoring contracts are greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  We are also exploring different pricing plans for our products and services, including larger up-front payments and consumer financing options for residential equipment purchases.  We currently have arrangements with a third-party financing company to provide financing to small business and commercial customers who wish to finance their equipment purchases from us.  We also recently launched a pilot program in a small number of markets for residential customers to pay for equipment purchases through installments to our Company under a consumer financing arrangement.  These lending services could increase the credit risks associated with our subscribers.  While we intend to manage such credit risk by monitoring the credit quality of our financing portfolios, our efforts to mitigate risk may not be sufficient to prevent an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the insurance industry changes its practice of providing incentives to homeowners for the use of alarm monitoring services, we may experience a reduction in new customer growth or an increase in our subscriber attrition rate.. It has been common practice in the insurance industry to provide a reduction in rates for policies written on homes that have monitored alarm systems.  There can be no assurance that insurance companies will continue to offer these rate reductions.  If these incentives were reduced or eliminated, new homeowners who otherwise might not feel the need for alarm monitoring services would be removed from our potential customer pool, which could hinder the growth of our business, and existing subscribers may choose to disconnect or not renew their service contracts, which could increase our attrition rates. In either case, our results of operations and growth prospects could be materially adversely affected.. We have and will continue to invest in new businesses, services, and technologies outside the traditional security and interactive services market, which is inherently risky and could disrupt our current operations.. We have invested and will continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies beyond traditional security and interactive services.  Our investments may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including capital loss on some or all of our investments, insufficient revenues from such investments to offset any new liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments, distraction of management from current operations, and issues not identified during pre-investment planning and due diligence that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such investments and incur unanticipated liabilities.  Since these investments are inherently risky, these new businesses, products, services, and technologies may not be successful and as a result, may materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and results of operations.. 11. Failure to successfully upgrade and maintain the security of our information and technology networks, including personally identifiable information and other data, could materially adversely affect us.. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including Internet and Internet-based or \"cloud\" computing services, to collect, process, transmit, and store electronic information.  We are currently implementing modifications and upgrades to these information technology systems, including making changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality, and implementing new systems.  There are inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems and implementing new systems, including potential disruption of our sales, operations and customer service functions, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems.  In addition, our information technology system implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all.  The implementation of new information technology systems may also cause disruptions in our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, and results of operations.. If we fail to comply with constantly evolving laws, regulations, and industry standards addressing information and technology networks, privacy and data security, we could face substantial penalties, liability, and reputational harm, and our business, operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Along with our own confidential data and information in the normal course of our business, we or our partners collect and retain significant volumes of certain types of data, some of which are subject to certain laws and regulations.  Our ability to analyze this data to present the subscriber with an improved user experience is a valuable component of our services, but we cannot assure you that the data we require will be available from these sources in the future or that the cost of such data will not increase.  If the data that we require is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may not be able to provide certain parts of our current or planned products and services, and our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. For example, the data that we collect and retain includes personally identifiable information related to our consumers and employees and may be protected health information subject to certain requirements under the Health Insurance Portability Accountability Act (\"HIPAA\") and its implementing regulations, which regulate the use, storage, and disclosure of personally identifiable health information.  We may change our processes or modify our product and service offerings in a manner that requires us to adopt additional or different policies and procedures to meet our obligations under HIPAA.  Becoming fully HIPAA compliant involves adopting and implementing privacy and security policies and procedures as well as administrative, physical, and technical safeguards.  Additionally, HIPAA compliance requires certain agreements with contracting partners to be in place.  Endeavoring to become fully HIPAA compliant may be costly both financially and in terms of administrative resources.  It may take substantial time and require the assistance of external resources, such as attorneys, information technology, and/or other consultants. We would have to be HIPAA compliant to provide services pursuant to which we are required to collect or manage patient information for or on behalf of a health care provider or health plan.  Thus, if we do not become fully HIPAA compliant, our expansion opportunities may be limited.  Furthermore, it is possible that HIPAA may be expanded in the future to apply to certain of our current products or services.. In addition, we may also collect and retain other sensitive types of data, including audio recordings of telephone calls and video images of customer sites.  We must comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations governing the collection, retention, processing, storage, disclosure, access, use, security, and privacy of such information in addition to our own posted information security and privacy policies and applicable industry standards.  The legal, regulatory, and contractual environment surrounding the foregoing continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data security issues with the potential to affect our business.  These privacy and data security laws and regulations, as well as contractual requirements, could increase our cost of doing business, and failure to comply with these laws, regulations and contractual requirements could result in government enforcement actions (which could include civil or criminal penalties), private litigation, and/or adverse publicity.  In the event of a breach of personal information that we hold, we may be subject to governmental fines, individual and class action claims, remediation expenses, and/or harm to our reputation.  Further, if we fail to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, regulations, policies and standards; properly protect the integrity and security of our facilities and systems and the data located within them; or defend against cybersecurity attacks, or if our third-party service providers, partners, or vendors fail to do any of the foregoing with respect to data and information assessed, used, stored, or collected on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. 12. Due to the ever-changing threat landscape, our products may be subject to potential vulnerabilities of wireless and IoT devices and our services may be subject to certain risks, including hacking or other unauthorized access to control or view systems and obtain private information.. Companies that collect and retain sensitive and confidential information are under increasing attack by cyber-criminals around the world.  While we implement security measures within our products, services, operations and systems, those measures may not prevent cybersecurity breaches; the access, capture or alteration of information by criminals; the exposure or exploitation of potential security vulnerabilities; distributed denial of service attacks; the installation of malware or ransomware; acts of vandalism; computer viruses; or misplaced data or data loss that could be detrimental to our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Third parties, including our partners and vendors, could also be a source of security risk to us in the event of a failure of their own products, components, networks, security systems, and infrastructure.  In addition, we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products and services.. A significant actual or perceived (whether or not valid) theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of customer, employee, or other personally identifiable data, whether by us, our partners and vendors, or other third parties, or as a result of employee error or malfeasance or otherwise, non-compliance with applicable industry standards or our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data, or a violation of our privacy and information security policies with respect to such data, could result in costs, fines, litigation, or regulatory actions against us.  Such an event could additionally result in unfavorable publicity and therefore materially and adversely affect the market's perception of the security and reliability of our services and our credibility and reputation with our customers, which may lead to customer dissatisfaction and could result in lost sales and increased customer revenue attrition.. In addition, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce.  Security breaches of, or sustained attacks against, this infrastructure could create system disruptions and shutdowns that could negatively impact our operations.  Increasingly, our products and services are accessed through the Internet, and security breaches in connection with the delivery of our services via the Internet may affect us and could be detrimental to our reputation, business, operating results, and financial condition.  We continue to invest in new and emerging technology and other solutions to protect our network and information systems, but there can be no assurance that these investments and solutions will prevent any of the risks described above.  While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first-party insurance coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect against all of our losses from any future disruptions or breaches of our systems or other event as described above.. We depend on third-party providers and suppliers for components of our security and automation systems, third-party software licenses for our products and services, and third-party providers to transmit signals to our monitoring facilities and provide other services to our subscribers. Any failure or interruption in products or services provided by these third parties could harm our ability to operate our business.. The components for the security and automation systems that we install are manufactured by third parties.  We are therefore susceptible to interruptions in supply and to the receipt of components that do not meet our standards.  Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may have negative effects on our business.  We exercise little control over our suppliers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the products and services they provide.  While we strive to utilize dual-sourcing methods to allow similar hardware components for our security systems to be interchangeable to minimize the risk of a disruption from a single supplier, any interruption in supply could cause delays in installations and repairs and the loss of current and potential customers.  Also, if a previously installed component were found to be defective, we might not be able to recover the costs associated with its repair or replacement across our installed customer base, and the diversion of technical personnel to address the defect could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We rely on third-party software for key automation features in certain of our offerings, and on the interoperation of that software with our own, such as our mobile applications and related platform.  We could experience service disruptions if customer usage patterns for such offerings exceed, or are otherwise outside of, design parameters for the system and the ability for us or our third-party provider to make corrections.  Such interruptions in the provision of services could result in our inability to meet customer demand, damage our reputation and customer relationships, and materially and adversely affect our business.  We also rely on certain software technology that we license from third parties and use in our products and services to perform key functions and provide critical functionality.  For example, we license the software platform for our monitoring operations from third parties.  Because a number of our products and services incorporate technology developed and maintained by third parties, we are, to a certain extent, dependent upon such third parties' ability to update, maintain, or enhance their current products and services, to ensure that their products are free of defects or security vulnerabilities, to develop new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to respond to emerging industry standards, customer preferences, and other technological changes.  Further, these third-party technology licenses may not always be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.  If our agreements with third-party vendors are not renewed or the third-party software becomes obsolete, is incompatible with future. 13. versions of our products or services, or otherwise fails to address our needs, we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to replace the functionality provided by the third-party software with technology from alternative providers.  Furthermore, even if we obtain licenses to alternative software products or services that provide the functionality we need, we may be required to replace hardware installed at our monitoring centers and at our customers' sites, including security system control panels and peripherals, in order to execute our integration of or migration to alternative software products.  Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We also rely on various third-party telecommunications providers and signal processing centers to transmit and communicate signals to our monitoring facility in a timely and consistent manner.  These telecommunications providers and signal processing centers could fail to transmit or communicate these signals to the monitoring facility for many reasons, including disruptions from fire, natural disasters, weather, transmission interruption, malicious acts, or terrorism.  The failure of one or more of these telecommunications providers or signal processing centers to transmit and communicate signals to the monitoring facility in a timely manner could affect our ability to provide alarm monitoring, home automation, and interactive services to our subscribers.  We also rely on third-party technology companies to provide home automation and interactive services to our subscribers.  These technology companies could fail to provide these services consistently, or at all, which could result in our inability to meet customer demand and damage our reputation.  There can be no assurance that third-party telecommunications providers, signal processing centers, and other technology companies will continue to transmit and communicate signals to the monitoring facility or provide home automation and interactive services to subscribers without disruption.  Any such disruption, particularly one of a prolonged duration, could have a material adverse effect on our business.  See also \" - Shifts in our customers' choice of, or telecommunications providers' support for, telecommunications services and equipment could materially adversely affect our business and require significant capital expenditures\" with respect to risks associated with changes in signal transmissions.. An event causing a disruption in the ability of our monitoring facilities to operate could materially adversely affect our business.. A disruption in our ability to provide security monitoring services and otherwise serve our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business.  A disruption could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, health epidemics or pandemics, transportation interruption, extended power outages, human or other error, war, terrorism, sabotage, or other conflicts, or as a result of disruptions to internal and external networks or third-party transmission lines.  Monitoring could also be disrupted by information systems and network-related events or cybersecurity attacks, such as computer hacking, computer viruses, worms or other malicious software, distributed denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering, or other destructive or disruptive activities that could also cause damage to our properties, equipment, and data.  While our monitoring systems are redundant, a failure of our back-up procedures or a disruption affecting multiple monitoring facilities could disrupt our ability to provide security monitoring services to our customers.  These events could also make it difficult or impossible to receive equipment from suppliers or impair our ability to deliver products and services to customers on a timely basis.  If we experience such disruptions, we may experience customer dissatisfaction and potential loss of confidence, and liabilities to customers or other third parties, each of which could harm our reputation and impact future revenues from these customers.  We could also be subject to claims or litigation with respect to losses caused by such disruptions.  Our property and business interruption insurance and our cyber liability insurance may not be sufficient to fully cover our losses or may not cover a particular event at all.  Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our independent, third-party authorized dealers may not be able to mitigate certain risks such as information technology breaches, data security breaches, product liability, errors and omissions, and marketing compliance.. We generate a portion of our new customers through our authorized dealer network.  We rely on independent, third-party authorized dealers to implement mitigation plans for certain risks they may experience, including, but not limited to, information technology breaches, data security breaches, product liability, errors and omissions, and marketing compliance.  If our authorized dealers experience any of these risks, or fail to implement mitigation plans for their risks, or if such implemented mitigation plans are inadequate or fail, we may be susceptible to risks associated with our authorized dealers on which we rely to generate customers.  Any interruption or permanent disruption in the generation of customer accounts or services provided by our authorized dealers could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We may pursue business opportunities that diverge from our current business model, which may materially adversely affect our business results.. We may pursue business opportunities that diverge from our current business model, including expanding our products or service offerings, investing in new and unproven technologies, adding customer acquisition channels, and forming new alliances with companies to market our services.  We can provide no assurance that any such business opportunities will prove to be successful.  Among other negative effects, our pursuit of such business opportunities could cause our cost of investment in new customers to grow at a faster rate than our recurring revenue and fees collected at the time of installation.  We recently acquired DataShield,. 14. LLC, a provider of cybersecurity services for mid-sized companies, which expands our suite of services.  We are also currently exploring the option of offering certain of our monitoring and cybersecurity services under non-ADT brands to international markets outside of the United States and Canada.  Additionally, any new alliances or customer acquisition channels could require developmental investments or have higher cost structures than our current arrangements, which could reduce operating margins and require more working capital.  In the event that working capital requirements exceed operating cash flow, we could be required to draw on our revolving credit facilities, which are described in Note 5 \"Debt\" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources,\" or pursue other external financing, which may not be readily available.  Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We continue to integrate the acquisition of The ADT Corporation with our business, which may divert management's attention from our ongoing operations.  We may not achieve all of the anticipated benefits, synergies, and cost savings from the acquisition.. Our acquisition of The ADT Corporation in May 2016 involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently.  While the integration of The ADT Corporation with our business is ongoing, the anticipated financial and operational benefits, including increased revenues, synergies, and cost savings from the acquisition of The ADT Corporation, depends in part on our ability to successfully continue to combine and integrate The ADT Corporation with our other business.  Since the integration is not yet complete, there can be no assurance regarding the extent to which we will be able to realize these increased revenues, synergies, cost savings, or other benefits.  These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame and we may not realize all of these anticipated benefits.. The continued integration of The ADT Corporation's operations, products, and personnel will continue to require the attention of our management and place demands on other internal resources.  The diversion of management's attention, and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, the overall continued integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and loss of customer relationships.  The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies may generally include, among others:. • difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from the combination;. • difficulties in the integration of operations and systems;. • difficulties in replacing numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll, data privacy, and security and regulatory compliance, many of which may be dissimilar;. • conforming standards, controls, procedures, accounting and other policies, business cultures, and compensation structures between the two companies;. • difficulties in the assimilation of employees, including possible culture conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps;. • difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company;. • challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers;. • challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and. • coordinating a geographically dispersed organization.. While we have not experienced any material difficulties to date in connection with the integration, many of these factors are outside our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, and further diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our customer generation strategies through third parties, including our authorized dealer and affinity marketing programs, and the competitive market for customer accounts may affect our future profitability.. An element of our business strategy is the generation of new customer accounts through third parties, including our authorized dealers, which accounted for approximately half of our new customer accounts for 2017.  Our future operating results will depend in large part on our ability to continue to manage this business generation strategy effectively. Although we currently generate. 15. accounts through hundreds of independent third parties, including authorized dealers, a significant portion of our accounts originate from a smaller number of such third parties, including an authorized premier provider that signed a nine-year renewal agreement with us in December 2017 and accounted for approximately 25% of all our new accounts in 2017.  We experience loss of third-party sales partnerships, including authorized dealers from our authorized dealer program, due to various factors, such as dealers and third parties becoming inactive or discontinuing their electronic security business, non-renewal of our dealer and sales generation contracts, and competition from other alarm monitoring companies.  If we experience a loss of authorized dealers or third-party sellers representing a significant portion of our customer account generation, or if we are unable to replace or recruit authorized dealers, other third-party sellers, or alternate distribution channel partners in accordance with our business strategy, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. In addition, successful promotion of our brands depends on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to offer member discounts and special offers for our products and services to our partners.  We have actively pursued affinity marketing programs, which provide members of participating organizations with special offers on our products and services.  The organizations with which we have affinity marketing programs typically closely monitor their relationships with us, as well as their members' satisfaction with our products and services.  These organizations may require us to pay higher fees to them, decrease our pricing for their members, introduce additional competitive options, or otherwise alter the terms of our participation in their marketing programs in ways that are unfavorable to us.  These organizations may also terminate their relationships with us if we fail to meet member satisfaction standards, among other things.  If any of our affinity or marketing relationships is terminated or altered in an unfavorable manner, we may lose a source of sales leads, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. We may not be able to continue to develop and execute a competitive yet profitable pricing structure.. We face competition from cable and telecommunications companies that are actively targeting the home automation and monitored security market, as well as from large technology companies that are expanding into the connected home market either through the development of their own solutions or the acquisition of other companies with home automation solution offerings.  This increased competition could result in pricing pressure, a shift in customer preferences toward the services of these companies, reduce our market share and make it more difficult for us to compete on brand-name recognition and reputation.  Continued pricing pressure from these competitors or failure to achieve pricing based on the competitive advantages previously identified above could prevent us from maintaining competitive price points for our products and services resulting in lost customers or in our inability to attract new customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We face risks in acquiring and integrating customer accounts.. An element of our business strategy may involve the bulk acquisition of customer accounts.  Acquisitions of customer accounts involve a number of special risks, including the possibility of unexpectedly high rates of attrition and unanticipated deficiencies in the accounts and systems acquired despite our investigations prior to acquisition.  We face competition from other alarm monitoring companies, including companies that may offer higher prices and more favorable terms for customer accounts purchased, and/or lower minimum financial or operational qualification or requirements for purchased accounts.  This competition could reduce the acquisition opportunities available to us, slowing our rate of growth, and/or increase the price we pay for such account acquisitions, thus reducing our return on investment and negatively impacting our revenue and results of operations.  We can provide no assurance that we will be able to purchase customer accounts on favorable terms in the future.. The purchase price we pay for customer accounts is affected by the recurring revenue historically generated by such accounts, as well as several other factors, including the level of competition, our prior experience with accounts purchased in bulk from specific sellers, the geographic location of accounts, the number of accounts purchased, the customers' credit scores, and the type of security or automation equipment or platform used by the customers. In purchasing accounts, we have relied on management's knowledge of the industry, due diligence procedures, and representations and warranties of bulk account sellers.  We can provide no assurance that in all instances the representations and warranties made by bulk account sellers are true and complete or, if the representations and warranties are inaccurate, that we will be able to recover damages from bulk account sellers in an amount sufficient to fully compensate us for any resulting losses. If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Shifts in our customers' choice of, or telecommunications providers' support for, telecommunications services and equipment could materially adversely affect our business and require significant capital expenditures.. Certain elements of our operating model have historically relied on our customers' continued selection and use of traditional land-line telecommunications to transmit alarm signals to our monitoring centers.  There is a growing trend for customers to switch. 16. to the exclusive use of cellular, satellite, or Internet communication technology in their homes and businesses, and telecommunication providers may discontinue their land-line services in the future.  Some older installed security systems use technology that is not compatible with the newer cellular, satellite or Internet communication technology, such as 3G and 4G networks, and will not be able to transmit alarm signals on these networks.  The discontinuation of land-line, older cellular technologies, and any other services by telecommunications providers, and the switch by customers to the exclusive use of cellular, satellite, or Internet communication technology, may require system upgrades to alternative, and potentially more expensive, technologies to transmit alarm signals and for systems to function properly.  This could increase our customer revenue attrition and slow new customer generation.  In January 2017, most major wireless network providers had fully retired their 2G networks.    To maintain our customer base that uses security and automation system components that communicate over 2G networks, we substantially completed a conversion program to replace 2G cellular technology used in many of our security systems at little or no additional cost to our customers.  Certain existing subscribers chose not to replace their 2G cellular technology, thereby increasing our attrition rates.  We continue to incur additional costs associated with upgrades and modifications to subscribers' cellular technology resulting from the retirement of 2G networks. In December 2017, as part of the Federal Communication Commission's (the \"FCC\") efforts to facilitate the transition from traditional copper-based wireline networks to IP-based fiber broadband networks, the FCC repealed its rules requiring telecommunications carriers to provide direct advanced public notice to consumers of the retirement of copper-based wireline networks used for traditional land-line telecommunications.  Many of our customers rely solely on copper-based telephone networks to transmit alarm signals from their premises to our monitoring stations.  In response to changes to existing network technology such as the eventual retirement of 3G and copper-based wireline networks, we will be required to upgrade or implement other new technologies in the future, including offering to subsidize the replacement of customers' outdated systems at our expense.  The FCC's changes to copper-based wireline network retirement rules could lead to customer confusion and impede our ability to timely transfer customers to new network technologies.  Any technology upgrades or implementations could require significant capital expenditures, may increase our attrition rates, and may also divert management's attention and other important resources away from our customer service and sales efforts for new customers.  In the future, we may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt existing technologies to changing market demands.  If we are unable to adapt in a timely manner to changing technologies, market conditions or customer preferences, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. In addition, we use broadband Internet access service, including video streaming services, to support our product offerings, and we may choose to implement broadband Internet access in our intrusion panels as a communications option for our services.  Video streaming services use significantly more bandwidth than non-video Internet activity.  As utilization rates and penetration of these services increase, our high-speed customers may use more bandwidth than in the past.  If this occurs, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity to avoid service disruptions or reduced capacity for customers and potentially increase our cost for the corresponding network usage.  See \" - Our future growth is dependent upon our ability to keep pace with rapid technological and industry changes to develop or acquire new technologies for our products and service introductions that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins.\". Unauthorized use of our brand names by third parties, and the expenses incurred in developing and preserving the value of our brand names, may materially adversely affect our business.. Our brand names are critical to our success.  Unauthorized use of our brand names by third parties may materially adversely affect our business and reputation, including the perceived quality and reliability of our products and services.  We rely on trademark law, company brand name protection policies, and agreements with our employees, customers, business partners, and others to protect the value of our brand names.  Despite our precautions, we cannot provide assurance that those procedures are sufficiently effective to protect against unauthorized third-party use of our brand names.  In particular, in recent years, various third parties have used our brand names to engage in fraudulent activities, including unauthorized telemarketing conducted in our names to induce our existing customers to switch to competing monitoring service providers, lead generation activities for competitors, and obtaining personally identifiable or personal financial information.  Third parties sometimes use our names and trademarks, or other confusingly similar variances thereof, in other contexts that may impact our brands.  We may not be successful in detecting, investigating, preventing, or prosecuting all unauthorized third-party use of our brand names.  Future litigation with respect to such unauthorized use could also result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources.  These factors could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Third parties hold rights to certain key brand names outside of the United States and Canada.. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to use trademarks to capitalize on our brands' name-recognition and to further develop our brands in the U.S. and Canadian markets, as well as in other international markets should we choose to expand our business in the future.  Not all of the trademarks that are used by our brands have been registered in all of the countries in which we may do business in the future, and some trademarks may never be registered in any or all of these countries.  Rights in trademarks are generally territorial in nature and are obtained on a country-by-country basis by the first person to obtain protection. 17. through use or registration in that country in connection with specified products and services.  Some countries' laws do not protect unregistered trademarks at all, or make them more difficult to enforce, and third parties may have filed for \"ADT,\" \"ASG SECURITY,\" \"PROTECTION ONE,\" or similar marks in countries where we have not registered these brands as trademarks.  Accordingly, we may not be able to adequately protect our brands everywhere in the world, and use of such brands may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution, or unfair competition.. In particular, certain trademarks associated with the ADT brand, including \"ADT\" and the blue octagon, are owned in all territories outside of the United States and Canada by Johnson Controls International plc, which recently acquired and merged with and into Tyco International plc (\"Johnson Controls\" or \"Tyco\").  In certain instances, such trademarks are licensed in certain territories outside the United States and Canada by Johnson Controls to third parties.  Pursuant to a trademark agreement entered into between The ADT Corporation and Tyco (the \"Tyco Trademark Agreement\") in connection with the separation of The ADT Corporation from Tyco in 2012, which endures in perpetuity, The ADT Corporation and its affiliates are prohibited from ever registering, attempting to register or using such trademarks outside the United States (including Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands) and Canada, and The ADT Corporation may not challenge Tyco's rights in such trademarks outside the United States and Canada.  Additionally, under the Tyco Trademark Agreement, each of The ADT Corporation and Tyco has the right to propose new secondary source indicators (e.g., 'Pulse') to become designated source indicators of such party.  To qualify as a designated source indicator, certain specified criteria must be met, including that the indicator has not been used as a material indicator by the non-proposing party or its affiliates over the previous seven years.  If The ADT Corporation were unable to object to Tyco's proposal for a new designated source indicator by successfully asserting that the new indicator did not meet the requisite criteria, The ADT Corporation would subsequently be precluded from using, registering, or attempting to register such indicator in any jurisdiction, including the United States and Canada, whether alone or in connection with an ADT brand.  While The ADT Corporation and Tyco are each required to (i) adhere to specified quality control standards with respect to the use of the subject trademarks in their respective jurisdictions, (ii) cooperate with respect to enforcement in their respective territories, and (iii) cooperate to avoid and correct any potential or actual customer confusion over the proper ownership of the ADT brand in any particular territory, it is nonetheless possible that dilution, infringement, or customer confusion may result from the arrangement.. Infringement of our intellectual property rights could negatively affect us.. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights.  We cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our intellectual property or technology.  Adverse events affecting the use of our trademarks could affect our use of those trademarks and negatively impact our brands.  In addition, if we expand our business outside of the United States and Canada in the future, effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some jurisdictions.  Furthermore, while we enter into confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our confidential information, trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture, or operation of our products and services.  If it becomes necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail.  Further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, trade secrets, or know-how.  If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Allegations that we have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of third parties could negatively affect us.. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties.  In particular, as our services have expanded, we have become subject to claims alleging infringement of intellectual property, including litigation brought by special purpose or so-called \"non-practicing\" entities that focus solely on extracting royalties and settlements by alleging infringement and threatening enforcement of patent rights.  These companies typically have little or no business or operations, and there are few effective deterrents available to prevent such companies from filing patent infringement lawsuits against us.  In addition, we rely on licenses and other arrangements with third parties covering intellectual property related to the products and services that we market.  Notwithstanding these arrangements, we could be at risk for infringement claims from third parties.  Additionally, while The ADT Corporation is party to a patent agreement with Tyco, which generally includes a covenant by Tyco not to bring an action against The ADT Corporation alleging that the manufacture, use, or sale of any products or services in existence as of the date of The ADT Corporation's separation from Tyco infringes any patents owned or controlled by Tyco and used by The ADT Corporation on or prior to such date, such agreement does not protect the Company, including The ADT Corporation, from infringement claims for future product or service expansions.  In general, if a court determines that one or more of our services infringes on intellectual property rights owned by others, we may be required to cease marketing those services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost or on unfavorable terms, or to take other potentially costly or burdensome actions to avoid infringing third-party intellectual property rights.  The litigation process is costly and subject to. 18. inherent uncertainties, and we may not prevail in litigation matters regardless of the merits of our position.  Intellectual property lawsuits or claims may become extremely disruptive if the plaintiffs succeed in blocking the trade of our products and services and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We are subject to credit risk and other risks associated with our dealers.. Under the standard alarm monitoring contract acquisition agreements that we enter into with our dealers, if a subscriber terminates their service with us during the first twelve months after the alarm monitoring contract has been acquired, the dealer is typically required to elect between substituting another alarm monitoring contract for the terminating alarm monitoring contract or compensating us in an amount based on the original acquisition cost of the terminating alarm monitoring contract.  We are subject to the risk that dealers will breach their obligation to provide a comparable substitute alarm monitoring contract for a terminating alarm monitoring contract or compensate us in an amount based on the original acquisition cost of the terminating alarm monitoring contract.  Although we withhold specified amounts from the acquisition cost paid to dealers for alarm monitoring contracts (\"holdback\"), which may be used to satisfy or offset these and other applicable dealer obligations under the alarm monitoring contract acquisition agreements, there can be no guarantee that these amounts will be sufficient to satisfy or offset the full extent of the default by a dealer of its obligations under its agreement.  If the holdback does prove insufficient to cover dealer obligations, we are also subject to the credit risk that the dealers may not have sufficient funds to compensate us or that any such dealer will otherwise breach its obligation to compensate us for a terminating alarm monitoring contract.  To the extent defaults by dealers of the obligations under their agreements are greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our dealers may expose us to additional risks.. We are subject to reputational risks that may arise from the actions of our dealers and their employees, independent contractors, and other agents that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as violations of our marketing policies and procedures as well as any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations.  If our dealers engage in marketing practices that are not in compliance with local laws and regulations, we may be in breach of such laws and regulations, which may result in regulatory proceedings and potential penalties that could materially impact our financial results, and results of operations.  In addition, unauthorized activities in connection with sales efforts by employees, independent contractors, and other agents or our dealers, including calling consumers in violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and predatory door-to-door sales tactics and fraudulent misrepresentations, could subject us to governmental investigations and class action lawsuits for, among others, false advertising and deceptive trade practice damage claims, against which we will be required to defend.  Such defense efforts will be costly and time-consuming, there can be no assurance that such defense efforts will be successful, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We may be subject to securities class actions and other lawsuits which may harm our business and results of operations.. We have previously been subject to securities class actions in connection with issues that arose prior to our acquisition of The ADT Corporation while it was still a publicly traded company.  Following certain periods of volatility in the market price of The ADT Corporation's securities, The ADT Corporation became the subject of securities litigation as described in The ADT Corporation's filings with the SEC.  We may be subject to additional suits in the future in connection with volatility in the market price for our securities or in connection with issues that may have arisen prior to our acquisition of The ADT Corporation.  This type of litigation may be lengthy, and may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.  Results cannot be predicted with certainty and an adverse outcome in such litigation could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, we are currently and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes.  These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business, including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes with our suppliers; intellectual property matters; third-party liability, including product liability claims; and employment claims.  There is a possibility that such claims may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations that is greater than we anticipate and/or negatively affect our reputation.. Increasing government regulation of telemarketing, email marketing, door-to-door sales and other marketing methods may increase our costs and restrict the operation and growth of our business.. We rely on telemarketing, email marketing, door-to-door sales, and other marketing methods conducted internally and through third parties to generate a substantial number of leads for our business.  The telemarketing and email marketing services industries are subject to an increasing amount of regulation in the United States and Canada. Regulations have been issued in the FTC and the FCC and in Canada by the CRTC that place restrictions on unsolicited telephone calls to residential and wireless. 19. telephone subscribers, whether direct dial or by means of automatic telephone dialing systems, prerecorded, or artificial voice messages and telephone fax machines, and require us to maintain a \"do not call\" list and to train our personnel to comply with these restrictions.  In the United States, the FTC regulates sales practices generally and email marketing and telemarketing specifically and has broad authority to prohibit a variety of advertising or marketing practices that may constitute \"unfair or deceptive acts or practices.\"  Most of the statutes and regulations in the United States applicable to telemarketing and email marketing allow a private right of action for the recovery of damages or provide for enforcement by the FTC and FCC, state attorneys general, or state agencies permitting the recovery of significant civil or criminal penalties, costs and attorneys' fees if regulations are violated.  In Canada, the CRTC enforces the Unsolicited Telecommunications Rules restricting unsolicited communications from telemarketers using direct dial, automatic dialing and announcing devices and fax.  The CRTC also enforces the Canadian Anti-Spam Law (\"CASL\"), which prohibits the sending of commercial emails without prior consent of the consumer or an existing business relationship and sets forth rules governing the sending of commercial emails.  Rules have been approved under CASL to allow private rights of action for the recovery of damages, which rules may come into force at any time.  CASL also allows the CRTC to recover significant civil penalties, costs, and legal fees if email or telemarketing regulations are violated.  We strive to comply with all such applicable regulations, but provide no assurance that we, our authorized dealers or third parties that we rely on for telemarketing, email marketing, and other lead generation activities will be in compliance with all applicable regulations at all times.  Although our contractual arrangements with our authorized dealers, affinity marketing partners, and other third parties generally require them to comply with all such regulations and to indemnify us for damages arising from their failure to do so, we can provide no assurance that the FTC, FCC, CRTC, private litigants, or others will not attempt to hold us responsible for any unlawful acts conducted by our authorized dealers, affinity marketing partners and other third parties or that we could successfully enforce or collect upon any indemnities.  Additionally, certain FCC rulings and FTC enforcement actions may support the legal position that we may be held vicariously liable for the actions of third parties, including any telemarketing violations by our independent, third-party authorized dealers that are performed without our authorization or that are otherwise prohibited by our policies.  The FCC, the FTC, and the CRTC have relied on certain actions to support the notion of vicarious liability, including, but not limited to, the use of the company brand or trademark, the authorization or approval of telemarketing scripts, or the sharing of consumer prospect lists.  Changes in such regulations or the interpretation thereof that further restrict such activities could result in a material reduction in the number of leads for our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our business operates in a regulated industry.. Our operations and employees are subject to various federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations in the United States and Canada in such areas as consumer protection, occupational licensing, environmental protection, labor and employment, tax, and other laws and regulations.  Most states and provinces in which we operate have licensing laws directed specifically toward the security services industry.  Our business relies heavily upon the use of both wireline and wireless telecommunications to communicate signals, and telecommunications companies are regulated by federal, state, provincial, and local governments.. In certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business.  The loss of such licenses or permits or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses or permits could have a material adverse effect on us.  Furthermore, in certain jurisdictions, certain security systems must meet fire and building codes to be installed, and it is possible that our current or future products and service offerings will fail to meet such codes, which could require us to make costly modifications to our products and services or to forego marketing in certain jurisdictions.. We must also comply with numerous federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations that govern matters relating to our interactions with residential customers, including those pertaining to privacy and data security, consumer financial and credit transactions, home improvement contracts, warranties, and door-to-door solicitation.  These laws and regulations are dynamic and subject to potentially differing interpretations, and various federal, state, provincial, and local legislative and regulatory bodies may initiate investigations, expand current laws or regulations, or enact new laws and regulations, regarding these matters.  As we expand our product and service offerings and enter into new jurisdictions, we may be subject to more expansive regulation and oversight. For example, as a result of our acquisition of DataShield, we are expanding our cybersecurity services and exploring markets outside of United States and Canada, and we will need to identify and comply with laws and regulations that apply to such services in the relevant jurisdictions.  In addition, any financing or lending activity will subject us to various rules and regulations, such as the U.S. federal Truth in Lending Act and analogous U.S. state and Canadian federal and provincial legislation.. Changes in these laws or regulations or their interpretation could dramatically affect how we do business, acquire customers, and manage and use information we collect from and about current and prospective customers and the costs associated therewith.  We strive to comply with all applicable laws and regulations relating to our interactions with all customers.  It is possible, however, that these requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices.. 20. Changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate or to utilize resources to maintain compliance, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations.  In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses.  If laws and regulations were to change or if we or our products failed to comply with them, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. We could be assessed penalties for false alarms.. Some local governments impose assessments, fines, penalties, and limitations on either customers or the alarm companies for false alarms.  Certain municipalities have adopted ordinances under which both permit and alarm dispatch fees are charged directly to the alarm companies.  Our alarm service contracts generally allow us to pass these charges on to customers, but we may not be able to collect these charges if customers are unwilling or unable to pay them and such outcome may materially and adversely affect our operating results.  Furthermore, our customers may elect to terminate or not renew our services if assessments, fines, or penalties for false alarms become significant.  If more local governments were to impose assessments, fines, or penalties, our customer base, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Police departments could refuse to respond to calls from monitored security service companies.. Police departments in certain U.S. and Canadian jurisdictions do not respond to calls from monitored security service companies unless certain conditions are met, such as video or other verification or eyewitness accounts of suspicious activities, either as a matter of policy or by local ordinance.  We offer video verification in certain jurisdictions which increases costs of some security systems, which may increase costs to customers.  As an alternative to video cameras in some jurisdictions, we have offered affected customers the option of receiving response from private guard companies, at least as an initial means to verify suspicious activities.  In most cases this is accomplished through contracts with private guard companies, which increases the overall cost to customers.  If more police departments were to refuse to respond or be prohibited from responding to calls from monitored security service companies unless certain conditions are met, such as video or other verification or eyewitness accounts of suspicious activities, our ability to attract and retain customers could be negatively impacted and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Adoption of statutes and governmental policies purporting to characterize certain of our charges as unlawful may adversely affect our business.. Generally, if a customer cancels their contract with us prior to the end of the initial contract term, other than in accordance with the contract, we may charge the customer an early cancellation fee.  Consumer protection policies or legal precedents could be proposed or adopted to restrict the charges we can impose upon contract cancellation.  Such initiatives could compel us to increase our prices during the initial term of our contracts and consequently lead to less demand for our services and increased customer attrition.  Adverse judicial determinations regarding these matters could cause us to incur legal exposure to customers against whom such charges have been imposed and expose us to the risk that certain of our customers may seek to recover such charges through litigation, including class action lawsuits.  In addition, the costs of defending such litigation and enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. In the absence of regulation, certain providers of Internet access may block our services or charge their customers more for using our services, or government regulations relating to the Internet could change, which could materially adversely affect our revenue and growth.. Our interactive and home automation services are primarily accessed through the Internet and our security monitoring services, including those utilizing video streaming, are increasingly delivered using Internet technologies.  Users who access our services through mobile devices, such as smart phones, laptops, and tablet computers must have a high-speed Internet connection, such as Wi-Fi, 3G, or 4G, to use our services.  Currently, this access is provided by telecommunications companies and Internet access service providers that have significant and increasing market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace.  In the absence of government regulation, these providers could take measures that affect their customers' ability to use our products and services, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving our packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely, or attempting to charge their customers more for using our products and services.  To the extent that Internet service providers implement usage-based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks, we could incur greater operating expenses and customer acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted.  Furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of Internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit our services from being available to our customers through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted.  Some of these providers also offer products and services that directly compete with our own offerings, which could potentially give them a competitive advantage.  While actions like these by Canadian providers would. 21. violate the net neutrality rules adopted by the CRTC described below, the FCC recently rolled back net neutrality protections in the United States as described below and most other countries have not adopted formal net neutrality or open Internet rules.. In 2009, the CRTC adopted Internet traffic management practices aimed at providing stronger net neutrality protections, and preventing Canadian Internet service providers from engaging in traffic shaping that are \"unjustly discriminatory\" or \"unduly preferential.\"  On February 26, 2015, the FCC reclassified broadband Internet access services in the United States as a telecommunications service subject to some elements of common carrier regulation, including the obligation to provide service on just and reasonable terms, and adopted specific net neutrality rules prohibiting the blocking, throttling or \"paid prioritization\" of content or services.  However, in May 2017, the FCC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to roll back net neutrality rules and return to a \"light touch\" regulatory framework. Consistent with this notice, on December 14, 2017, the FCC once again classified broadband Internet access service as an unregulated information service and repealed the specific rules against blocking, throttling or \"paid prioritization\" of content or services.  It retained a rule requiring Internet service providers to disclose their practices to consumers, entrepreneurs and the FCC.  A number of parties have already stated they would appeal this order and it is possible Congress may adopt legislation restoring some net neutrality requirements.  The elimination of net neutrality rules and any changes to the rules could affect the market for broadband Internet access service in a way that impacts our business. For example, if Internet access providers provide better Internet access for their own alarm monitoring or interactive services that compete with ADT's services or limit the bandwidth and speed for the transmission of data from ADT equipment, the demand for our services could be depressed or the costs of services we provide could increase.. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $13 billion of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding deferred financing costs.  Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition.  We review such assets for impairment at least annually.  Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance; adverse market conditions; adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services we offer; challenges to the validity of certain registered intellectual property; reduced sales of certain products or services incorporating registered intellectual property; increased attrition; and a variety of other factors.  The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to results of operations.  Depending on future circumstances, it is possible that we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets.  Any future determination of impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have significant deferred tax assets, and any impairments of or valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets in the future could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and Canada and in various state, territorial, provincial, and local jurisdictions. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to our interpretation and application of tax laws in jurisdictions in which we file.  Changes in current or future laws or regulations, the imposition of new or changed tax laws or regulations or new related interpretations by taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we file could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our future consolidated federal and state income tax liability may be significantly reduced by tax credits and tax net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryforwards available to us under the applicable tax codes.  Each of ASG, Protection One, and The ADT Corporation had material NOL carryforwards prior to our acquisition of such entity.  Our ability to fully utilize these deferred tax assets, however, may be limited for various reasons, such as if projected future taxable income becomes insufficient to recognize the full benefit of our NOL carryforwards prior to their expirations.  If a corporation experiences an \"ownership change,\" Sections 382 and 383 of the Code (as defined herein) provide annual limitations with respect to the ability of a corporation to utilize its NOL (as well as certain built-in losses) and tax credit carryforwards against future U.S. taxable income.  In general, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of the corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year testing period.. Our acquisitions of The ADT Corporation, ASG, and Protection One resulted in an ownership change of each of those entities.  Our ability to fully utilize the NOL carryforwards of those entities is subject to the limitations under Section 382 of the Code.  We do not expect that this limitation will impact our ability to utilize these tax attributes (NOLs).  However, it is possible that future changes in the direct or indirect ownership in our equity might result in additional ownership changes that may trigger the imposition of additional limitations under Section 382 of the Code with respect to these tax attributes.. In addition, audits by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") as well as state, territorial, provincial, and local tax authorities could reduce our tax attributes and/or subject us to tax liabilities if tax authorities make adverse determinations with respect to our. 22. NOL or tax credits carryforwards.  The Company is currently subject to federal income tax audits covering the 2010-2013 tax years.  During the third quarter of 2017, the Company was notified by the IRS of its intent to disallow amortization deductions claimed on the Company's $987 million trademark.  The Company intends to challenge this decision before the Appeals Division of the IRS.  If the Company were to lose the dispute, it would result in minimal cash tax liabilities to ADT, no impact to the Company's income statement, but material loss to the Company's NOL deferred tax asset.  The Company strongly disagrees with the IRS's position and maintains that the deductions claimed are appropriate.  The Company intends to vigorously defend its originally filed tax return position.  There can be no assurance that adjustments that would reduce the Company's tax attributes or otherwise affect the Company's tax liability will not be proposed by the IRS with respect to these tax years.  Further, any future disallowance of some or all of our tax credits or NOL carryforwards as a result of legislative change could materially adversely affect our tax obligations.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that in the future we will not be subject to increased taxation or experience limitations with respect to recognizing the benefits of our NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes.  Any such increase in taxation or limitation of benefits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  Finally, in 2016, the IRS commenced an audit of the Company related to the 2013 tax year.  The issue discussed above related to the amortization of the Company's trademark being disputed with the IRS would have a carryforward impact into ADT's 2013 tax year and forward.  As of the date of this report, we do not believe this audit will impair the Company's tax attributes.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" legislation (\"Tax Reform\"), which significantly reforms the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  The new legislation, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the full expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a modified territorial system.  In response to Tax Reform, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\") that allows companies to record provisional estimates of the effects of the legislative change, and a one-year measurement period to finalize the accounting of those effects.  Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities have been revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and provisional amounts associated with the legislation have been recognized in our tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2017.  Tax Reform includes complex changes, which are subject to interpretation by various tax authorities such as the Treasury Department and the IRS, and may differ from our preliminary interpretations and analysis.  State and local tax authorities also need to assess the impacts to their jurisdictions, and may enact changes to their existing laws in response to the changes that have been enacted at the federal level.  We expect the various tax authorities to issue their respective interpretations and guidance, and we will continue to assess the impact to our business accordingly.  Adjustments may be needed to the provisional amounts recorded in our 2017 financial statements, and these adjustments may materially impact our financial statements in the period in which the adjustments are made.  We do not expect Tax Reform to have a material impact to our projection of minimal cash taxes or to our NOLs.. We are exposed to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures than may be inherent in other businesses.. If a customer or third party believes that it has suffered harm to person or property due to an actual or alleged act or omission of one of our authorized dealers, employees, independent contractors, or other agents, or a security or interactive system failure, they (or their insurers) may pursue legal action against us, and the cost of defending the legal action and of any judgment against us could be substantial.  In particular, because our products and services are intended to help protect lives and real and personal property, we may have greater exposure to litigation risks than businesses that provide other commercial, consumer, and small business products and services.  Our standard customer contracts contain a series of risk-mitigation provisions that serve to limit our liability and/or limit a claimant's ability to pursue legal action; however, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters, it is possible that these risk-mitigation provisions may be deemed not applicable or unenforceable and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, we may incur significant costs of defense that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, and there can be no assurance that any such defense efforts will be successful.. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel, including an effective sales force, our ability to manage our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Our success will depend in part upon the continued services of our management team and sales representatives.  Our ability to recruit and retain key personnel for management positions and effective sales representatives could be impacted adversely by the competitive environment for management and sales talent.  The loss, incapacity, or unavailability for any reason of key members of our management team and the inability or delay in hiring new key employees, including sales force personnel, could materially adversely affect our ability to manage our business and our future operational and financial results.. 23. The loss of our senior management could disrupt our business.. Our senior management is important to the success of our business because there is significant competition for executive personnel with experience in the security and home automation industry.  As a result of this need and the competition for a limited pool of industry-based executive experience, we may not be able to retain our existing senior management.  In addition, we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover.  Moreover, we do not currently have and do not expect to have in the future \"key person\" insurance on the lives of any member of our senior management.  The loss of any member of our senior management team without retaining a suitable replacement (either from inside or outside our existing management team) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Adverse developments in our relationship with our employees could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 1,800 of our employees at various sites, or approximately 10% of our total workforce, were represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.  We are currently party to approximately 38 collective bargaining agreements in the United States and Canada.  Almost one-third of these agreements are up for renewal in any given year.  We cannot predict the outcome of negotiations of the collective bargaining agreements covering our employees.  If we are unable to reach new agreements or renew existing agreements, employees subject to collective bargaining agreements may engage in strikes, work slowdowns, or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services.  New labor agreements or the renewal of existing agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future.. We may be required to make indemnification payments relating to The ADT Corporation's separation from Tyco.. In connection with its separation from Tyco, The ADT Corporation entered into a tax sharing agreement (the \"2012 Tax Sharing Agreement\") with Tyco and Pentair Ltd., formerly Tyco Flow Control International, Ltd. (\"Pentair\"), which governs the rights and obligations of The ADT Corporation, Tyco, and Pentair for certain pre-separation tax liabilities.  The 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement provides that The ADT Corporation, Tyco, and Pentair will share (i) certain pre-separation income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to The ADT Corporation's, Tyco's, and Pentair's U.S. and certain non-U.S. income tax returns, and (ii) payments required to be made by Tyco in respect of a tax sharing agreement it entered into in connection with a 2007 spinoff transaction (collectively, \"Shared Tax Liabilities\").  Tyco is responsible for the first $500 million of Shared Tax Liabilities. The ADT Corporation and Pentair share 58% and 42%, respectively, of the next $225 million of Shared Tax Liabilities.  The ADT Corporation, Tyco, and Pentair share 27.5%, 52.5%, and 20.0%, respectively, of Shared Tax Liabilities above $725 million.  In addition, The ADT Corporation retained sole liability for certain specified U.S. and non-U.S. income and non-income tax items.  In 2010, The ADT Corporation acquired Broadview Security, a business formerly owned by The Brink's Company.  In connection with Broadview Security's separation from The Brink's Company, in 2008 it entered into a tax sharing agreement, which allocates historical and separation related tax liabilities between Broadview Security and The Brink's Company (the \"2008 Tax Sharing Agreement\").  Under the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement, The ADT Corporation bears 100% of all tax liabilities related to Broadview Security, including any tax liability that may be asserted under the 2008 Tax Sharing Agreement.  To our knowledge, no such tax liability has been asserted to date.. Under the terms of the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement, Tyco controls all U.S. income tax audits relating to the pre-separation taxable period (including the separation itself).  Tyco has been subject to federal income tax audits for the 1997 - 2009 tax years, and has resolved all aspects of its disputes before the U.S. Tax Court and before the Appeals Division of the IRS for audit cycles 1997 through 2009.  The resolution had an immaterial impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.  The 2010 through 2012 tax years are still under review with the IRS.. In addition, under the terms of the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the distribution of The ADT Corporation's common shares to the Tyco stockholders, the distribution of Pentair common shares to the Tyco stockholders, or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection therewith were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken by The ADT Corporation, Pentair, or Tyco after the distributions, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on The ADT Corporation, Pentair, or Tyco as a result thereof.  If such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distributions by The ADT Corporation, Pentair, or Tyco, then The ADT Corporation, Pentair, and Tyco would be responsible for any distribution taxes imposed on The ADT Corporation, Pentair, or Tyco as a result of such determination in the same manner and in the same proportions as the Shared Tax Liabilities.. See Note 7 \"Income Taxes\" and Note 8 \"Commitments and Contingencies\" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion.. 24. We may be subject to liability for obligations of The Brink's Company under the Coal Act or other coal-related liabilities of The Brink's Company.. On May 14, 2010, The ADT Corporation acquired Broadview Security, a business formerly owned by The Brink's Company.  Under the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992, as amended (the \"Coal Act\"), The Brink's Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries as of July 20, 1992 (including certain legal entities acquired in the Broadview Security acquisition) are jointly and severally liable with certain of The Brink's Company's other current and former subsidiaries for health care coverage obligations provided for by the Coal Act.  A Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association (\"VEBA\") trust has been established by The Brink's Company to pay for these liabilities, although the trust may have insufficient funds to satisfy all future obligations.  We cannot rule out the possibility that certain legal entities acquired in the Broadview Security acquisition may also be liable for other liabilities in connection with The Brink's Company's former coal operations.  At the time of the separation of Broadview Security from The Brink's Company in 2008, Broadview Security entered into an agreement pursuant to which The Brink's Company agreed to indemnify it for any and all liabilities and expenses related to The Brink's Company's former coal operations, including any health care coverage obligations.  The Brink's Company has agreed that this indemnification survives The ADT Corporation's acquisition of Broadview Security.  We in turn agreed to indemnify Tyco for such liabilities in our separation from it.  We have evaluated Broadview Security's potential liability under the Coal Act and otherwise with respect to The Brink's Company's former coal operations as a contingency in light of all known facts, including the funding of the VEBA, indemnification provided by The Brink's Company and the absence of any such claims against us to date.  We have concluded that no accrual is necessary due to the existence of the indemnification and our belief that The Brink's Company and VEBA will be able to satisfy all future obligations under the Coal Act and any other coal-related liabilities of The Brink's Company.  However, if The Brink's Company and the VEBA are unable to satisfy all such obligations, we could be held liable, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to our Indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could materially adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and prevent us from making debt service payments.. As of December 31, 2017, on a consolidated basis, we had $10.4 billion face value of outstanding indebtedness (excluding capital leases) and $795 million accumulated stated value of the Koch Preferred Securities.  The dividend obligation on the Koch Preferred Securities is recorded in interest expense.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, excluding borrowings and payments under our Revolving Credit Facilities (as defined in Note 5 \"Debt\" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements) and capital lease obligations, our cash flow used for debt service totaled $682 million, which includes scheduled quarterly principal payments of the First Lien Term B-1 Loan of $27 million, interest payments on our debt of $614 million, and dividend payments of $41 million associated with the Koch Preferred Securities.  Furthermore, we repaid $140 million of borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facilities and paid $6 million of other interest payments primarily related to our Revolving Credit Facilities and capital lease obligations.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, our cash flows from operating activities totaled $1,592 million, which includes interest paid on our debt of $620 million described above as well as dividends of $41 million related to the Koch Preferred Securities.  As such, our cash flows from operating activities (before giving effect to the payment of interest and dividends) amounted to $2,253 million. Cash payments used to service our debt represented approximately 30% of our net cash flows from operating activities (before giving effect to the payment of interest).. Our substantial indebtedness and the restrictive covenants under the agreements governing such indebtedness could:. • limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives, or other purposes;. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business;. • make us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage;. • make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy;. 25. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, engaging in development activities, introducing new technologies, or exploiting business opportunities;. • cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets; or. • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest.. In addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest.  Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our indebtedness.. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt, which could intensify the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial indebtedness in the future.  Although the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness contain certain restrictions on our and our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.  These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness.  Additionally, the covenants under any future debt instruments could allow us to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness.  The more leveraged we become, the more we, and in turn our security holders, will be exposed to certain risks described above under \" - Our substantial indebtedness could materially adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and prevent us from making debt service payments.\". We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and to fund our working capital and capital expenditures, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful.. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations depends upon, among other things:. • our future financial and operating performance (including the realization of any cost savings described herein), which will be affected by prevailing economic, industry, and competitive conditions and financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and. • our future ability to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facilities, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in the credit agreement governing such facilities.. We can provide no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to draw under our Revolving Credit Facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.  These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time.  Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations.  In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives.  In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations.  We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all.  Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due.  Our Sponsor and its affiliates have no continuing obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing.  Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could negatively impact our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, we will be in default and holders of the Prime Notes and the ADT Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, our secured lenders (including the lenders under our First Lien Credit Facilities (as defined herein) and the holders of the Notes) could foreclose against the assets securing the indebtedness owing to them, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. 26. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may need to repay or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility.. Our debt agreements contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt, guarantee indebtedness, or issue certain preferred equity interests;. • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, our capital stock, or make other restricted payments;. •prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt;. •make loans or certain investments;. •sell certain assets;. •create liens on certain assets;. •consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. •enter into certain transactions with our affiliates;. •alter the businesses we conduct;. •enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and. •designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.. As a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our debt agreements.  If any of the holders of our indebtedness accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness.. A failure to comply with the covenants under our debt agreements or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the event of any such default, the lenders thereunder:. • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us;. • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable; or. • could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings.. Such actions by the lenders could cause cross-defaults under our other indebtedness. If we are unable to repay those amounts, our secured lenders (including the lenders under our Credit Facilities and the holders of the Prime Notes and the ADT Notes) could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness.. If any of our outstanding indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full.. Our variable-rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under our Credit Facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk.  If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on certain of our variable-rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly. 27. decrease.  Assuming our Revolving Credit Facilities are fully drawn, each 0.125% change in assumed blended interest rates under the Credit Facilities would result in a $4 million change in annual interest expense on indebtedness under our Credit Facilities.  We currently have entered into, and in the future we may continue to enter into, interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed-rate interest payments to reduce interest rate volatility.  However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable-rate indebtedness, and any such swaps may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk, may prove disadvantageous, or may create additional risks.. The certificate of designation and other definitive agreements governing the Koch Preferred Securities contain certain designations, rights, preferences, powers, restrictions and limitations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Under the certificate of designation and other definitive agreements governing the Koch Preferred Securities, the Koch Preferred Securities are required to be redeemed on May 2, 2030.  Although we intend to redeem the Koch Preferred Securities in full prior to that time, if the Koch Preferred Securities remain outstanding, we will be required to redeem all remaining Koch Preferred Securities on May 2, 2030.  There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds available to redeem in full the Koch Preferred Securities at such time.. Upon consummation of our IPO, in January 2018, we deposited $750 million in cash into a separate account (the \"Segregated Account\"), which may only be used by the Company to redeem the Koch Preferred Securities (in whole or in part, from time to time).  In the event that we consummate an underwritten public offering of shares of our common stock following the IPO, but prior to the date that all Koch Preferred Securities have been redeemed in full, we are required to increase the cash amount deposited in the Segregated Account to an amount sufficient to redeem the Koch Preferred Securities as of certain dates.  We have agreed with the Koch Investor to maintain at all times the balance of the Segregated Account in an amount equal to at least the Minimum Segregated Account Amount (as defined in Note 6 \"Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities\" to our audited consolidated financial statements) until the Koch Preferred Securities have been redeemed in full.  If we do not maintain the Minimum Segregated Account Amount at any time, we will be required to redeem the Koch Preferred Securities in full.  There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds available to redeem in full the Koch Preferred Securities at such time.. The certificate of designation and other definitive agreements governing the Koch Preferred Securities also contain certain other designations, rights, preferences, powers, restrictions, and limitations that could require us to redeem all or a portion of the Koch Preferred Securities or require that we obtain the consent of the holders of a majority of the Koch Preferred Securities before taking certain actions or entering into certain transactions.  Such designations, rights, preferences, powers, restrictions, and limitations could hinder or delay our operations and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, prior to the redemption of the Koch Preferred Securities in full, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to certain affirmative and negative covenants, such as engaging in transactions with affiliates and paying dividends on our common stock, among other things, under the certificate of designation and other definitive agreements governing the Koch Preferred Securities.  See Note 6 \"Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities\" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion.. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Common Stock. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common stock could vary significantly as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control.  In the event of a drop in the market price of our common stock, you could lose a substantial part or all of your investment in our common stock.  The following factors could affect our stock price:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects;. • quarterly variations in the rate of growth (if any) of our financial indicators, such as net income per share, net income and revenues;. • the public reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. • strategic actions by our competitors;. • changes in operating performance and the stock market valuations of other companies;. • announcements related to litigation;. • our failure to meet revenue or earnings estimates made by research analysts or other investors;. 28. • changes in revenue or earnings estimates, or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage, by equity research analysts;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur;. • changes in accounting principles, policies, guidance, interpretations, or standards;. • additions or departures of key management personnel;. • actions by our stockholders;. • general market conditions;. • domestic and international economic, legal, and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance;. • material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting; and. • the realization of any risks described under this \"Risk Factors\" section, or other risks that may materialize in the future.. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies.  These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities.  Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources, and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We will incur significant costs and devote substantial management time as a result of operating as a public company.. As a public company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses.  For example, we will be required to comply with certain of the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC, and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\"), including the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices.  We expect that compliance with these requirements will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly.  In addition, we expect that our management and other personnel will need to divert attention from operational and other business matters to devote substantial time to these public company requirements.  In particular, we expect to continue incurring significant expenses and to devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.  In that regard, we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge.  We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs.. In addition, we continue to integrate the financial reporting systems of the Protection One, ASG and The ADT Corporation.  Successfully implementing our business plan and complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulations described above requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements.  Any delay in this implementation of, or disruption in, the transition to new or enhanced systems, procedures, or controls, may cause us to present restatements or cause our operations to suffer, and we may be unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our auditors.. We continue to be controlled by Apollo, and Apollo's interests may conflict with our interests and the interests of other stockholders.. As of the date of this report, Apollo has the power to elect a majority of our directors.  Therefore, individuals affiliated with Apollo will have effective control over the outcome of votes on all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including entering into significant corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers, and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and issuance of additional debt or equity.  The interests of Apollo and its affiliates, including funds affiliated with Apollo, could conflict with or differ from our interests or the interests of our other stockholders.  For example, the concentration of ownership held by funds affiliated with Apollo could delay, defer, or prevent a change in control of our company or impede a merger, takeover, or other business combination which may otherwise be favorable for us.  Additionally, Apollo and its affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in or provide advice to businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, or are suppliers or customers of ours.  Apollo and its affiliates may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to. 29. us.  Any such investment may increase the potential for the conflicts of interest discussed in this risk factor.  So long as funds affiliated with Apollo continue to directly or indirectly own a significant amount of our equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, Apollo and its affiliates will continue to be able to substantially influence or effectively control our ability to enter into corporate transactions.  In addition, we have an executive committee that serves at the discretion of our board of directors and is composed of two Apollo designees and our CEO, who are authorized to exercise all of the powers of our board of directors (subject to certain exceptions) when the board of directors is not in session that the executive committee reasonably determines are appropriate.  See \"Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance - Board Committees - Executive Committee\" for further discussion.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for and intend to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. Apollo controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock, and as a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards.  Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. • a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;. • the nominating and corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities;. • the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. • there be an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees.. We intend to utilize these exemptions as long as we remain a controlled company.  Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.. Our organizational documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium on their shares.. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may make it more difficult for, or prevent a third party from, acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors.  These provisions include:. • providing that our board of directors will be divided into three classes, with each class of directors serving staggered three-year terms;. • providing for the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of stock of the Company entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, if less than 50.1% of our outstanding common stock is beneficially owned by funds affiliated with Apollo;. • empowering only the board to fill any vacancy on our board of directors (other than in respect of a Sponsor Director (as defined below)), whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise;. • authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders;. • prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent if less than 50.1% of our outstanding common stock is beneficially owned by funds affiliated with Apollo;. • to the extent permitted by law, prohibiting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders if less than 50.1% of our outstanding common stock is beneficially owned by funds affiliated with Apollo; and. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. Additionally, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\") prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner.  An interested stockholder includes a person, individually or together with any other interested stockholder, who within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock.  However, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which became effective on the consummation of the IPO, includes a provision that restricts us from engaging in any business. 30. combination with an interested stockholder for three years following the date that person becomes an interested stockholder.  Such restrictions shall not apply to any business combination between our Sponsor and any affiliate thereof or their direct and indirect transferees, on the one hand, and us, on the other.. Our issuance of shares of preferred stock could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company.  Following the expected redemption of the Koch Preferred Securities, our board of directors shall have the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, in one or more series, to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices, and liquidation preferences of such series.  The issuance of shares of our preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares.. In addition, as long as funds affiliated with or managed by Apollo beneficially own a majority of our outstanding common stock, Apollo will be able to control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, and certain corporate transactions.  Together, these charter, bylaw and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock.  Furthermore, the existence of the foregoing provisions, as well as the significant common stock beneficially owned by funds affiliated with Apollo and its right to nominate a specified number of directors in certain circumstances, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.  They could also deter potential acquisitions of the Company, thereby reducing the likelihood that holders of our common stock could receive a premium for their common stock in an acquisition.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (b) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees, or agents to us or our stockholders; (c) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; or (d) any action asserting a claim related to or involving the Company that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine.  The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees.  Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities.. In connection with the ADT Acquisition in May 2016, funds affiliated with or managed by Apollo and certain other investors in our indirect parent entities (the \"Co-Investors\") received certain rights, including the right to designate one person to serve as a director (such director, the \"Co-Investor Designee\") as long as such Co-Investor's ownership exceeds a specified threshold.  As of March 8, 2018, one Co-Investor has the right to designate a Co-Investor Designee.  In addition, the Koch Investor has the right, so long as the Koch Investor holds at least 25% of the Koch Preferred Securities, to (i) designate one director to our board (the \"Koch Investor Designee\") and (ii) designate up to two observers to our board.  Under the Stockholders Agreement (see \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence - Stockholders Agreement\"), Ultimate Parent has the right, but not the obligation, to nominate the Co-Investor Designee, and the Koch Investor Designee to serve as members of our board of directors.  Ultimate Parent's right to nominate the Co-Investor Designee and the Koch Investor Designee is in addition to Ultimate Parent's right to nominate a specified percentage of the directors (the \"Apollo Designees\") based on the percentage of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned by the Sponsor (see \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence - Stockholders Agreement\").. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, none of Apollo, the one Co-Investor that maintains a right to appoint a director, the Koch Investor, or any of their respective portfolio companies, funds, or other affiliates, or any of their officers, directors, agents, stockholders, members, or partners have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities, similar business activities, or lines of business in which we operate.  In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, no officer or director of ours who is also an officer,. 31. director, employee, managing director, or other affiliate of Apollo, the Co-Investor, or the Koch Investor will be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity to Apollo, the Co-Investor, or the Koch Investor, as applicable, instead of us, or does not communicate information regarding a corporate opportunity to us that the officer, director, employee, managing director, or other affiliate has directed to Apollo, the Co-Investor, or the Koch Investor, as applicable.  For instance, a director of our company who also serves as a director, officer, or employee of Apollo, the Co-Investor, the Koch Investor, or any of their respective portfolio companies, funds, or other affiliates may pursue certain acquisitions or other opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such acquisition or other opportunities may not be available to us.  As of the date of this report, this provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relates only to the Apollo Designees, the Co-Investor Designee, and the Koch Investor Designee.  There are currently eleven directors of our Company, six of whom are Apollo Designees, one of which is a Co-Investor Designee, and one of which is a Koch Investor Designee.  These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by Apollo, the Co-Investor, or the Koch Investor to itself or their respective portfolio companies, funds, or other affiliates instead of to us.. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions, and other payments, advances, and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations.. We are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own.  As a result, we are largely dependent upon cash dividends and distributions and other transfers, including for payments in respect of our indebtedness, from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations.  The agreements governing the indebtedness of our subsidiaries impose restrictions on our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us.  See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\"  Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from them and we may be limited in our ability to cause any future joint ventures to distribute their earnings to us.  The deterioration of the earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could also limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us.. You may be diluted by the future issuance of additional common stock or convertible securities in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise, which could adversely affect our stock price.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue shares of common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to common stock for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions or otherwise.  Refer to Note 12 \"Share-Based Compensation\" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for details of the number of options outstanding, which are exercisable into shares of our common stock, and \"Item 11. Executive Compensation\" for details of shares reserved and issuable under our new equity incentive plan.  Any common stock that we issue, including under our new equity incentive plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, as well as under outstanding options would dilute the percentage ownership held by holders of our common stock.  From time to time in the future, we may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock pursuant to a variety of transactions, including acquisitions.  Our issuance of additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock would dilute the percentage ownership of the Company held by holders of our common stock and the sale of a significant amount of such shares in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception in the public market that such sales may occur, could reduce our stock price.. The number of outstanding shares of common stock includes shares beneficially owned by Apollo and certain of our employees, that are \"restricted securities,\" as defined under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), and eligible for sale in the public market subject to the requirements of Rule 144.  We, each of our officers and directors, Apollo, and substantially all of our existing stockholders have agreed that (subject to certain exceptions), for a lock-up period of 180 days after the IPO, we and they will not, without the prior written consent of certain underwriters dispose of any shares of common stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock.  Following the expiration of the applicable lock-up period, all of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock will be eligible for future sale, subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding periods, and other limitations of Rule 144.  Certain underwriters may, in their sole discretion, release all or any portion of the shares subject to lock-up agreements at any time and for any reason.  In addition, Apollo has certain rights to require us to register the sale of common stock held by Apollo, including in connection with underwritten offerings.  Sales of significant amounts of stock in the public market upon expiration of lock-up agreements, the perception that such sales may occur, or early release of any lock-up agreements, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock or make it more difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate.  See \"Item 12.  Security. 32. Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management\" for further details on the number of shares of our common stock beneficially owned by Apollo and certain of our employee.. There can be no assurances that a viable public market for our common stock will be maintained.. Prior to the IPO, our common stock was not traded on any market.  An active, liquid, and orderly trading market for our common stock may not be maintained.  Active, liquid, and orderly trading markets usually result in less price volatility and more efficiency in carrying out investors' purchase and sale orders.  We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our common stock will result in an ongoing active trading market on the NYSE or otherwise or how liquid that market will be.  If an active public market for our common stock is not sustained, it may be difficult for holders of our common stock to sell their shares at a price that is attractive or at all.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or publish negative reports, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business.  If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.  Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. We may issue preferred securities, the terms of which could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred securities having such designations, preferences, limitations, and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine.  The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred securities could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock.  For example, we might grant holders of preferred securities the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions.  Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred securities could affect the residual value of the common stock."
