[1] "ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORS. Adtalem’s business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are not entirely within our control. Investors should carefully consider the risk factors described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making an investment decision with respect to Adtalem’s common stock. If any of the following risks are realized, Adtalem’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, and as a result, the price of Adtalem’s common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Management cannot predict all the possible risks and uncertainties that may arise. Risks and uncertainties that may affect Adtalem’s business include, but are not limited to:. Risks Related to Adtalem’s Highly Regulated Industry. We are subject to regulatory audits, investigations, lawsuits or other proceedings relating to compliance by the institutions in the Adtalem portfolio with the numerous laws and regulations applicable to the postsecondary education industry. Due to the highly regulated nature of proprietary postsecondary institutions, we are subject to audits, compliance reviews, inquiries, complaints, investigations, claims of non-compliance and lawsuits by federal and state governmental agencies, regulatory agencies, accrediting agencies, present and former students and employees, shareholders and other third parties, any of whom may allege violations of any of the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to us. If the results of any such claims or actions are unfavorable to us or one or more of our institutions, we may be required to pay monetary fines or penalties, be required to repay funds received under Title IV programs or state financial aid programs, have restrictions placed on or terminate our schools’ or programs’ eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or state financial aid programs, have limitations placed on or terminate our schools’ operations or ability to grant degrees and certificates, have our schools’ accreditations restricted or revoked or be subject to civil or criminal penalties. U.S. Department of Education (“ED”) regulations regarding financial responsibility provide that, if any one of our Title IV-participating institutions (“Title IV Institutions”) is unable to pay its obligations under its Program Participation Agreement (“PPA”) as a result of operational issues and/or an enforcement action, our other Title IV Institutions, regardless of their compliance with applicable laws and regulations, would not be able to maintain their Title IV eligibility without assisting in the repayment of the non-compliant institution’s Title IV obligations. As a result, even though Adtalem’s Title IV Institutions are operated through independent entities, an enforcement action against one of our institutions could also have a material adverse effect on the businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Adtalem’s other Title IV Institutions and Adtalem as a whole and could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on the ability for Adtalem’s other Title IV Institutions and for Adtalem as a whole to operate.. The ongoing regulatory effort aimed at proprietary postsecondary institutions of higher education could be a catalyst for additional legislative or regulatory restrictions, investigations, enforcement actions and claims.. The proprietary postsecondary education sector is experiencing scrutiny in the form of investigations and enforcement actions. Various federal agencies, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), are actively investigating or suing members of the proprietary postsecondary education industry, and at least 30 state attorneys general have joined an examination of potential abuses within the proprietary postsecondary education industry. An adverse disposition of these existing inquiries, administrative actions or claims or the initiation of other inquiries, administrative actions or claims, could, directly or indirectly, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations and cash flows and result in significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. 28. Adverse publicity arising from investigations, claims or actions brought against us or other proprietary higher education institutions may negatively affect our reputation, business or stock price, or attract additional investigations, lawsuits or regulatory action.. Adverse publicity regarding any past, pending or future investigations, claims, settlements and/or actions against us or other proprietary postsecondary education institutions could negatively affect our reputation, student enrollment levels, revenue, profit and/or the market price of our common stock. Unresolved investigations, claims and actions, or adverse resolutions or settlements thereof, could also result in additional inquiries, administrative actions or lawsuits, increased scrutiny, the withholding of authorizations and/or the imposition of other sanctions by state education and professional licensing authorities, taxing authorities, our accreditors and other regulatory agencies governing us, which, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties have initiated, and could initiate additional investigations, claims or actions against us, which could require us to pay monetary damages, halt certain business practices or receive other sanctions. The defense and resolution of these matters could require us to expend significant resources.. As described in “Note 15: Commitments and Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, Adtalem, DeVry University, Inc., and DeVry/New York Inc. are the subject of numerous consumer lawsuits alleging facts similar to those alleged by the FTC and ED in previously resolved actions. Due to the regulatory and enforcement efforts directed at us and other proprietary postsecondary higher education institutions and adverse publicity arising from such efforts, we may face additional government and regulatory investigations and actions, lawsuits from private plaintiffs and shareholder derivative claims. We may incur significant costs and other expenses in connection with our response to, and defense, resolution or settlement of, investigations, claims or actions, or group of related investigations, claims or actions, which, individually or in the aggregate, could be outside the scope of, or in excess of, our existing insurance coverage and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As part of our resolution of any such matter, or group of related matters, we may be required to comply with certain forms of injunctive relief, including altering certain business practices, or pay substantial damages, settlement costs, fines and/or penalties. In addition, findings or claims or settlements thereof could serve as a basis for additional lawsuits or governmental inquiries or enforcement actions, including actions under ED’s defense to repayment Regulations (“Defense to Repayment Regulations”). Such actions, individually or combined with other proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Additionally, an adverse allegation, finding or outcome in any of these matters could also materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain, obtain or renew licenses, approvals or accreditation and maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV, Department of Defense and Veterans Affairs programs or serve as a basis for ED to discharge certain Title IV student loans and seek recovery for some or all of its resulting losses from us under future Defense to Repayment Regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. ED has issued regulations setting forth new standards and procedures related to borrower defenses to repayment of Title IV loan obligations, ED’s right of recoveries against institutions following a successful borrower defense and institutional financial responsibility. It is possible that a finding or allegation arising from current or future legal proceedings or governmental administrative actions may create significant liability under the proposed regulations.. On October 28, 2016, ED published final rules concerning the acts or omissions of an institution of higher education that a student borrower may assert as a defense to repayment of a loan made under the Direct Loan Program and certain other matters (the “2016 DtR Regulations”). The 2016 DtR Regulations created a new federal standard for borrower defenses, new limitation periods for borrower defense claims and new processes for resolution of such claims. On June 14, 2017, ED announced that it would indefinitely postpone the implementation of the majority of the 2016 DtR Regulations, which were due to take effect on July 1, 2017. ED also announced its intention to reassess and revise these rules, and ED published new draft Defense to Repayment Regulations on July 25, 2018. ED has allowed for a 30-day comment period and intends to publish final, revised Defense to Repayment Regulations in the late fall of 2018. Management is unable to predict the result of any current or future rulemakings or the impact of such rulemakings on our business. If ED does not adopt the new rules that modify the Defense to Repayment Regulations, the outcome of any legal proceeding instituted by a private party or governmental authority, facts asserted in pending or future lawsuits and/or the outcome of any future governmental inquiry, lawsuit or enforcement action (including matters described in described in “Note 15: Commitments and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K and in the subsection of Item 7 of this Form 10-K entitled “Liquidity and Capital Resources”) could serve as the basis for claims by students or ED under the Defense to Repayment Regulations, the posting of substantial letters of credit or the termination of eligibility of our institutions to participate in the Title IV program based on ED’s institutional capability assessment, any of which could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. 29. Regardless of the merits of our actions, while we intend to defend ourselves vigorously in all pending and future legal proceedings, we may settle certain matters for strategic reasons, as a part of a resolution of other matters or in order to avoid potentially worse consequences arising from inherently uncertain judicial or administrative processes. Moreover, regardless of the merits of our defenses, if we are unable to resolve certain legal proceedings or regulatory actions, indirect consequences arising from unproven allegations or appealable regulatory findings may have adverse consequences to us.. While the future of the Defense to Repayment Regulations remains uncertain, certain constituencies are advocating to maintain and/or create standards and processes that would afford holders of federal student loans the broadest relief possible, which could potentially arise as a consequence of certain findings in pending or future governmental inquiries, lawsuits or enforcement actions against us. Despite the merits of our actions and defense, we may settle certain matters for strategic reasons, as a part of a resolution of other matters or in order to avoid potentially worse consequences in inherently uncertain judicial or administrative processes. The terms of any such settlement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Additionally, although inconsistent with its usual practices, ED has broad discretion to impose significant limitations on us and our business operations arising from acts it determines are in violation of their regulations, including the Defense to Repayment Regulations to the extent they are revised and re-issued. As a result, foreseeable and unforeseeable consequences of prior and prospective adjudicated or settled legal proceedings and regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. If the Defense to Repayment Regulations are not significantly modified through upcoming rulemaking, pending or future lawsuits, investigations, program reviews and other events could each trigger, automatically or in some cases at ED’s discretion, the posting of letters of credit or other security.. The Defense to Repayment Regulations, if they are not significantly modified in connection with ED’s announced new rulemaking and recent July 25, 2018 draft rules, ED could require Adtalem to post multiple and substantial letters of credit or other security in connection with, among other things, certain pending and future claims, investigations and program reviews, regardless of the merits of our actions or available defenses, or, potentially, the severity of any findings or facts stipulated. The aggregate amount of these letters of credit or other required security could materially and adversely limit our borrowing capacity under our credit agreement and our ability to make capital expenditures and other investments aimed at growing and diversifying our operations, sustain and fund our operations and make dividend payments to shareholders. Adtalem’s credit agreement allows Adtalem to post up to $100 million in letters of credit. In the event Adtalem is required to post letters of credit in excess of the $100 million limit, Adtalem would be required to seek an amendment to its credit agreement or seek an alternative means of providing security required by ED. Adtalem may not be able to obtain the excess letters of credit or security or may only be able to obtain such excess letters of credit or security at significant cost.. We are subject to risks relating to regulatory matters. If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our operations, we could face fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal and state student financial aid for our students as well as significant civil liability.. As a provider of higher education, we are subject to extensive regulation. These regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases and aspects of our U.S. postsecondary operations, including educational program offerings, facilities, civil rights, safety, privacy, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, payment of refunds to students who withdraw, acquisitions or openings of new schools or programs, addition of new educational programs and changes in our corporate structure and ownership.. In particular, in the U.S., the Higher Education Act (“HEA”) subjects schools that participate in the various federal student financial aid programs under Title IV of the HEA (“Title IV”), which includes Chamberlain, AUC, RUSM, RUSVM, DeVry University and Carrington, to significant regulatory scrutiny. Adtalem’s Title IV Institutions collectively receive 69% of their revenue from students under Title IV programs. As a result, the suspension, limitation or termination of the eligibility of any of our institutions to participate in Title IV programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. 30. To participate in Title IV programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED and be certified by ED as an eligible institution, which ultimately is accomplished through the execution of a PPA.. Our institutions that participate in Title IV programs each do so pursuant to a PPA that, among other things, includes commitments to abide by all applicable laws and regulations, such as the Incentive Compensation, Substantial Misrepresentation and Gainful Employment regulations (“GE”). Alleged violations of such laws or regulations may form the basis of civil actions for violation of state and/or federal false claims statutes predicated on violations of a PPA, including pursuant to lawsuits brought by private plaintiffs on behalf of governments (qui tam actions), that have the potential to generate very significant damages linked to our receipt of Title IV funding from the government over a period of several years.. As described in “Note 15: Commitments and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, on January 27, 2016, DeVry University received a Notice of Intent to Limit from ED (the “ED January 2016 Notice”) informing DeVry University of ED’s intention to impose certain limitations on the participation of DeVry University in programs authorized pursuant to Title IV. DeVry University requested a hearing regarding ED’s proposed limitations and, on October 13, 2016, reached a negotiated settlement agreement with ED regarding the ED January 2016 Notice (the “ED Settlement”). Under the terms of the ED Settlement, among other things, without admitting wrongdoing, DeVry University (1) may no longer make representations regarding the graduate employment outcomes of DeVry University graduates from 1975 to October 1980, including advertising regarding the cumulative graduate employment outcomes since 1975 (the “Since 1975 Representation”); (2) will maintain or undertake certain recordkeeping and compliance practices to support future representations regarding graduate employment rates; and (3) will post a notice on its website and in its enrollment agreements regarding the Since 1975 Representation. The ED Settlement also provides that, except for heightened cash monitoring requirements, ED will not impose conditions on the timing of, or documentation requirements for, disbursement of aid due to matters relating to lack of substantiation for the Since 1975 Representation. As a result of the ED Settlement, DeVry University’s participation in Title IV programs will be subject to provisional certification for five years from the date of the ED Settlement, and DeVry University is required to post a letter of credit equal to the greater of 10% of DeVry University’s annual Title IV disbursements in its most recent fiscal year or $68.4 million for a five-year period. An institution under provisional certification must obtain ED approval before it may award or disburse Title IV funds based on a substantial change, including the establishment of a new location or the addition of an educational program. Provisional certification status also carries fewer due process protections than full certification. As a result, ED may withdraw an institution’s provisional certification more easily than if an institution is fully certified. Provisional certification does not otherwise limit access to Title IV program funds by students attending the institution.. GE regulations became effective on July 1, 2015. The GE regulations measure programs according to several debt-to-income categories: passing, zone and failing. Programs that fail GE accountability metrics in two out of any three consecutive years or do not pass in any four consecutive years will be disqualified from participation in Title IV programs for a period of three years, and an institution is prohibited from establishing Title IV eligibility for any substantially similar program during that period. The GE regulations also require institutions to make certain public disclosures and report additional information to ED, which requirements management believes are administratively burdensome and could result in increased compliance costs. Draft regulations rescinding the GE regulations have been published by ED; ED has allowed for a 30-day comment period and intends to publish final, revised GE rules in the late fall of 2018.. Approximately 11% of Adtalem’s 2014-2015 academic year programs fell into the failing category, and approximately 15% of Adtalem’s programs fell into the zone category, including RUSVM’s veterinary medicine program. Adtalem provided required warnings to enrolled and prospective students with respect to programs considered under the GE regulations to be in jeopardy of losing Title IV eligibility in February 2017. Management expects that certain programs will be able to avoid falling into the zone or failing categories in future years through adjustments to the price, or, if appropriate and consistent with programmatic standards, the duration of such programs. For programs where such adjustments or initiatives are not feasible, which may include RUSVM’s veterinary medicine program, we may discontinue such programs or direct students to third-party lenders for financial support of student tuition and other expenses. These adjustments or initiatives, or any requirement to issue warnings to enrolled and prospective students, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Management expects RUSVM will continue to be in the zone category for the 2015-2016 and 2016-2017 academic years, as well as, if potential initiatives to improve graduate incomes are not executable, are not executed or are unsuccessful, the 2017-2018 academic year. This is possible notwithstanding strong student outcomes and very low Cohort Default Rates for RUSVM graduates (0.2% as for fiscal year 2014, the latest 3-year cohort period for which official data is available). In March 2017, ED delayed implementation of some portions of the GE reporting regulations until July 1, 2017. ED indicated in the delay announcement that its action was taken to allow ED to further review the GE regulations and their implementation. On June 16, 2017, ED then announced its intention to revise these rules. The timing and effective date of any future final regulations cannot be determined at this time. If the GE regulations and guidance are not changed prior to 2019 and RUSVM’s veterinary program is determined by ED to be the zone category for the 2015-2016 and 2016-2017 academic years, RUSVM would be required to issue warnings to students in 2019 that Title IV funding may no longer be available to students attending RUSVM. Further, if RUSVM’s veterinary program is determined to be in the zone category for the 2017-2018 academic year, RUSVM students would no longer have access to Title IV student aid as early as the beginning of 2020, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 31. The U.S. Congress may change laws governing federal financial aid programs in ways that could reduce our student enrollment.. Action by the U.S. Congress to revise the laws governing the federal student financial aid programs or reduce funding for those programs could reduce Adtalem’s student enrollment and/or increase its costs of operation. Political and budgetary concerns significantly affect Title IV programs. The U.S. Congress enacted the HEA to be reauthorized on a periodic basis, which most recently occurred in August 2008. The 2008 reauthorization of the HEA made significant changes to the requirements governing Title IV programs, including changes that, among other things:. ·Regulated non-federal, private education loans;. ·Regulated the relationship between institutions and lenders that make education loans;. ·Revised the calculation of the student default rate attributed to an institution and the threshold rate at which sanctions will be imposed against an institution (as discussed above);. ·Adjusted the types of revenue that an institution is deemed to have derived from Title IV programs and the sanctions imposed on an institution that derives too much revenue from Title IV programs;. ·Increased the types and amount of information that an institution must disclose to current and prospective students and the public; and. ·Increased the types of policies and practices that an institution must adopt and follow.. Committee leadership of the U.S. House of Representatives has put forth a comprehensive HEA proposal. However, the Senate has not put forth a comprehensive HEA reauthorization proposal, and reauthorization activities have not begun in earnest. When HEA is reauthorized, existing programs and participation requirements are subject to change. Additionally, funding for student financial assistance programs may be impacted during appropriations and budget actions.. The U.S. Congress can change the laws affecting Title IV programs in annual federal appropriations bills and other laws it enacts between the HEA reauthorizations. At this time, Adtalem cannot predict any or all of the changes that the U.S. Congress may ultimately make. Since a significant percentage of Adtalem’s revenue is tied to Title IV programs, any action by the U.S. Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding or the ability of Adtalem’s degree-granting institutions or students to participate in Title IV programs could have a material adverse effect on Adtalem’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Recently proposed legislation that, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our business includes:. ·Limitations on the enrollment of U.S. citizens in foreign medical schools;. ·Institution sharing of cost of defaulted federal student loans; and. ·Extending Title IV eligibility to low-cost, non-traditional, non-accredited programs.. Our ability to comply with some ED regulations is affected by economic forces affecting our students and graduates that are not entirely within our control.. Our ability to comply with several ED regulations is not entirely within our control. In particular, our ability to participate in federal Title IV programs is dependent on the ability of our past students to avoid default on student loans, obtain employment and pay for a portion of their education with private funds. These factors are heavily influenced by broader economic drivers, including the personal or family wealth of our students, the overall employment outlook for their area of study and the availability of private financing sources. An economic downturn, or a worsening economic outlook, could impact these factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. 32. ED rules prohibiting “substantial misrepresentation” are very broad. As a result, we face increased exposure to litigation arising from student and prospective student complaints and enforcement actions by ED that could restrict or eliminate our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. ED regulations prohibit any “substantial misrepresentation” by our Title IV Institutions, employees and agents regarding the nature of the institution’s educational programs, its financial charges or the employability of its graduates. These regulations may, among other things, subject us to sanctions for statements containing errors made to non-students, including any member of the public, impose liability on us for the conduct of others and expose us to liability even when no actual harm occurs. A “substantial misrepresentation” is any misrepresentation on which the person to whom it was made could reasonably be expected to rely, or has reasonably relied, to that person’s detriment. It is possible that despite our efforts to prevent misrepresentations, our employees or service providers may make statements that could be construed as substantial misrepresentations. As a result, we may face complaints from students and prospective students over statements made by us and our agents in advertising and marketing, during the enrollment, admissions and financial aid process and throughout attendance at any of our Title IV Institutions, which would expose us to increased risk of enforcement action and applicable sanctions or other penalties, including potential Defense to Repayment liabilities, and increased risk of private qui tam actions under the Federal False Claims Act. Further, our historically-disclosed graduate employment statistics, or advertising regarding such statistics, which ED is investigating, could be found to be in violation of the substantial misrepresentation regulations. If ED determines that an institution has engaged in substantial misrepresentation, ED may (1) fine the institution; (2) discharge students’ debt and hold the institution liable for the discharged debt under the HEA and the Defense to Repayment Regulations; and/or (3) suspend or terminate an institution’s participation in Title IV programs. Alternatively, ED may impose certain other limitations on the institution’s participation in Title IV programs, which could include the denial of applications for approval of new programs or locations, a requirement to post a substantial letter of credit or the imposition of one of ED’s heightened cash monitoring processes. Any of the forgoing actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. Regulations governing the eligibility of our U.S. degree-granting institutions to participate in Title IV programs preclude us from compensating any employee or third-party involved in student recruitment, admissions or the awarding of financial aid based on their success in those areas. These regulations could limit our ability to attract and retain highly-qualified employees, to sustain and grow our business or to develop or acquire businesses that would not otherwise be subject to such regulations.. An educational institution participating in Title IV programs may not pay any commission, bonus or other incentive payments to any person involved in student recruitment or admissions or the awarding of Title IV program funds, if such payments are based directly or indirectly in any part on success in enrolling students or obtaining student financial aid. We cannot be sure that the compensation that we have paid our employees will not be determined to violate these regulations. Our limited ability to compensate our employees based on their performance of their job responsibilities could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain highly-qualified employees. These regulations may also impair our ability to sustain and grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A failure to demonstrate financial responsibility or administrative capability may result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. All Title IV Institutions are subject to meeting financial and administrative standards. These standards are assessed through annual compliance audits, periodic renewal of institutional PPAs, periodic program reviews and ad hoc events which may lead ED to evaluate an institution’s financial responsibility or administrative capability. The administrative capability criteria require, among other things, that our institutions (1) have an adequate number of qualified personnel to administer Title IV programs, (2) have adequate procedures for disbursing and safeguarding Title IV funds and for maintaining records, (3) submit all required reports and consolidated financial statements in a timely manner, and (4) not have significant problems that affect the institution’s ability to administer Title IV programs. If ED determines, in its judgment, that one of our institutions has failed to demonstrate either financial responsibility or administrative capability, we could be subject to sanctions, including, among other things, a requirement to post a letter of credit, fines, suspension or termination of our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or repayment of funds received under Title IV programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. ED has considerable discretion under the regulations to impose the foregoing sanctions and, in some cases, such sanctions could be imposed without advance notice or any prior right of review or appeal.. 33. If ED does not recertify any one of our institutions to continue participating in Title IV programs, students at that institution would lose their access to Title IV program funds. Alternatively, ED could recertify our institutions but require our institutions to accept significant limitations as a condition of their continued participation in Title IV programs.. ED certification to participate in Title IV programs lasts a maximum of six years, and institutions are thus required to seek recertification from ED on a regular basis in order to continue their participation in Title IV programs. An institution must also apply for recertification by ED if it undergoes a change in control, as defined by ED regulations.. Each of our Title IV Institutions operates under a PPA. There can be no assurance that ED will recertify an institution after its PPA expires or that ED will not limit the period of recertification to participate in Title IV programs to less than six years, place the institution on provisional certification or impose conditions or other restrictions on the institution as a condition of granting our application for recertification. If ED does not renew or withdraws the certification to participate in Title IV programs for one or more of our institutions at any time, students at such institution would no longer be able to receive Title IV program funds. Alternatively, ED could (1) renew the certifications for an institution, but restrict or delay receipt of Title IV funds, limit the number of students to whom an institution could disburse such funds or place other restrictions on that institution, or (2) delay recertification after an institution’s PPA expires, in which case the institution’s certification would continue on a month-to-month basis, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the institution or Adtalem as a whole and could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on the ability of the institution or Adtalem as a whole to operate.. If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation or if our institutional accrediting body loses recognition by ED, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs.. The loss of institutional accreditation by any of our schools would leave the affected school ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. In addition, an adverse action by any of our institutional accreditors other than loss of accreditation, such as issuance of a warning, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Increased scrutiny of accreditors by the Secretary of Education in connection with ED’s recognition process may result in increased scrutiny of institutions by accreditors or have other consequences.. If regulators do not approve, or delay their approval of, transactions involving a material change of ownership or change of control of our company, the eligibility of our institutions to participate in Title IV programs, our institutions’ accreditations and our institutions’ state licenses may be impaired in a manner that materially and adversely affects our business.. A material change of ownership or change of control of Adtalem, depending on the type of change, may have significant regulatory consequences for Chamberlain, AUC, RUSM, RUSVM, DeVry University and Carrington. Such a change of ownership or control could require recertification by ED, the reevaluation of accreditation by each institution’s accreditors and/or reauthorization by each institutions’ state licensing agencies. If Adtalem experiences a material change of ownership or change of control, then Chamberlain, AUC, RUSM, RUSVM, DeVry University and Carrington may cease to be eligible to participate in Title IV programs until recertified by ED. The continuing participation of each of Chamberlain, AUC, RUSM, RUSVM, DeVry University and Carrington in Title IV programs is critical to our business. Any disruption in an institution’s eligibility to participate in Title IV programs would materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. In addition, each Title IV Institution is required to report any material change in stock ownership to its principal institutional accrediting body and would generally be required to obtain approval prior to undergoing any transaction that affects, or may affect, its corporate control or governance. In the event of any such change, each of our institution’s accreditors may undertake an evaluation of the effect of the change on the continuing operations of our institution for purposes of determining if continued accreditation is appropriate, which evaluation may include a comprehensive review. If our accreditors determine that the change is such that prior approval was required, but was not obtained, many of our accreditors’ policies require the accreditor to consider withdrawal of accreditation. If accreditation is suspended or withdrawn with respect to any of our Title IV Institutions, they would not be eligible to participate in Title IV programs until the accreditation is reinstated or is obtained from another appropriate accrediting body. There is no assurance that reinstatement of accreditation could be obtained on a timely basis, if at all, and accreditation from a different qualified accrediting authority, if available, would require a significant amount of time. Any material disruption in accreditation would materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. 34. In addition, some states in which Chamberlain, AUC, RUSM, RUSVM, DeVry University and Carrington are licensed require approval (in some cases, advance approval) of changes in ownership or control in order to remain authorized to operate in those states, and participation in grant programs in some states may be interrupted or otherwise affected by a change in ownership or control.. As of June 30, 2018, a substantial portion of our outstanding capital stock is owned by a small group of institutional shareholders. We cannot prevent a material change of ownership or change of control that could arise from a transfer of voting stock by any combination of those shareholders.. A bankruptcy filing by us or by any of our Title IV Institutions, or a closure of one of our Title IV Institutions, would lead to an immediate loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. In the event of a bankruptcy filing by Adtalem, all of our Title IV Institutions would lose their eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, pursuant to statutory provisions of the HEA, notwithstanding the automatic stay provisions of federal bankruptcy law, which would make any reorganization difficult to implement. Similarly, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by any of Adtalem’s subsidiaries that own a Title IV Institution, such institution would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. In the event of any bankruptcy affecting one or more of our Title IV Institutions, ED could hold our other Title IV Institutions jointly liable for any Title IV program liabilities, whether asserted or unasserted at the time of such bankruptcy, of the institution whose Title IV program eligibility was terminated.. Further, in the event that an institution closes and fails to pay liabilities or other amounts owed to ED, ED can attribute the liabilities of that institution to other institutions under common ownership. If any one of our Title IV Institutions were to close or have unpaid ED liabilities, ED could seek to have those liabilities repaid by one of our other Title IV Institutions.. Student loan defaults could result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. Our U.S. degree-granting institutions may lose their eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if their student loan default rates are greater than standards set by ED. An educational institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs, if, for three consecutive federal fiscal years, 30% or more of its students who were required to begin repaying their student loans in the relevant federal fiscal year default on their payment by the end of the next two federal fiscal years. In addition, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if its default rate for a federal fiscal year was greater than 40%. If any of our U.S. degree-granting institutions lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because of high student loan default rates, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. Our schools could lose their eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of their revenue derived from those programs were too high.. Our U.S. degree-granting institutions may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if, on a cash basis, the percentage of the institution’s revenue derived from Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years is greater than 90% (the “90/10 Rule”). Further, if an institution exceeds the 90% threshold for any single fiscal year, ED could place that institution on provisional certification status for the institution’s following two fiscal years. If any of our U.S. degree-granting institutions lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because they are unable to comply with ED’s 90/10 Rule, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. Our failure to comply with ED’s credit hour rule could result in sanctions and other liability.. In 2009 and 2010, ED’s Office of Inspector General criticized three accreditors, including the Higher Learning Commission (“HLC”), which is the accreditor for Chamberlain and DeVry University, for deficiency in their oversight of institutions’ credit hour allocations. In June 2010, the House Education and Labor Committee held a hearing concerning accrediting agencies’ standards for assessing institutions’ credit hour policies. The 2010 Program Integrity Regulations defined the term “credit hour” for the first time and required accrediting agencies to review the reliability and accuracy of an institution’s credit hour assignments. If an accreditor does not comply with this requirement, its recognition by ED could be jeopardized. If an accreditor identifies systematic or significant noncompliance in one or more of an institution’s programs, the accreditor must notify the Secretary of Education. If ED determines that an institution is out of compliance with the credit hour definition, ED could impose liabilities or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operation and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. 35. If we fail to maintain any of our state authorizations, we would lose our ability to operate in that state and to participate in Title IV programs in the state.. Institutions that participate in Title IV programs must be authorized to operate by the appropriate postsecondary regulatory authority in each state in which the institution is located. Campuses of our U.S. degree-granting institutions are authorized to operate and grant degrees, diplomas or certificates by the applicable education agency of the state in which each such campus is located. Many states are currently reevaluating and revising their authorization regulations, especially as applied to distance education. The loss of state authorization would, among other things, render the affected school ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, at least at those state campus locations, and otherwise limit that school’s ability to operate in that state. Loss of authorization in one or more states could increase the likelihood of additional scrutiny and potential loss of operating and/or degree-granting authority in other states in which we operate, which would further impact our business. If these pressures and uncertainty continue in the future, or if one or more of our institutions are unable to offer programs in one or more states, it could have a material adverse impact on our enrollment, revenue, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. Our ability to place our medical schools’ students in hospitals in the U.S. may be limited by efforts of certain state government regulatory bodies, which may limit the growth potential of our medical schools, put our medical schools at a competitive disadvantage to other medical schools or force our medical schools to substantially reduce their class sizes.. Each of AUC and RUSM enter into affiliation agreements with hospitals across the U.S. to place their third and fourth year students in clinical programs at such hospitals. Certain states with regulatory programs that require state approval of clinical education programs have in recent years precluded, limited or imposed onerous requirements on Adtalem’s entry into affiliation agreements with hospitals in their states. If these or other states continue to limit access to affiliation arrangements, our medical schools may be at a competitive disadvantage to other medical schools, and our medical schools may be required to substantially restrict their enrollment due to limited clinical opportunities for enrolled students. The impact on enrollment, and the potential for enrollment growth, of such restrictions on our medical schools’ clinical placements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operation and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce the amount of such financial aid that is available to our students, which could reduce our enrollment and adversely affect our 90/10 Rule percentage.. Some states are experiencing budget deficits and constraints. Some of these states have reduced or eliminated various student financial assistance programs or established minimum performance measures as a condition of participation, and additional states may do so in the future. If our students who receive this type of assistance cannot secure alternate sources of funding, they may be forced to withdraw, reduce the rate at which they seek to complete their education or replace the source with more expensive forms of funding, such as private loans, which will have a negative impact on debt measurements such as our GE disclosures and cohort default rate. Other students who would otherwise have been eligible for state financial assistance may not be able to enroll without such aid. This reduced funding could decrease our enrollment and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, the reduction or elimination of these non-Title IV sources of student funding may adversely affect our 90/10 Rule measurement.. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to calculate accurately and make timely payment of refunds of Title IV program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational program.. The HEA and ED regulations require us to calculate refunds of unearned Title IV program funds disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational program. If refunds are not properly calculated or timely paid, we may be required to post a letter of credit with ED or be subject to sanctions or other adverse actions by ED, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.. 36. A failure of our vendors to comply with applicable regulations in the servicing of our students and institutions could subject us to fines or restrictions on or loss of our ability to participate in Title IV programs.. We contract with unaffiliated entities for student software systems and services related to the administration of portions of our Title IV and institutional loan programs. Because each of our schools is jointly and severally liable for the actions of third-party servicers and vendors, failure of such servicers to comply with applicable regulations could have a material adverse effect on our schools, including fines and the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, revenue and results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. If any of our third party servicers discontinues providing such services to us, we may not be able to replace such third party servicer in a timely, cost-efficient or effective manner, or at all, and we could lose our ability to comply with collection, lending and Title IV requirements, which could have a material adverse effect our enrollment, revenue and results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. We provide financing programs to assist some of our students in affording our educational offerings. These programs are subject to various federal and state rules and regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to fines, penalties, obligations to discharge loans and other injunctive requirements.. If we, or one of the companies that service our loans, do not comply with laws applicable to the financing programs that assist our students in affording our educational offerings, including Truth in Lending and Fair Debt Collections Practices laws and the Unfair, Deceptive or Abusive Acts or Practices provisions of Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act, we could be subject to fines, penalties, obligations to discharge loans and other injunctive requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Additionally, an adverse allegation, finding or outcome in any of these matters could also materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain, obtain or renew licenses, approvals or accreditation and maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or serve as a basis for ED to discharge certain Title IV student loans and seek recovery for some or all of its resulting losses from us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. Release of confidential information could subject us to civil penalties or cause us to lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. As an educational institution participating in federal and state student assistance programs and collecting financial receipts from enrollees or their sponsors, we collect and retain certain confidential information. Such information is subject to federal and state privacy and security rules, including the Family Education Right to Privacy Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act. Release or failure to secure confidential information or other noncompliance with these rules could subject us to fines, loss of our capacity to conduct electronic commerce and loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to accurately and timely report sponsored students’ tuition, fees and enrollment to the sponsoring agency.. A significant portion of our enrollment is sponsored through various federal and state supported agencies and programs, including the Department of Defense, the U. S. Department of Labor and the Department of Veterans Affairs. We are required to periodically report tuition, fees and enrollment to the sponsoring agencies. As a recipient of funds, we are subject to periodic reviews and audits. Inaccurate or untimely reporting could result in suspension or termination of our eligibility to participate in these federal and state programs and have a material adverse impact on enrollment and revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Adtalem’s enrollment may be adversely affected by presentations of data that are not representative of actual educational costs for our prospective students.. ED and other public policy organizations are concerned with the affordability of higher education and have developed various tools and resources to help students find low-cost educational alternatives. These resources primarily rely on and present data for first-time, full-time residential students, which is not representative of most prospective Adtalem students. These presentations may influence some prospective students to exclude Adtalem institutions from their consideration, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 37. Restrictions or limitations on the government-supported student loan and scholarship programs in Brazil could have a material and adverse impact on Adtalem Brazil’s ability to attract and retain students and execute its plans for organic and inorganic growth.. Adtalem Brazil students are eligible for loans under Brazil’s FIES public loan program (“Fundo de Financiamento Estudantil” or “Students Financing Fund”), which is financed by the Brazilian government. Adtalem Brazil also participates in PROUNI (“Programa Universidade para Todos” or “University for All Program”), a Brazilian governmental program, which provides scholarships to a portion of its undergraduate students under certain conditions. As of June 30, 2018, approximately 21% of Adtalem Brazil’s degree-seeking students have obtained financing under the FIES program while approximately 23% have obtained scholarships under the PROUNI program. Without prior notice, during fiscal year 2015, the Brazilian government enacted changes to the FIES regulations limiting student eligibility for FIES funding and extending the government’s time to pay participating institutions. Restrictions or limitations on the FIES public loan program or student scholarships under the PROUNI program could have a material and adverse impact on Adtalem Brazil’s ability to attract and retain students and execute its plans for organic and inorganic growth, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to Adtalem’s Business. Student enrollment at our schools is affected by legislative, regulatory and economic factors that may change in ways we cannot predict. These factors outside our control limit our ability to assess our future enrollment effectively.. Adtalem’s future revenue and growth depend on a number of factors, including many of the regulatory risks discussed above and business risks discussed below. DeVry University and Carrington have experienced reduced new student enrollment in recent periods. Despite ongoing efforts to provide more scholarships to prospective students, and to increase quality and build our reputation, negative perceptions of the value of a college degree from one of our institutions, increased reluctance to take on debt and the resulting lower student consumer confidence may continue to impact enrollment in the future. In addition, technological innovations in the delivery of low-cost education alternatives and increased competition continue to negatively affect enrollment. Until legislative, regulatory and market uncertainty are resolved, it may be difficult to assess whether and to what extent our long-term revenue and growth prospects may be impacted.. Adtalem is subject to risks relating to enrollment of students. If Adtalem is not able to continue to successfully recruit and retain its students, it will not be able to sustain or grow revenue.. Adtalem’s undergraduate and graduate educational programs are concentrated in selected areas of technology, healthcare, law and business. If applicant career interests or employer needs shift away from these fields, and we do not anticipate or adequately respond to that trend, future enrollment and revenue may decline and the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could fall.. If our graduates are unable to find appropriate employment opportunities, we may not be able to recruit new students.. If employment opportunities for Adtalem graduates in fields related to their educational programs decline, future enrollment and revenue may decline as potential applicants choose to enroll at other educational institutions or providers offering different courses of study.. We face heightened competition in the postsecondary education market from both public and private educational institutions.. Postsecondary education in our existing and new market areas is highly competitive and is becoming increasingly so. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges, other proprietary schools and alternatives to higher education. Some of our competitors, both public and private, have greater financial and nonfinancial resources than us. Some of our competitors, both public and private, are able to offer programs similar to ours at a lower tuition level for a variety of reasons, including the availability of direct and indirect government subsidies, government and foundation grants, large endowments, tax-deductible contributions and other financial resources not available to proprietary institutions, or by providing fewer student services or larger class sizes. An increasing number of traditional colleges and community colleges are offering distance learning and other online education programs, including programs that are geared towards the needs of working adults. This trend has been accelerated by private companies that provide and/or manage online learning platforms for traditional colleges and community colleges. As the proportion of traditional colleges providing alternative learning modalities increases, we will face increasing competition for students from traditional colleges, including colleges with well-established reputations for excellence. As the online and distance learning segment of the postsecondary education market matures, we believe that the intensity of the competition we face will continue to increase. This intense competition could make it more challenging for us to enroll students who are likely to succeed in our educational programs, which could adversely affect our new student enrollment levels and student persistence and put downward pressure on our tuition rates, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 38. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations.. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. We collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our students and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees and contractors in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Confidential information also may become available to third parties inadvertently when we integrate or convert computer networks into our network following an acquisition of a school or in connection with system upgrades from time to time.. Due to the sensitive nature of the information contained on our networks, such as students’ financial information and grades, our networks may be targeted by hackers. Anyone who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary or confidential information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. We cannot assure that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our students and their families or our employees or contractors that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in liability under state and federal privacy statutes and legal actions by federal or state authorities and private litigants, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our computer network or information systems could severely impact our ability to serve our existing students and attract new students.. The performance and reliability of our computer networks and system applications, especially online educational platforms and student operational and financial aid packaging applications, are critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain students. System errors, disruptions or failures, including those arising from unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other security threats, could adversely impact Adtalem’s delivery of educational content to its online students or result in delays and/or errors in processing student financial aid and related disbursements. Such events could have a material adverse effect on the reputation of our institutions, our financial conditions, results of operation and cash flows. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against system errors, failures or disruptions, or the threat of security breaches, or to repair or otherwise mitigate problems caused by any actual errors, disruptions, failures or breaches. We cannot ensure that these efforts will protect our computer networks, or fully mitigate the resulting impact of interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, despite our regular monitoring of our technology infrastructure security and business continuity plans.. Government regulations relating to the internet could increase our cost of doing business and affect our ability to grow.. The use of the internet and other online services has led to and may lead to the adoption of new laws and regulations in the U.S. or foreign countries and to new interpretations of existing laws and regulations. These new laws, regulations and interpretations may relate to issues such as online privacy, copyrights, trademarks and service marks, sales taxes, value-added taxes, withholding taxes, cost of internet access and services, allocation and apportionment of income amongst various state, local and foreign jurisdictions, fair business practices and the requirement that online education institutions qualify to do business as foreign corporations or be licensed in one or more jurisdictions where they have no physical location or other presence. New laws, regulations or interpretations related to doing business over the internet could increase our costs and materially and adversely affect our enrollment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 39. Natural disasters or other extraordinary events or political disruptions may cause us to close some of our schools.. Adtalem may experience business interruptions resulting from natural disasters, inclement weather, transit disruptions, political disruptions or other events in one or more of the geographic areas in which it operates, particularly in the West Coast and Gulf States of the U.S., the Caribbean and Brazil. These events could cause Adtalem to close schools — temporarily or permanently — and could affect student recruiting opportunities in those locations, causing enrollment and revenue to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Adtalem’s ability to open new campuses, offer new programs and add capacity is dependent on regulatory approvals and requires financial and human resources.. As part of its strategy, Adtalem intends to open new campuses, offer new educational programs and add capacity to certain existing locations. Such actions require Adtalem to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals. In addition, adding new locations, programs and capacity may require significant financial investments and human resource capabilities. The failure to obtain appropriate approvals or to properly allocate financial and human resources could adversely impact Adtalem’s future growth.. We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key employees necessary for our operations and the successful execution of our strategic plans.. Adtalem may be unable to attract, retain and develop key employees with appropriate educational qualifications and experience. Regulatory and other legal actions and the claims contained in these actions may have diminished our reputation, and these actions and the resulting negative publicity may have decreased interest by potential employees. In addition, Adtalem may be unable to effectively plan and prepare for changes in key employees. Such matters may cause Adtalem to incur higher wage expense and/or provide less student support and customer service, which could adversely affect enrollment, revenue and expense. A significant amount of our compensation for key employees is tied to our financial performance. We may require new employees in order to execute some of our strategic plans. Uncertainty regarding our future financial performance may limit our ability to attract new employees with competitive compensation or increase our cost of recruiting and retaining such new employees.. Adtalem may not be able to successfully identify, pursue or integrate acquisitions.. As part of its strategy, Adtalem is actively considering acquisition opportunities in the U.S. and globally. Adtalem has acquired and expects to acquire additional education institutions or education related businesses that complement our strategic direction, some of which could be material to our operations. Any acquisition involves significant risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to:. ·Inability to successfully integrate the acquired operations and personnel into our institutions and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures;. ·Failure to secure applicable regulatory approvals;. ·Assumption of known and unknown liabilities;. ·Diversion of significant attention of our senior management from day-to-day operations;. ·Issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including compliance issues, commitments and/or contingencies; and. ·Financial commitments, investments in foreign countries and compliance with debt covenants and ED financial responsibility scores.. 40. Proposed changes in, or lapses of, U.S. tax laws regarding earnings from international operations could adversely affect our financial results.. Our effective tax rate could be subject to volatility or be adversely impacted by changes to federal tax laws governing the taxation of foreign earnings of U.S. based companies. For example, as a consequence of the newly enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”), the cumulative foreign earnings are now deemed to be repatriated, resulting in a higher effective tax rate for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. In addition, recent changes to U.S. tax laws will significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Numerous countries are evaluating their existing tax laws, due in part to recommendations made by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (“OECD’s”) Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) project. To address the impact of the recent U.S. tax law changes, we recorded a provisional tax amount of $96.3 million for the one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of foreign earnings; $4.9 million to record the impact of the reduction in tax rates on our net deferred tax asset position; and $2.7 million for state income and foreign withholding taxes on undistributed foreign earnings that are no longer intended to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. We are still evaluating the tax provisions related to Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”), and we have not made a policy election on how to account for the GILTI provisions of the Tax Act as allowed by the U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Our selection of an accounting policy with respect to the new GILTI tax rules will depend, in part, on analyzing our global income to determine whether we expect to have future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI and, if so, what the impact is expected to be. In addition, the recent U.S. tax law changes are subject to further interpretations from U.S. federal and state governments and regulatory organizations, such as the Treasury Department and/or Internal Revenue Service, and this could change the provisional tax liability or the accounting treatment of the provisional tax liability based on updated guidance and interpretations. A significant portion of the additional provisions for income taxes we have made due to the enactment of the Tax Act is payable by us over a period of up to eight years. As a result, our cash flows from operating activities will be adversely impacted until the additional tax provisions are paid in full. In addition, Adtalem has benefitted from the ability to enter into international intercompany arrangements without incurring U.S. taxation due to a law, which expires in fiscal year 2020, deferring U.S. taxation of “foreign personal holding company income” such as foreign income from dividends, interest, rents and royalties. If this law is not extended, or a similar law adopted, our consolidated tax provision would be impacted beginning in our fiscal year 2021, and we may not be able to allocate international capital optimally without realizing U.S. income taxes, which would increase our effective income tax rate and adversely impact our earnings and cash flows.. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results.. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of or lapses in various tax law provisions; tax treatment of stock-based compensation; costs related to intercompany or other restructurings; or other changes in tax rates, laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we have accrued tax and related interest for potential adjustments to tax liabilities for prior years, there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have a material effect, either positive or negative, on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Adtalem may experience movements in foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our operating results.. As Adtalem expands internationally, Adtalem will conduct more transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The volume of transactions in the various foreign currencies could continue to increase, thus increasing Adtalem’s exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The financial position and results of operations of Adtalem’s investment in Adtalem Brazil are measured using the Brazilian Real as the functional currency. Brazilian-based assets constitute a material portion of Adtalem’s overall assets, and Brazilian-based liabilities constitute a material portion of Adtalem’s overall liabilities. Significant devaluations in the Brazilian Real will result in a significant devaluation in relation to the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Expansion into new international markets will subject Adtalem to risks inherent in international operations.. As part of its strategy, Adtalem has acquired and intends to acquire or establish additional educational operations outside of the U.S. To the extent that Adtalem expands internationally, Adtalem will face risks that are inherent in international operations including, but not limited to:. ·Compliance with foreign laws and regulations;. ·Management of internal operations;. ·Currency exchange rate fluctuations;. ·Ability to protect intellectual property;. ·Monetary policy risks, such as inflation, hyperinflation and deflation;. ·Price controls or restrictions on exchange of foreign currencies;. 41. ·Political and economic instability in the countries in which Adtalem operates;. ·Potential unionization of employees under local labor laws;. ·Multiple and possibly overlapping and conflicting tax laws;. ·Inability to cost effectively repatriate cash balances; and. ·Compliance with U.S. laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. A delayed or unsuccessful sale of DeVry University could have a material adverse effect on the stock valuation of Adtalem or may impact the growth prospects or financial resources of Adtalem.. Adtalem has entered into a binding stock purchase agreement (the “SPA”) to sell DeVry University to Cogswell Education, LLC (“Cogswell” and such sale, the “DeVry Transaction”). Adtalem’s transfer of ownership of DeVry University to Cogswell is subject to numerous customary and other closing conditions, including the absence of certain conditions or restrictions in ED’s response to the pre-acquisition review application filed by DeVry University and the receipt of approvals or consents from regulators and accrediting bodies, including the HLC. There is no assurance that the conditions to closing will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all.. Additionally, Cogswell may terminate the SPA prior to the closing of the DeVry Transaction in certain circumstances, including in the event that ED’s response to the pre-acquisition review application filed by DeVry University contains certain conditions or restrictions, DeVry University’s enrollment declines below a certain threshold, claims of former DeVry University students under ED’s Defense to Repayment Regulations exceed a certain threshold, HLC fails or declines to take action to approve the DeVry Transaction prior to June 30, 2018 or the conditions to closing have not been met prior to January 19, 2019 (subject to each party’s right to extend such date for an additional 90 days under certain conditions). As of June 30, 2018, HLC did not take action to approve the DeVry Transaction.. If the DeVry Transaction is not completed, the valuation of Adtalem common stock may materially and adversely decline.. In addition, the separation of DeVry University from Adtalem is a substantial undertaking that requires, among other things, hiring employees and contracting for services for DeVry University in replacement of previously shared resources prior to closing the DeVry Transaction. In the event that the DeVry Transaction is delayed, the expenses of the separation, including additional personnel costs, may materially increase, which could materially impact Adtalem’s available cash.. A delayed or unsuccessful sale of Carrington could have a material adverse effect on the stock valuation of Adtalem or may impact the growth prospects or financial resources of Adtalem.. Adtalem has entered into a binding Membership Interest Purchase Agreement (the “MIPA”) to sell Carrington to San Joaquin Valley College, Inc. (“SJVC”) (the “Carrington Transaction”). Adtalem’s transfer of ownership of Carrington to SJVC is subject to certain customary and other closing conditions, including the absence of certain conditions or restrictions in ED’s response to the pre-acquisition review application filed by Carrington and the receipt of approvals or consents from regulators and accrediting bodies, including the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges (“ACCJC”). There is no assurance that the conditions to closing will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all.. Additionally, SJVC may terminate the MIPA prior to the closing of the Carrington Transaction in certain circumstances, including in the event that ED’s response to the pre-acquisition review application filed by Carrington contains certain conditions or restrictions or the conditions to closing have not been met prior to December 31, 2018 (subject to each party’s right to extend such date for an additional 90 days under certain conditions).. If the Carrington Transaction is not completed, the valuation of Adtalem common stock may materially and adversely decline.. Adtalem’s goodwill and intangible assets potentially could be impaired if our business results and financial condition were materially and adversely impacted by risks and uncertainties.. Adtalem’s market capitalization can be affected by, among other things, changes in industry or market conditions, changes in results of operations and changes in forecasts or market expectations related to future results. If Adtalem’s market capitalization were to remain below its carrying value for a sustained period of time or if such a decline becomes indicative that the fair values of the Adtalem reporting units have declined below their carrying values, an impairment test may result in a non-cash impairment charge. At June 30, 2018, intangible assets from business combinations totaled $362.9 million and goodwill totaled $813.9 million. Together, these assets equaled 50% of total assets as of such date. If Adtalem’s business results and financial condition were materially and adversely impacted, then such intangible assets and goodwill could be impaired, requiring a possible write-off of up to $362.9 million of intangible assets and up to $813.9 million of goodwill.. 42"
