[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Report when evaluating our business and financial condition and an investment in our common stock.  Should any of the following risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, such developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. 15. Our businesses face significant competition in the industries in which they operate.. Many of our products and services face direct competition from companies offering similar products or services.  Competition can place downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins.  Intense competition is expected to continue in these markets.  If we are unable to realize our objectives, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our profits.. In the water and wastewater rehabilitation portion of our Infrastructure Solutions segment, we face competition from companies providing similar products and services as well as companies providing other methods of rehabilitation that we do not offer, including traditional dig-and-replace, which is still the preferred method in the water rehabilitation market.  In the trenchless wastewater rehabilitation market, CIPP is one of the preferred methods.  In this market, few significant barriers to entry exist and, as a result, any organization that has the financial resources and access to technical expertise and bonding may become a competitor.  As such, we compete with many smaller firms on a local or regional level and with several larger firms on the global and national levels.  In water rehabilitation, where there are more significant barriers to entry because the market is strictly regulated, we compete with a smaller number of specialty contractors around the world.  Further, our Fusible PVC® pipe products compete against other more traditional products, such as HDPE and restrained joint PVC pipe products.. In the infrastructure rehabilitation portion of our Infrastructure Solutions segment, the Tyfo® system competes against traditional methods of structural retrofitting.  There are significant barriers to entry, including testing requirements, experience, intellectual property and certifications.  In manufacturing, we only compete with a handful of FRP suppliers.  However, with respect to installation, we compete with a number of FRP applicators.  Our ability to grow revenues in this market could be adversely impacted if any of our competitors were to become fully-integrated like us or if new entrants in the market were to develop strong installation and manufacturing expertise.. In our Corrosion Protection platform, we compete primarily with a small number of global and national companies in the pipe coating industry, specialty firms in the pipeline protection industry, a limited number of large firms globally and a large number of smaller firms regionally in the cathodic protection industry.  In addition, customers can select a variety of methods to meet their pipe installation, rehabilitation, coating and cathodic protection needs, including methods that we do not offer.. In our Energy Services platform, we compete with a limited number of local, regional and national companies in the oil and gas procurement, construction, maintenance, scaffolding and turnaround industries on the U.S. West Coast.. Our business depends upon the maintenance of our proprietary technologies and information.. We depend on our proprietary technologies and information, many of which are no longer subject to patent protection.  We rely principally upon trade secret and copyright laws to protect our proprietary technologies.  We regularly enter into confidentiality agreements with our key employees, customers, potential customers and other third parties and limit access to and distribution of our trade secrets and other proprietary information.  However, these measures may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technologies or to assure that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies.  In addition, the laws of other countries in which we operate may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.  We are also subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement of intellectual property rights.. Our efforts to develop new products and services or enhance existing products and services involve substantial research, development and marketing expenses, and the resulting new or enhanced products or services may not generate sufficient revenues to justify such expenses.. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing technologies and customer requirements by enhancing our existing products and services.  We will need to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products, features and services that address the needs of our customer base.  As a result of these efforts, we may be required to expend substantial research, development and marketing resources, and the time and expense required to develop a new product or service or enhance an existing product or service are difficult to predict.  We cannot assure that we will succeed in developing, introducing and marketing new products or services or product or service enhancements.  In addition, we cannot be certain that any new or enhanced product or service will generate sufficient revenues to justify the expenses and resources devoted to this product development and enhancement effort.. Acquisitions and investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Acquisitions are an element of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations.  We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions.  The process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology has created, and will continue to create, unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures.  The areas where we face risks include:. 16. • Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges.. • Failure to successfully operate and further develop the acquired business or technology.. • Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company.. • Integration of the acquired company's accounting, human resource and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering and sales and marketing functions.. • Transition of operations, users and customers onto our existing platforms.. • Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval, under competition and antitrust laws which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition.. • In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.. • Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire.. • Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities.. • Assumption of contracts with terms, including, without limitation, terms relating to liability, waiver of damages and indemnification, that are not in line with our normal contracting practices.. • Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties.. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.. Our acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption of contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, impairment of goodwill and purchased long-lived assets and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or results of operations.  Also, the anticipated benefit of many of our acquisitions may not materialize for reasons separate and apart from the specific risks set forth above.. We may be liable to complete the work of our joint venture partners under our joint venture arrangements.. We enter into contractual joint ventures in order to develop joint bids on certain contracts.  The success of these joint ventures depends largely on the satisfactory performance by our joint venture partners of their obligations with respect to the joint venture.  Under these joint venture arrangements, we may be required to complete our joint venture partner's portion of the contract if the joint venture partner is unable to complete its portion and a bond is not available.  In such case, the additional obligations could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us.. Our backlog is an uncertain indicator of our future earnings.. Our backlog, which at December 31, 2017 was approximately $692.4 million, is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellation.  The revenues projected in this backlog may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in profits.  We may be unable to complete some projects included in our backlog in the estimated time and, as a result, such projects could remain in backlog for extended periods of time.  To the extent that we experience project cancellation or scope adjustments, we could face a reduction in the dollar amount of our backlog and the revenues that we actually receive from such backlog.  In addition, one or more of our multi-year contracts have in the past and may in the future contribute a material portion of our backlog in any one year.  The loss of business from any one of these significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments, which are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and which may differ from actual results.. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  Some accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by management in selecting the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates.  By their nature, these estimates and judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and actual results may differ from these. 17. estimates and judgments under different assumptions or conditions, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in subsequent periods.. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded results.. We employ the percentage-of-completion method of accounting for our construction projects.  This methodology recognizes revenues and profits over the life of a project based on costs incurred to date compared to total estimated project costs.  Revisions to revenues and profits are made once amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated.  Given the uncertainties associated with some of our contracts, it is possible for actual costs to vary from estimates previously made.  Revisions to estimates could result in the reversal of revenues and gross profit previously recognized.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 67% of our revenues were derived from percentage-of-completion accounting.. We may experience cost overruns on our projects.. We conduct a significant portion of our business under guaranteed maximum price or fixed price contracts, where we bear a significant portion of the risk for cost overruns.  Under such contracts, prices are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates, which are based on a number of assumptions, including assumptions about future economic conditions, prices and availability of materials and other exigencies.  Our profitability depends heavily on our ability to make accurate estimates.  Inaccurate estimates, or changes in other circumstances, such as unanticipated technical problems, difficulties obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, cost of raw materials, currency fluctuations or our suppliers' or subcontractors' inability to perform could result in substantial losses, as such changes adversely affect the revenues and gross profit recognized on each project.. Our recognition of revenues from change orders, extra work or variations in the scope of work could be subject to reversal in future periods.. We recognize revenues from change orders, extra work or variations in the scope of work as set forth in our written contracts with our clients when management believes that realization of these revenues is probable and the recoverable amounts can be reasonably estimated.  We also factor in all other information that we possess with respect to the change order to determine whether the change order should be recognized at all and, if recognition is appropriate, what dollar amount of the change order should be recognized.  Due to factors that we may not anticipate at the time of recognition, however, revenues ultimately received on these change orders could be less than revenues that we recognized in a prior reporting period or periods, which could require us in subsequent reporting periods to reduce or reverse revenues and gross profit previously recognized.. We may incur significant costs in providing services in excess of original project scope without having an approved change order.. After commencement of a contract, we may perform, without the benefit of an approved change order from the customer, additional services requested by the customer that were not contemplated in our contract price for various reasons, including customer changes, incomplete or inaccurate engineering, changes in project specifications and other similar information provided to us by the customer.  Our construction contracts generally require the customer to compensate us for additional work or expenses incurred under these circumstances.. A failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record in the current period an adjustment to revenues and profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method.  Any such adjustments, if substantial, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly for the period in which such adjustments are made.  We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, approved change orders in an amount adequate to compensate us for our additional work or expenses.. Cyclical downturns in the mining, oil and natural gas industries, including a substantial or extended decline in the price of mined minerals, oil or natural gas, or in the oil field, refinery and mining services businesses, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. The mining, oil and natural gas industries are highly cyclical. Demand for the majority of the oil field, refinery and mining products and services provided by our Corrosion Protection and Energy Services platforms are substantially dependent on the level of expenditures by the mining, oil and natural gas industries for the exploration, development and production of mined minerals, crude oil and natural gas reserves, which are sensitive to the prices of these commodities and generally dependent on the industry's view of future mined mineral, oil and natural gas prices. The prices of these commodities can be volatile. There are numerous factors affecting the related industries and, thereby, the supply of, and demand for, our products and services, which include, but are not limited to:. • market prices of mined minerals, oil and natural gas and expectations about future prices;. • cost of producing mined minerals, oil and natural gas;. 18. • the level of mining, drilling and production activity;. • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves;. • mergers, consolidations and downsizing among our clients;. • coordination by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC);. • the output and willingness to export of certain oil-producing countries;. • the impact of commodity prices on the expenditure levels of our clients;. • financial condition of our client base and their ability to fund capital and maintenance expenditures;. • adverse weather conditions;. • political instability in oil-producing countries;. • tax incentives, including for alternative energy sources;. • domestic and worldwide economic conditions;. • weather conditions that can affect mining, oil or natural gas operations over a wide area;. • availability of energy sources other than oil and gas;. • level of consumption of minerals, oil, natural gas and petrochemicals by consumers, including the effects of increased regulation, conservation measures and technological advances affecting energy consumption; and. • availability of services and materials for our clients to grow their capital expenditures.. As seen in the historic high volatility in crude oil prices and other energy commodities, prices for mined minerals, oil and natural gas are subject to periodic downturns and large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of other factors (including those set forth above) that are beyond our control, and we expect such prices to continue to be volatile.  Demand for the products and services we provide could decrease in the event of a sustained reduction in demand for mined minerals, oil or natural gas, while perceptions of long-term decline in the prices of mined materials, oil and natural gas by mining, oil and gas companies (some of our customers) can similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale projects or result in downward pressure on the prices we charge.  As such, a significant downturn in the mining, oil and/or natural gas industries could result in a reduction in demand for our mining, oil field and refinery services and could adversely affect our operating results.  Additionally, the volatility of such prices and the resulting effects are difficult to predict, which reduces our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to changing conditions.. Our operations could be adversely impacted by the continuing effects from the U.S. government regulations on offshore drilling projects.. In response to the Deepwater Horizon incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in April 2010, the U.S. government implemented various new regulations intended to improve offshore drilling safety and environmental protection and increase liability for oil spills in the federal waters of the outer continental shelf.  These new regulations increased the complexity of the drilling permit process and have delayed the receipt of drilling permits in both deepwater and shallow-water areas since the incident, although there has been an increase in the number of drilling permits issued and drilling activity is recovering.. While the current U.S. federal government administration may be considering amending offshore drilling regulations, we cannot be certain that the regulations will be amended, nor can we predict what the continuing effects from the U.S. government regulations on offshore deepwater drilling projects may have on offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity, or what actions may be taken by our customers in our Corrosion Protection segment or other industry participants in response to these regulations.  This could reduce demand for our services, which could have an adverse impact on certain aspects of our business.. Our operations could be adversely impacted by the California Refinery Safety Law related to downstream work performed in California refineries.. Aegion Energy Services continues to face challenges with the impacts of the California Refinery Safety Law, which went into effect on January 1, 2014.  The law introduced new requirements for refineries and outside contractors at covered facilities when construction, alteration, demolition, installation, repair or maintenance work is performed at the covered facility.  The law imposes the following requirements:. • all subject workers must be paid the applicable prevailing wage rate;. • all subject workers must be either \"skilled journeymen\" or \"registered apprentices\"; and. • at least 60% of skilled journeypersons on the project must be graduates of certified apprenticeship programs.. 19. The effect of the California Refinery Safety Law is to require the use of building trade union contractors or refinery owners or operators to perform the covered work.. These requirements only pertain to contracts entered into, extended or renewed after January 1, 2014.  Contracts entered into, extended or renewed prior to that date generally will expire in 2018 across the industry.  Aegion Energy Services currently has long-term contracts in place with many of its major downstream clients, which it is attempting to maintain through its building trade union entity.  There are no assurances that customers will maintain their contracts with Aegion Energy Services, which could materially and adversely impact its revenues.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives as well as governmental reviews relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays that could adversely affect our Corrosion Protection customers.. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale plays.  Our Corrosion Protection segment services oil and gas companies in the shale plays and we foresee strong market opportunities here.  A decline in drilling of new wells and related servicing activities caused by these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.. The effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our business have not yet been fully analyzed and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Public Law No. 115-97, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\"), was signed into law on December 22, 2017.  The TCJA contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reducing the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, limiting the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of earnings (except for certain small businesses), limiting the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and eliminating net operating loss carrybacks, one-time taxing of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, eliminating U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediately deducting certain new investments instead of deducting depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits.  Information regarding the impacts of the TCJA consists of preliminary estimates which are forward-looking statements, is based on our current calculations, as well our current interpretations, assumptions and expectations relating to TCJA, and is subject to change, possibly materially, as we continue to analyze the impact of the TCJA.  The impacts of the legislation may differ from this estimate, possibly materially (and the amount of the impact on the Company may accordingly be adjusted over the course of 2018), due to guidance that may be issued, changes in interpretations and assumptions the Company has made, and actions the Company may take as a result of the TCJA.  While we will continue to examine the impact the TCJA may have on our business, the overall impact of the TCJA is uncertain, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. A general downturn in U.S. and global economic conditions, and specifically a downturn in the municipal bond market, may reduce our business prospects and decrease our revenues and cash flows.. Our business is affected by general economic conditions.  Any extended weakness in the U.S. and global economies could reduce our business prospects and could cause decreases in our revenues and operating cash flows.  Specifically, a downturn in the municipal bond market caused by an actual downgrade of monoline insurers could result in our municipal customers being required to spend municipal funds previously allocated to projects that would benefit our business to pay off outstanding bonds.. We conduct manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to a variety of risks associated with doing business outside the United States.. We maintain significant international operations, including operations in North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Australia, the Middle East, South America and Africa.  For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 24%, 24%, and 28%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from international operations.  We expect a significant portion of our revenues and profits to come from international operations and joint ventures for the foreseeable future and to continue to grow over time.. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks and complications associated with international manufacturing, sales, services and other operations.  These include:. • difficulties in enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and resolving disputes through some foreign legal systems;. • foreign customers with longer payment cycles than customers in the United States;. • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights or weaker intellectual property right protections in some countries;. • tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the United States and foreign earnings subject to withholding requirements;. 20. • tax laws that restrict our ability to use tax credits, offset gains or repatriate funds;. • tax laws that impose additional taxes on our operations, including the implementation of value added tax in certain countries in the Middle East;. • tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions, including transfer pricing restrictions, when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country;. • abrupt changes in foreign government policies and regulations;. • unsettled political conditions;. • acts of terrorism or criminality;. • kidnapping of employees;. • nationalization or privatization of companies with which we do business;. • protectionist policies in certain foreign countries, including those in the Middle East, that disfavor foreign companies operating in such countries;. • forced negotiation or modification of contracts;. • increased governmental ownership and regulation of markets in which we operate;. • the financial instability of, and the related inability or unwillingness to timely pay for our services by, national oil companies and other foreign customers resulting from, and/or exacerbated by, depressed oil prices;. • hostility from local populations, particularly in the Middle East;. • tenuous, unstable or hostile relationships between countries that are interconnected in our operations; and. • difficulties associated with compliance with a variety of laws and regulations governing international trade, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. To the extent that our international operations are affected by these unexpected and adverse foreign economic and political conditions, we may experience project disruptions and losses that could significantly reduce our revenues and profits.. Implementation and achievement of international growth objectives also may be impeded by political, social and economic uncertainties or unrest in countries in which we conduct operations or market or distribute our products.  In addition, compliance with multiple, and potentially conflicting, international laws and regulations, import and export limitations, anti-corruption laws and exchange controls may be difficult, burdensome or expensive.. For example, we are subject to compliance with various laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot provide assurance that our internal policies, procedures and controls will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics.  The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition and results of operations.. Operational disruptions caused by political instability and conflict in the Middle East, South America, Africa and Asia could adversely impact our current operations and plans of expansion in these regions.. Our Corrosion Protection segment currently operates in the Middle East, South America and Africa, and our Infrastructure Solutions segment currently operates in Asia.  Both segments continue to focus efforts on expansion in these regions.  Political instability and social unrest in the Middle East, South America, Africa and Asia, as well as the potential for catastrophic events such as abrupt political change, terrorist acts and conflicts or wars in these and other regions may cause damage or disruption to the economy, financial markets and our current and prospective customers in the these regions.  Political instability, conflicts and the potential for catastrophic events have contributed to, and will likely continue to contribute to, volatility in these regions, which could adversely affect our operations and operating results.. As a result of our operations and plans of expansion in the these regions, we are also exposed to certain other uncertainties not generally encountered in our U.S. operations, including those detailed in the risks detailed in the risk factor immediately above.. Business operations could be adversely affected by terrorism.. The threat of, or actual acts of, terrorism may affect our operations around the world in unpredictable ways and may force an increase in security measures and cause disruptions in supplies and markets.  If any of our facilities, including our manufacturing facilities, or if any of the projects we are working on, particularly in the energy and mining sector, were to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of an act of terrorism, our operations could be adversely affected.  Corresponding instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism also could adversely affect our ability to raise capital.. 21. International trade tariffs and restrictions in the steel market may adversely affect our Bayou business.. The business of our subsidiary, Bayou, is heavily dependent on providing products and services to customers that import steel pipe into the United States from the international markets.  To the extent that trade tariffs and other restrictions imposed by the United States increase the price of, or limit the amount of, steel pipe imported into the United States, the demand from Bayou's customers for Bayou's products and services will be diminished, which will adversely affect Bayou's revenues and profitability.. We have international operations that are subject to foreign economic uncertainties and foreign currency fluctuation.. Global financial and credit markets have been, and continue to be, unstable and unpredictable.  For example, the June 2016 referendum by British voters to exit the European Union (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\") has created significant uncertainties affecting the economy and business operations, including our operations, in the United Kingdom and the European Union.  While the United Kingdom is currently scheduled to depart the European Union on March 29, 2019, the terms of Brexit have not yet been confirmed, and as such, it is difficult to predict the effect of Brexit on our Company and our operations in the United Kingdom, including our operations in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, our manufacturing facility in Wellingborough, United Kingdom, which distributes liners to the European Union and elsewhere, and our manufacturing facility in Stockton-on-Tees, United Kingdom, which manufactures and distributes cathodic protection equipment world wide.  Brexit could, among other things, affect the legal and regulatory schemes to which our operations in the United Kingdom are subject, adversely affect trade between the United Kingdom and the European Union and continue to cause economic uncertainty. The instability of the markets and weakness of the economy could affect the demand for our services, the financial strength of our customers and suppliers, their ability or willingness to do business with us, our willingness to do business with them, and/or our suppliers' and customers' ability to fulfill their obligations to us and/or the ability of us, our customers or our suppliers to obtain credit.  These factors could adversely affect our operations, earnings and financial condition.. A significant portion of our contracts and revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, which may result in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange.  Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations.  Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could affect our profits.  For example, if there is another significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to the Euro, the Canadian dollar or the Australian dollar, it may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. An inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, and in particular, engineers, estimators, project managers, line workers, skilled craft workers and other experienced professionals, could impact our ability to perform on our contracts, which could harm our business and impair our future revenues and profitability.. Our ability to attract and retain qualified engineers, estimators, project managers, line workers, skilled craft workers and other experienced professionals in accordance with our needs is an important factor in our ability to maintain profitability and grow our business.  The market for these professionals is competitive, particularly during periods of economic growth when the supply is limited.  We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to retain or attract qualified personnel when needed.  Therefore, when we anticipate or experience growing demand for our services, we may incur additional cost to maintain a professional staff in excess of our current contract needs in an effort to have sufficient qualified personnel available to address this anticipated demand.  If we do incur additional compensation and benefit costs, our customer contracts may not allow us to pass through these costs.. Competent and experienced engineers, project managers and craft workers are especially critical to the profitable performance of our contracts, particularly on our fixed-price contracts where superior design or execution of the project can result in profits greater than originally estimated or where inferior design or project execution can reduce or eliminate estimated profits or even result in a loss.  Our project managers are involved in most aspects of contracting and contract execution including:. • supervising the bidding process, including providing estimates of significant cost components, such as material and equipment needs, and the size, productivity and composition of the workforce;. • negotiating contracts;. • supervising project performance, including performance by our employees, subcontractors and other third-party suppliers and vendors;. • estimating costs for completion of contracts that is used to estimate amounts that can be reported as revenues and earnings on the contract under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting;. • negotiating requests for change orders and the final terms of approved change orders; and. • determining and documenting claims by us for increased costs incurred due to the failure of customers, subcontractors and other third-party suppliers of equipment and materials to perform on a timely basis and in. 22. accordance with contract terms.. The California Refinery Safety Law, which requires owners and operators to use only building trade union contractors for covered work at the refineries (if not self-performed), has the potential to reduce the entire labor pool for refinery maintenance in California by: (i) eliminating the non-union workforce; and (ii) requiring the use of the same workforce that also performs public works and general construction in California.  This could adversely affect staffing for large turnaround projects at California refineries.  This could also adversely affect Energy Services' ability to support turnaround and project work outside California, due to its past reliance on its mobile California workforce to staff short term projects throughout the West Coast.  There will be a significant wage differential between high union wages in California and wages in other states on the West Coast, creating a large disincentive for the California workforce to leave the state.  All of the uncertainty created by this industry workforce change has the potential to negatively impact the entire West Coast refinery labor market, which in turn would negatively impact our revenues, profits and operations.. In addition, we use a multi-level sales force structured around target markets and key accounts, focusing on marketing our products and services to engineers, consultants, administrators, technical staff and elected officials.  We are dependent on our personnel to continue to develop improvements to our proprietary processes, including materials used and the methods of manufacturing, installing, strengthening, coating and cathodic protection and we require quality field personnel to effectively and profitably perform our work.  Our success in attracting and retaining qualified personnel is dependent on the resources available in individual geographic areas and the impact on the labor supply of general economic conditions, as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package and work environment.  Our failure to attract, train, integrate, engage and retain qualified personnel could have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our profitability could be negatively impacted if we are not able to maintain appropriate utilization of our workforce.. The extent to which we utilize our workforce affects our profitability.  If we under utilize our workforce, our project gross margins and overall profitability suffer in the short term.  If we over utilize our workforce, we may negatively impact safety, employee satisfaction and project execution, which could result in an increase in injuries to our employees and a decline of future project awards.  The utilization of our workforce is impacted by numerous factors including:. • our estimate of the headcount requirements for various units based on our forecast of the demand for our products and services;. • our ability to maintain our talent base and manage attrition;. • our ability to schedule our portfolio of projects to efficiently utilize our employees and minimize downtime between project assignments; and. • our need to invest time and resources into functions such as training, business development, employee recruiting, and sales that are not chargeable to customer projects.. Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages, staffing shortages and other labor matters.. As of December 31, 2017, our Aegion Energy Services business had approximately 1,300 employees that were represented by unions, although these numbers are constantly changing as customer demands change.  Infrastructure Solutions has approximately 150 employees represented by unions.  Although we believe that our relations with our employees and the unions are good, no assurances can be made that we will not experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees, or our employees in general, especially in the context of any future negotiations with our labor unions.  We can also make no assurance that future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in a significant increase in the cost of labor.  Approximately one-third of our Energy Services union employees currently participate in twenty-nine multi-employer benefit plans, which may increase in the future if more clients transition to using our building trade union contracting entity.  Participation in multi-employer benefit plans may result in liability to Aegion Energy Services in excess of that directly attributable to employees of Aegion Energy Services.. Additionally, the employees of some of our customers are unionized, especially the customers of our Aegion Energy Services business.  Any strikes, work stoppages or other labor matters experienced by our customers may impact our ability to work on projects and, as a result, have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The revenues from the water and wastewater portion of our Infrastructure Solutions platform are substantially dependent on municipal government spending.. Many of our customers are municipal governmental agencies and, as such, we are dependent on municipal spending.  Spending by our municipal customers can be affected by local political circumstances, budgetary constraints and other factors.  Consequently, future municipal spending may not be allocated to projects that would benefit our business or may not be allocated in the amounts or for the size of the projects that we anticipated.  A decrease in municipal spending on such projects would adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and cash flows.. 23. The loss of one or more of our significant customers could adversely affect us.. One or more customers have in the past and may in the future contribute a material portion of our revenues in any one year.  Because these significant customers generally contract with us for specific projects or for specific periods of time, we may lose these customers from year to year as the projects or maintenance contracts are completed.  The loss of business from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of third-party financing arrangements for our customers.. Tighter credit markets could adversely affect our customers' ability to secure the financing necessary to proceed or continue with pipe or other infrastructure installation, rehabilitation, strengthening, coating and cathodic protection projects.  Our customers' or potential customers' inability to secure financing for projects could result in the delay, cancellation or downsizing of new projects or the suspension of projects already under contract, which could cause a decline in the demand for our services and negatively impact our revenues and earnings.. A substantial portion of our raw materials is from a limited number of vendors, and we are subject to market fluctuations in the prices of certain commodities.. The primary products and raw materials used by our Corrpro operations include zinc, aluminum, magnesium and other metallic anodes, as well as wire and cable.  We believe that Corrpro has multiple sources available for these raw materials and is not dependent on any single vendor to meet its supply needs.  However, the prices of these raw materials have historically been affected by the prices of energy, petroleum, steel and other commodities, tariffs and duties on imported materials and foreign currency and exchange rates.  A significant increase in the prices of these raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations.. We purchase the majority of our fiber requirements for Insituform® tube manufacturing from two sources.  We believe, however, that alternate sources are readily available, and we continue to negotiate with other supply sources.  The manufacture of the Insituform® tubes used in our water and wastewater pipeline rehabilitation business is dependent upon the availability of resin, a petroleum-based product.  We currently have qualified four resin suppliers from which we intend to purchase the majority of our resin requirements for our North American operations.  For our European operations, we currently have qualified six resin suppliers, and we currently have qualified six resin suppliers for our Asia-Pacific operations.  We believe that these and other sources of resin supply are readily available.  Historically, resin prices have fluctuated on the basis of the prevailing prices of its inputs, including styrene and oil.  We anticipate that prices will continue to be heavily influenced by the events affecting these inputs, including the oil market.  If there is a shortage or contraction of fiber or resin suppliers or if the price of fiber or resin increase, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. The primary products and raw materials used by the infrastructure rehabilitation portion of our Infrastructure Solutions segment in the manufacture of FRP composite systems are carbon, glass, resins, fabric and epoxy raw materials.  Carbon and epoxies are the largest materials purchased, which are currently purchased through a select group of suppliers, although we believe these and the other materials are available from a number of vendors.  The price of epoxy historically is affected by the price of oil.  In addition, a number of factors such as worldwide demand, labor costs, energy costs, import duties and other trade restrictions may influence the price of these raw materials.  An increase in the price of these raw materials may have an adverse effect on our operations.  Further, because we utilize a limited number of extruders to toll manufacture our Fusible PVC® pipe products, we could be adversely affected if one or more of these extruders is unable to continue to toll manufacture our Fusible PVC® pipe products.. We also purchase a significant volume of fuel to operate our trucks and equipment.  At present, we do not engage in any type of hedging activities to mitigate the risks of fluctuating market prices for oil or fuel.  A significant increase in the price of oil could cause an adverse effect on our cost structure that we may not be able to recover from our customers.. Extreme weather conditions may adversely affect our operations.. We are likely to be impacted by weather extremes, such as excessive rain or hurricanes, tornadoes, typhoons, snow and ice or frigid temperatures, which may cause temporary, short-term anomalies in our operational performance in certain localized geographic regions.  Our Infrastructure Solutions segment is particularly sensitive to weather extremes.  Delays and other weather impacts could adversely affect our ability to meet project deadlines and may increase a project's cost and decrease its profitability.. Certain of our facilities are located in regions that may be affected by natural disasters.. Certain of our Bayou facilities are located on the Gulf Coast in Louisiana.  We also have facilities near Houston, Texas, and in Florida.  These regions are subject to increased hurricane activity that can result in substantial flooding.  Our Aegion Energy Services business serves large oil and gas customers in California and is headquartered in Irvine, California with operations. 24. near major earthquake faults throughout California.  Furthermore, our Infrastructure Solutions segment has substantial operations in California near major earthquake faults.  Our Bayou facilities have in the past experienced damage due to winds and floods, while our facilities in these other locations have experienced minimal damages from recent natural disasters.  Although we maintain loss insurance where necessary, a hurricane, earthquake or other natural disaster could result in significant damage to our facilities, destruction or disruption of our critical business or information technology systems, recovery costs and interruption to certain of our operations.  In addition, a catastrophic event could interrupt operations of our customers and suppliers, which could result in delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers, and impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, which could result in loss of business or an increase in expense, both of which may have a material adverse effect on our business.. The actual timing, costs and benefits of the 2017 Restructuring may differ from those currently expected, which may reduce our operating results.. On July 28, 2017, we announced the 2017 Restructuring, which is intended to reduce the Company's consolidated annual expenses by more than $20 million.  We completed a majority of the 2017 Restructuring during 2017 and will substantially complete the 2017 Restructuring during 2018.  See Notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for additional information and disclosures regarding our restructuring activities.. The 2017 Restructuring is subject to various risks, which could result in the actual timing, costs and benefits of the plan differing from those currently anticipated.  These risks and uncertainties include, among others, that: (i) we may not be able to implement the 2017 Restructuring in the timeframe currently planned; (ii) our costs related to the 2017 Restructuring may be higher than currently estimated; (iii) the expected annual expense reductions may be less than currently estimated; and (iv) unanticipated disruptions to our operations may result in additional costs being incurred.  We also cannot provide assurance that we will not undertake additional restructuring activities in the future.  Because of these and other factors, we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of the 2017 Restructuring, and if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely impacted.. Additionally, the 2017 Restructuring may yield unintended consequences, such as:. • actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service standards to customers;. • the failure to preserve supplier relationships and distribution, sales and other important relationships and to resolve conflicts that may arise;. • attrition beyond our intended reduction in headcount and reduced employee morale, which may cause our employees who were not affected by the 2017 Restructuring to seek alternate employment;. • increased risk of employment litigation; and. • diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities.. We may face significant challenges in our plans to divest The Bayou Companies, LLC and Bayou Wasco Insulation, LLC.. On July 28, 2017, we initiated actions to divest Bayou, our pipe coating and insulation businesses in Louisiana.  Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business, including required separation or carve-out activities, disputes with buyers and unexpected costs.  The uncertainty resulting from our announced plans to divest Bayou could cause significant disruption to the Bayou businesses.  Our management's attention to our ongoing operations may be diverted by efforts to divest Bayou.  There are significant risks and uncertainties in the sales process, including the timing and uncertainty of completion of any transaction and the fulfillment of closing conditions, some of which may be outside of our control.  Any significant delay in the completion of this divestiture, or the failure to complete the divestiture, may negatively impact our ability to implement new strategic plans, or achieve our previously announced strategic plans.  We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable, or at a higher cost, than we had previously anticipated, which may result in impairment charges or losses on disposal.  If we reach an agreement with a buyer for the disposition of a business, we might be subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing a transaction.  Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement, as we may be required to retain responsibility for, or agree to indemnify a buyer against, contingent liabilities related to businesses sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, lease payments, product liability claims or environmental matters.  Under these types of arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect future financial results.. We may from time to time undertake internal reorganizations that may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. From time to time, including in 2018, in an effort to simplify our organizational structure and streamline our operations or for other operational reasons, we may undertake certain internal reorganizations that may involve, among other things, the. 25. combination or dissolution of certain of our existing subsidiaries, the creation of new subsidiaries and business divisions and the settlement of historical inter-company transactions.  Additionally, as a result of the enactment of the TCJA and its effect on the taxation of offshore earnings, in connection with these actions or our operations generally, we may determine to repatriate certain earnings from our international subsidiaries, which earnings were previously permanently reinvested in such subsidiaries' operations.  In undertaking such actions, we consider, among other things, the alignment of our corporate structure with our organizational objectives, the operational and tax efficiency of our corporate structure and the long-term cash flow needs of our business.  These efforts may not result in the intended or expected benefits, may result in disruptions to our business and may cause the Company to incur additional expenses or tax liabilities.  Accordingly, such actions may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Changes in the industries within which we operate and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuances of certain of our businesses, asset impairment, workforce reductions or restructurings.. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and to consider restructuring, disposing of or otherwise exiting businesses.  Any resource realignment, or decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses, may result in the recording of special charges, such as asset write-offs, workforce reductions, restructuring costs or charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities or businesses.  Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions.  Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions.. We may incur further impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets.. We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable.  The valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including revenue and market growth, operating cash flows, market multiples and discount rates.  Negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant businesses, could lead to further impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets.  If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets for an extended period of time, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions, cybersecurity attacks and breaches in data security, which could disrupt our operations and could result in a loss of assets.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks.  The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations.  Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions.  Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.  Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business/operating margins, revenues and competitive position.  The secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations, and we devote significant resources to protecting our information.  We maintain cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses from any breaches of our systems.. To improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers and suppliers, we use our suppliers' or vendors' information technology systems to submit and process invoices and payments.  The failures of these systems could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products and other business disruptions.  These events could lead to financial losses from loss of business or an increase in expense, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Increasing regulatory focus on privacy issues and expanding laws could expose us to increased liability.. In May 2018, the European Union's new General Data Protection Regulation will replace the existing European Union Data Protection Directive, and it will have a significant impact on how businesses can collect and process the personal data of European Union individuals, including the requirement for business to self-report personal data breaches to the relevant supervisory authority and, under certain circumstances, to the affected data subjects, and provide additional rights to individuals whose data is processed.  Penalties for non-compliance are also significantly higher under the new law, with the maximum fine being the higher of \20020 million or 4% of global turnover for the preceding year.  More than 5% of our workforce as of. 26. December 31, 2017 was employed in the European Union.  In addition, numerous proposals regarding privacy and data protection are pending before U.S. and non-U.S. legislative and regulatory bodies.  Despite our commitment to complying with applicable laws, actual or alleged violations of these laws could result in legal claims or proceedings and regulatory penalties, which could disrupt our business, distract our employees and negatively impact our reputation as well as our results of operations.. We are subject to a number of restrictive debt covenants under our credit facility.. In October 2015, the Company amended and restated its $650.0 million senior secured credit facility (as amended, the \"Credit Facility\") with a syndicate of banks.  Our Credit Facility contains certain restrictive covenants, which restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, incur certain liens on our assets or sell assets, make investments and make other restricted payments.  Our Credit Facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios under certain conditions and satisfy financial condition tests.  Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests and otherwise comply with our financial covenants may be affected by the factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section of this Report and other factors outside our control, and we may not be able to continue to meet those ratios, tests and covenants.  Our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control.  A breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or restrictions, as applicable, or any inability to pay interest on, or principal of, our outstanding debt as it becomes due could result in an event of default.  Upon an event of default, if not waived by our lenders, our lenders may declare all amounts outstanding as due and payable.. At December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants as required under the Credit Facility.  If we are unable to comply with the restrictive covenants in the future, we would be required to obtain amendments or waivers from our lenders or secure another source of financing.  If our current lenders accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient capital available at that time to pay the amounts due to our lenders on a timely basis.  In addition, these restrictive covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions and taking advantage of attractive business opportunities.. We occasionally access the financial markets to finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs.  Our ability to access these markets may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations or implement our operating strategy.. We occasionally borrow under our existing credit facility to fund operations, including working capital investments.  Market disruptions such as those experienced in the United States and abroad in the past few years have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive and, in certain cases, resulting in the unavailability of certain types of financing.  Uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facility or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development.  These disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business.  If we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected.. As a holding company, Aegion depends on its operating subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations.. Aegion Corporation is a holding company with no significant operating assets.  Our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets.  Our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations depends on the cash flow of our subsidiaries.  In addition, the payments of funds in the form of dividends, intercompany payments, tax sharing payments and other forms may be subject to restrictions under the laws of the states and countries in which we operate.. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and may result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss.. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results;. • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts that cover our stock or our failure to meet these estimates;. • conditions or trends in the U.S. wastewater rehabilitation market;. • conditions or trends in mined materials, oil and natural gas markets;. • changes in municipal and corporate spending practices;. • a downturn of the municipal bond market or lending markets generally;. 27. • changes in the federal or state governments that impact regulation and spending regarding energy and infrastructure;. • changes in market valuations of other companies operating in our industries;. • announcements by us or our competitors of a significant acquisition or divestiture; and. • additions or departures of key personnel.. In addition, the stock market in general and The Nasdaq Global Select Market in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies.  Industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.  Such stock price volatility could result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss.. Future sales of our common stock or equity-linked securities in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings.. Sales of substantial numbers of additional shares of our common stock or any shares of our preferred stock, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, or the perception that such sales could occur, may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us.  We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy obligations upon exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons.  Our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 125,000,000 shares of common stock.  As of December 31, 2017, 32,462,542 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors has the authority, without any action of our stockholders, to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock.  Preferred stock may be issued upon such terms and with such designations as our board of directors may fix in its discretion, including with respect to: (i) the payment of dividends upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock; (iii) dividend rates; (iv) redemption or conversion rights; (v) liquidation preferences; or (vi) voting rights.. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock set forth in our certificate of incorporation, the certificate of designation relating to such class or series of preferred stock, or as otherwise required by law, any stockholder action may be taken only at a meeting of stockholders and may not be effected by any written consent by such stockholders.  The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors is required to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with such arrangement.. These provisions could potentially be used to discourage attempts by others to obtain control of our company through merger, tender offer, proxy, consent or otherwise by making such attempts more difficult or more costly, even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our stockholders. These provisions also may make it more difficult for stockholders to take action opposed by our board of directors or otherwise adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated by-laws designate the state courts of Delaware or, if no such state court has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of claims that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against Aegion and Aegion's directors and officers.. Our amended and restated by-laws provide that, unless waived by Aegion, the state courts of the State of Delaware or, if no state court located in the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any claims brought by a stockholder (including a beneficial owner) (i) that are based upon a violation of a duty by a current or former director, officer or stockholder in such capacity or (ii) as to which the Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction upon the Delaware Court of Chancery.  This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with Aegion or Aegion's directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against Aegion and Aegion's directors and officers.  Alternatively, if a court outside of Delaware were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we could incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.  Our present policy is to retain earnings to provide for the operation and expansion of our business or for the repurchase of shares of our common stock.  Any. 28. payment of cash dividends will depend upon our earnings, financial condition, cash flows, financing agreements and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors.  Furthermore, under the terms of certain debt arrangements to which we are a party, we are subject to certain limitations on paying dividends.  However, we carefully review this policy regularly and could initiate dividends in the future depending on appropriate circumstances."
