[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. General Business Risks. The proposed acquisition of the assets associated with our EES operating segment by Webasto may disrupt our business and, if this transaction is not completed, our stock price may decline and we will have incurred significant expenses.. On June 1, 2018, we entered into the Purchase Agreement with Webasto, pursuant to which Webasto has agreed to acquire certain properties, assets and rights used or held for use in connection with our EES Business. The transaction, whether or not consummated, may disrupt our sales and marketing or other business activities, including our relationships with customers, suppliers and other third parties, and divert management's and our employees' attention from our day-to-day operations, which may have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Further, the failure to complete the transaction may result in disruptions related to the re-integration of our EES Business, as well as a potential decline in employee morale. Alternatively, we could seek other strategic alternatives for the EES Business, such as a sale of the assets of the business to another party.  We may not be successful in consummating such other strategic alternatives or on terms as favorable as the current proposed transaction with Webasto.  Additionally, the employees of our EES Business, despite being offered employment with Webasto after the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, may decide to depart and seek alternative employment prior to the closing, which would have a negative impact on our ability to continue our operations.. The Purchase Agreement generally requires us to operate our EES Business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the transaction and places certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our EES Business that may affect our ability to execute on our business strategy and attain our financial objectives. Additionally, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial financial advisory, legal, and other professional fees and expenses in connection with the transaction, which we must pay regardless of whether the transaction is completed.. The obligations of the parties to complete the transaction with Webasto are subject to certain closing conditions, including: (i) the accuracy of each party's representations and warranties (subject to customary materiality qualifiers), (ii) each party's compliance with its covenants and agreements contained in the Purchase Agreement (subject to customary materiality qualifiers), (iii) the execution by the parties of certain ancillary agreements and (iv) other customary closing conditions, which are described in more detail in the Purchase Agreement, which will be filed as an exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending July 29, 2018.  In the event that any of the conditions set forth in the Purchase Agreement are not satisfied or waived to the extent permitted by applicable law or the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement do not occur when or as expected, the price per share of our common stock could decline.. We will continue to be responsible for certain liabilities and obligations related to our EES business even if our proposed divestiture of the related assets is consummated.. Under our Purchase Agreement with Webasto, Webasto has assumed certain of our future obligations with respect to our EES business, although we will continue to be responsible for certain warranty, product and other liabilities arising prior to the closing of such transaction. If substantial unknown liabilities were to arise in the future, then our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Further, we have agreed to indemnify Webasto for certain pre-closing liabilities associated with our EES business assets and for breaches of the representations and warranties contained in the Purchase Agreement for the transaction.  There can be no guarantee that material claims will not arise during the relevant indemnification periods and that we will not have to provide the requisite indemnification. In addition, legal challenges to any potential claim for indemnification could result in increased legal expenses to us.. We rely heavily on sales to the U.S. government, particularly to agencies of the Department of Defense.. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our total sales and substantially all of our small UAS sales from the U.S. government and its agencies. Sales to the U.S. government, either as a prime contractor or subcontractor, represented approximately 54% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2018. The DoD, our principal U.S.. 19. Table of Contents. government customer, accounted for approximately 46% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2018. We believe that the success and growth of our business for the foreseeable future will continue to depend to a significant degree on our ability to win government contracts, in particular from the DoD. Many of our government customers are subject to budgetary constraints and our continued performance under these contracts, or award of additional contracts from these agencies, could be jeopardized by spending reductions, including constraints on government spending imposed by the Budget Control Act of 2011 and its subsequent amendments, or budget cutbacks at these agencies. The funding of U.S. government programs is uncertain and dependent on continued congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds based on an annual budgeting process. We cannot assure you that current levels of congressional funding for our products and services will continue and that our business will not decline. Additionally, the U.S. military funds our contracts primarily through operational needs statements, and to a lesser extent, through programs of record, which provides us with less visibility and certainty on future funding allocations for our contracts. Furthermore, all of our contracts with the U.S. government are terminable by the U.S. government at will. A significant decline in government expenditures generally, or with respect to programs for which we provide products, could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our operating results may also be negatively impacted by other developments that affect these government programs generally, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in government programs that are related to our products and services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadoption of new laws or regulations relating to government contracting or changes to existing laws or regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in political or public support for security and defense programs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays or changes in the government appropriations and budget process;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tuncertainties associated with the current global threat environment and other geo - political matters; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices.. These developments and other factors could cause governmental agencies to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at - will or to abstain from renewing contracts, any of which would cause our revenue to decline and could otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Military transformation and changes in overseas operational levels may affect future procurement priorities and existing programs, which could limit demand for our UAS.. Over the last decade, operational activity in Afghanistan and Iraq led to adoption and an increase in demand for our small UAS. More recently, the U.S. military has reduced its presence and operational activity in Afghanistan and Iraq, reducing demand for certain of our small UAS products from prior levels. We cannot predict whether the reduction in overseas operational levels will continue, how future procurement priorities related to defense transformation will be impacted or how changes in the threat environment will impact opportunities for our small UAS business in terms of existing, additional or replacement programs. If defense transformation or overseas operations cease or slow down, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be impacted negatively.. We operate in evolving markets, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects.. Our UAS are sold in new and rapidly evolving markets. The commercial UAS market is in the early stages of customer adoption. The market for HAPS UAS is also in an early stage of development. Accordingly, our business and future prospects may be difficult to evaluate. We cannot accurately predict the extent to which demand for our products will increase, if at all. The challenges, risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in rapidly evolving markets could impact our ability to do the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgenerate sufficient revenue to maintain profitability;. 20. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacquire and maintain market share;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tachieve or manage growth in our operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelop and renew contracts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tattract and retain additional engineers and other highly - qualified personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuccessfully develop and commercially market new products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadapt to new or changing policies and spending priorities of governments and government agencies; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\taccess additional capital when required and on reasonable terms.. If we fail to address these and other challenges, risks and uncertainties successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially harmed.. We face competition from other firms, many of which have substantially greater resources.. The defense industry is highly competitive and generally characterized by intense competition to win contracts. Our current principal small UAS competitors include Elbit Systems Ltd., L3 Technologies, Inc. and Lockheed Martin Corporation. We do not view large UAS such as Northrop Grumman Corporation's Global Hawk, General Atomics, Inc.'s Predator and related products, The Boeing Company's ScanEagle and Textron Inc.'s Shadow as direct competitors because they perform different missions, do not typically deliver their information directly to front - line ground forces, and are not hand launched and controlled. However, we cannot be certain that these platforms will not become direct competitors in the future. The HAPS UAS market is in an early stage of development and our HAPS UAS faces competition from several aerospace and defense contractors and internet technology companies pursuing the high altitude long endurance UAS market for global communication and remote sensing, including The Boeing Company, Airbus, Lockheed Martin Corporation and Northrop Grumman Corporation, and competition from companies pursuing alternative solutions for this market such as Lockheed Martin Corporation and Northrop Grumman Corporation with airships (high altitude aircraft that are kept buoyant by a body of gas that is lighter than air) and companies pursuing conventional satellites and Low Earth Orbit, or LEO, micro or cubesat satellite constellations. Our tactical missile systems business faces competition from competitors including Textron Inc., Raytheon Company and Lockheed Martin Corporation.. Some of these firms have substantially greater financial, management, research and marketing resources than we have. Our UAS services business also faces competition from smaller businesses that can provide training and logistics services for multiple UAS platforms, including our small UAS.. Our competitors may be able to provide customers with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications, past contract performance, geographic presence, price and the availability of key professional personnel, including those with security clearances. Furthermore, many of our competitors may be able to utilize their substantially greater resources and economies of scale to develop competing products and technologies, manufacture in high volumes more efficiently, divert sales away from us by winning broader contracts or hire away our employees by offering more lucrative compensation packages. Small business competitors in our services businesses may be able to offer more cost competitive services, due to their lower overhead costs, and take advantage of small business incentive and set - aside programs for which we are ineligible. In the event that the market for small UAS and services expands, we expect that competition will intensify as additional competitors enter the market and current competitors expand their product lines. In order to secure contracts successfully when competing with larger, well - financed companies, we may be forced to agree to contractual terms that provide for lower aggregate payments to us over the life of the contract, which could adversely affect our margins. In addition, larger diversified competitors serving as prime contractors may be able to supply underlying products and services from affiliated entities, which would prevent us from competing for subcontracting opportunities on these contracts. Our failure to compete effectively. 21. Table of Contents. with respect to any of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results.. If the UAS, tactical missile systems, and commercial UAS markets do not experience significant growth, if we cannot expand our customer base or if our products do not achieve broad acceptance, then we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth.. We cannot accurately predict the future growth rates or sizes of the markets for our products. Demand for our products may not increase, or may decrease, either generally or in specific markets, for particular types of products or during particular time periods. We believe the market for commercial UAS is nascent. Moreover, there are only a limited number of major programs under which the U.S. military, our primary customer, is currently funding the development or purchase of our UAS and tactical missile systems. Although we have expanded our UAS customer base to include foreign governments, and domestic non - military agencies, we cannot assure you that our continued efforts to further increase our sales to these customers will be successful. The expansion of the UAS, tactical missile systems, and commercial UAS markets in general, and the market for our products in particular, depends on a number of factors, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcustomer satisfaction with these types of systems as solutions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe cost, performance and reliability of our products and products offered by our competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcustomer perceptions regarding the effectiveness and value of these types of systems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitations on our ability to market our UAS and tactical missile systems products and services outside the United States due to U.S. government regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtaining timely regulatory approvals, including, with respect to our small UAS business, access to airspace and wireless spectrum; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarketing efforts and publicity regarding these types of systems.. Even if UAS, tactical missile systems, and commercial UAS gain wide market acceptance, our products may not adequately address market requirements and may not continue to gain market acceptance. If these types of systems generally, or our products specifically, do not gain wide market acceptance, then we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our revenue and results of operations would decline.. Our international business poses potentially greater risks than our domestic business.. We derived approximately 46% of our revenue from international sales, including U.S. government foreign military sales in which an end user is a foreign government, during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2018 compared to 37% for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2017. We expect to continue to derive an increasing portion of our revenue from international sales. Our international revenue and operations are subject to a number of material risks, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe unavailability of, or difficulties in obtaining any, necessary U.S. governmental authorizations for the export of our products to certain foreign jurisdictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory requirements that may adversely affect our ability to operate in foreign jurisdictions, sell certain products or repatriate profits to the United States;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives and consultants;. 22. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe complexities of operating a business in an international location through a subsidiary or joint venture structure that may include foreign business partners, subcontractors and suppliers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe complexity of shipping our products internationally through multiple jurisdictions with varying legal requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems and other relevant legal issues, including fewer legal protections for intellectual property;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential fluctuations in foreign economies and in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential preferences by prospective customers to purchase from local (non - U.S.) sources;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlaws or regulations relating to non - U.S. military contracts that favor purchases from non - U.S. manufacturers over U.S. manufacturers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe imposition of tariffs, embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifferent and changing legal and regulatory requirements, including those pertaining to anti-corruption, anti-boycott, data protection and privacy, employment law, intellectual property and contracts in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future.. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. While we have adopted policies and procedures to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations applicable to our international sales, our failure, or the failure by our employees or others working on our behalf, to comply with such laws and regulations may result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges. Moreover, our sales, including sales to customers outside the United States, substantially all are denominated in U.S. dollars, and downward fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make our products more expensive than other products, which could harm our business.. We could be prohibited from shipping our products to certain countries if we are unable to obtain U.S. government authorization regarding the export of our products, or if current or future export laws limit or otherwise restrict our business.  In addition, failure to comply with export laws could result in fines, export restrictions and other sanctions and penalties.. We must comply with U.S. and other laws regulating the export of our products. In some cases, explicit authorization from the relevant U.S. government authorities is needed to export our products. The export regulations and the governing policies applicable to our business are subject to change. We cannot provide assurance that such export authorizations will be available for our products in the future. Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our operations or our sales in the recent past, but could significantly limit them in the future. We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that our compliance controls may be ineffective. We have voluntarily disclosed export violations to the U.S. Department of State, a number of which are currently under review by the department. The State Department has imposed significant fines, penalties and sanctions, including suspension of export privileges, on companies that have violated the export laws. If the State Department determines that the conduct in our voluntary disclosures warrants the imposition of significant fines, penalties or sanctions, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial condition and limit or prevent us from being able to sell our products in certain international jurisdictions.. 23. Table of Contents. If we are unable to manage the increasing complexity of our business or achieve or manage our expected growth, our business could be adversely affected.. The complexity of our business has increased significantly over the last several years. We have expanded the number of business areas being pursued, shifting from primarily a U.S. government focused business to a business that includes substantial international product sales and added commercial services and formed a joint venture with SoftBank Corp. to develop HAPS UAS. This increased complexity and our expected growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We anticipate further growth of headcount and facilities will be required to address expansion in our product offerings and the geographic scope of our customer base. However, if we are unsuccessful in our efforts, our business could decline. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage our increased complexity and expected growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to hire, train, manage and integrate a significant number of qualified managers and engineers. If our new employees perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or retaining these or our existing employees, then our business may experience declines.. To support our expected growth, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information systems. If we are unable to manage our growth while maintaining our quality of service, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing our growth do not produce the expected benefits, then our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected.. Any efforts to expand our offerings beyond our current markets may not succeed, which could negatively impact our operating results.. Until recently, we have focused on selling our small UAS to the U.S. military. We have, however, expanded our small UAS sales into other government and commercial markets and formed a joint venture with SoftBank Corp. to develop HAPS UAS for global communication and remote sensing applications. Our efforts to expand our product offerings beyond our traditional markets may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to unproven businesses that may not generate additional sales, either of which could significantly impair our operating results.. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, which requires us to develop new products and product enhancements, and could render our existing products obsolete.. Continuing technological changes in the market for our products could make our products less competitive or obsolete, either generally or for particular applications. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce a variety of new capabilities and enhancements to our existing product offerings, as well as introduce a variety of new product offerings, to address the changing needs of the markets in which we offer our products. Delays in introducing new products and enhancements, the failure to choose correctly among technical alternatives or the failure to offer innovative products or enhancements at competitive prices may cause existing and potential customers to purchase our competitors' products.. If we are unable to devote adequate resources to develop new products or cannot otherwise successfully develop new products or enhancements that meet customer requirements on a timely basis, our products could lose market share, our revenue and profits could decline, and we could experience operating losses.. We expect to incur substantial research and development costs and devote significant resources to identifying and commercializing new products and services, which could significantly reduce our profitability and may never result in revenue to us.. Our future growth depends on penetrating new markets, adapting existing products to new applications, and introducing new products and services that achieve market acceptance. We plan to incur substantial research and development costs as part of our efforts to design, develop and commercialize new products and services and enhance existing products. We spent $26.4 million, or 10% of our revenue, in our fiscal year ended April 30, 2018 on research and development activities. We believe that there are significant investment opportunities in a number of business areas.. 24. Table of Contents. Because we account for research and development as an operating expense, these expenditures will adversely affect our earnings in the future. Further, our research and development programs may not produce successful results, and our new products and services may not achieve market acceptance, create additional revenue or become profitable, which could materially harm our business, prospects, financial results and liquidity.. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals from the FAA or other governmental agencies, or limitations put on the use of small UAS in response to public privacy concerns, may prevent us from expanding the sales of our small UAS to non - military customers in the United States.. The regulation of small UAS for commercial use in the United States is undergoing substantial change and the ultimate treatment is uncertain. In 2006, the FAA issued a clarification of its existing policies stating that, in order to engage in commercial use of small UAS in the U.S. National Airspace System, a public operator must obtain a COA from the FAA, or fly in restricted airspace. The FAA's COA approval process requires that the public operator certify the airworthiness of the aircraft for its intended purpose, that a collision with another aircraft or other airspace user is extremely improbable, that the small unmanned aircraft system complies with appropriate cloud and terrain clearances and that the operator or spotter of the small unmanned aircraft system is generally within one half - mile laterally and 400 feet vertically of the small unmanned aircraft system while in operation. Furthermore, the FAA's clarification of existing policy stated that the rules for radio - controlled hobby aircraft do not apply to public or commercial use of small UAS.. On February 14, 2012, the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 was enacted, establishing various deadlines for the FAA to allow expanded use of small UAS for both public and commercial applications. On June 21, 2016, the FAA released its final rules regarding the routine use of certain small UAS (under 55 pounds) in the U.S. National Airspace System pursuant to the act. The rules, which became effective in August 2016, provided safety regulations for small UAS conducting non - recreational operations and contain various limitations and restrictions for such operations, including a requirement that operators keep UAS within visual-line-of-sight and prohibiting flights over unprotected people on the ground who are not directly participating in the operation of the UAS. We cannot assure you that these new rules will result in the expanded use of our small UAS by law enforcement or other non - military government agencies or commercial entities and we may not be able to expand our sales of small UAS beyond our military customers, which could harm our business prospects.. In addition, there exists public concern regarding the privacy implications of U.S. commercial and law enforcement use of small UAS. This concern has included calls to develop explicit written policies and procedures establishing usage limitations. We cannot assure you that the response from regulatory agencies, customers and privacy advocates to these concerns will not delay or restrict the adoption of small UAS by non - military customers.. Our products and services are complex and could have unknown defects or errors, which may give rise to claims against us, diminish our brand or divert our resources from other purposes.. Our UAS rely on complex avionics, sensors, user - friendly interfaces and tightly - integrated, electromechanical designs to accomplish their missions. Despite testing, our products have contained defects and errors and may in the future contain defects, errors or performance problems when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released, or even after these products have been used by our customers for a period of time. These problems could result in expensive and time - consuming design modifications or warranty charges, delays in the introduction of new products or enhancements, significant increases in our service and maintenance costs, exposure to liability for damages, damaged customer relationships and harm to our reputation, any of which could materially harm our results of operations and ability to achieve market acceptance. In addition, increased development and warranty costs could be substantial and could reduce our operating margins.. The existence of any defects, errors, or failures in our products or the misuse of our products could also lead to product liability claims or lawsuits against us. A defect, error or failure in one of our UAS could result in injury, death or property damage and significantly damage our reputation and support for our UAS in general. We anticipate this risk will grow as our UAS begin to be used in U.S. domestic airspace and urban areas. We also remain liable for warranty and product liability claims for our EV charging systems and power cycling and test systems sold prior the closing of the transaction contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, which products have the potential to cause injury, death or. 25. Table of Contents. property damage in the event that they are misused, malfunction or fail to operate properly due to unknown defects or errors.. Although we maintain insurance policies, we cannot provide assurance that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to potential future claims or that these levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or at all. A successful product liability claim could result in substantial cost to us. Even if we are fully insured as it relates to a claim, the claim could nevertheless diminish our brand and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If critical components or raw materials used to manufacture our products become scarce or unavailable, then we may incur delays in manufacturing and delivery of our products, which could damage our business.. We obtain hardware components, various subsystems and systems from a limited group of suppliers. We do not have long - term agreements with any of these suppliers that obligate them to continue to sell components, subsystems, systems or products to us. Our reliance on these suppliers involves significant risks and uncertainties, including whether our suppliers will provide an adequate supply of required components, subsystems, or systems of sufficient quality, will increase prices for the components, subsystems or systems and will perform their obligations on a timely basis.. In addition, certain raw materials and components used in the manufacture of our products are periodically subject to supply shortages, and our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in delivery. Particularly, the market for electronic components is experiencing increased demand, creating substantial uncertainty regarding our suppliers' continued production of key components for our products. If we are unable to obtain components from third party suppliers in the quantities and of the quality that we require, on a timely basis and at acceptable prices, then we may not be able to deliver our products on a timely or cost effective basis to our customers, which could cause customers to terminate their contracts with us, increase our costs and seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, if any of our suppliers become financially unstable, or otherwise unable or unwilling to provide us with raw materials or components, then we may have to find new suppliers. It may take several months to locate alternative suppliers, if required, or to redesign our products to accommodate components from different suppliers. We may experience significant delays in manufacturing and shipping our products to customers and incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply if we lose any of these sources or are required to redesign our products. We cannot predict if we will be able to obtain replacement components within the time frames that we require at an affordable cost, if at all.. Our earnings and profit margins may decrease based on the mix of our contracts and programs and other factors related to our contracts.. In general, we perform our production work under fixed - price contracts and our repair and customer - funded research and development work under cost - plus - fee contracts. Under fixed - price contracts, we perform services under a contract at a stipulated price. Under cost - plus - fee contracts, which are subject to a contract ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. We typically experience lower profit margins under cost - plus - fee contracts than under fixed - price contracts, though fixed - price contracts involve higher risks. In general, if the volume of services we perform under cost - plus - fee contracts increases relative to the volume of services we perform under fixed - price contracts, we expect that our operating margin will decline. In addition, our earnings and margins may decrease depending on the costs we incur in contract performance, our achievement of other contract performance objectives and the stage of our performance at which our right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined.. We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.. Contract accounting requires judgments relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, assumptions for schedule and technical issues, customer - directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, and unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters. Due to the size and nature of many. 26. Table of Contents. of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition.. Cost overruns on our contracts could subject us to losses, decrease our operating margins and adversely affect our future business.. Fixed - price contracts (including both government and commercial contracts) represented approximately 80% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2018. If we fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during our performance of fixed - price contracts, then we may incur losses on these contracts because we absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. Under cost - plus - fee contracts, if costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, then we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control the costs we incur in performing under the contract, then our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards.. Our senior management and key employees are important to our customer relationships and overall business.. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our senior management and key employees. We rely on our executive officers, senior management and key employees to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that members of our management team and key employees have established and maintain with government defense personnel contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations and to identify new business opportunities. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers or key employees, and these individuals could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of any of our executive officers, members of our senior management team or key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and could materially harm our business and customer relationships and impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts and otherwise manage our business.. We must recruit and retain highly - skilled employees to succeed in our competitive business.. We depend on our ability to recruit and retain employees who have advanced engineering and technical services skills and who work well with our customers. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, then our ability to maintain our competitiveness and grow our business could be negatively affected. In addition, because of the highly technical nature of our products, the loss of any significant number of our existing engineering personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Moreover, some of our U.S. government contracts contain provisions requiring us to staff a program with certain personnel the customer considers key to our successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutes, the customer may terminate the contract.. 27. Table of Contents. Our business may be dependent upon our employees obtaining and maintaining required security clearances, as well as our ability to obtain security clearances for the facilities in which we perform sensitive government work.. Certain of our U.S. government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with DoD requirements. The DoD has strict security clearance requirements for personnel who work on classified programs. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain security clearances in a timely manner, or at all, or if our employees who hold security clearances are unable to maintain the clearances or terminate employment with us, then a customer requiring classified work could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and employ personnel with specified types of security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively rebid on expiring contracts.. Our future profitability may be dependent upon achieving cost reductions and projected economies of scale from increasing manufacturing quantities of our products. Failing to achieve such reductions in manufacturing costs and projected economies of scale could materially adversely affect our business.. We have limited experience manufacturing small UAS and tactical missile systems in high volume. We do not know whether or when we will be able to develop efficient, low - cost manufacturing capabilities and processes that will enable us to manufacture (or contract for the manufacture of) these products in commercial quantities while meeting the volume, speed, quality, price, engineering, design and production standards required to successfully market our products. Our failure to develop such manufacturing processes and capabilities in locations that can efficiently service our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our future profitability is, in part, dependent upon achieving increased savings from volume purchases of raw materials and component parts, achieving acceptable manufacturing yield and capitalizing on machinery efficiencies. We expect our suppliers to experience a sharp increase in demand for their products. As a result, we may not have reliable access to supplies that we require or be able to purchase such materials or components at cost effective prices. There is no assurance that we will ever be in a position to realize any material, labor and machinery cost reductions associated with higher purchasing power and higher production levels. Failure to achieve these cost reductions could adversely impact our business and financial results.. We face significant risks in overseeing our outsourcing of manufacturing processes as well as in the management of our inventory, and failure to properly oversee our manufacturing processes or to effectively manage our inventory levels may result in product recalls or supply imbalances that could harm our business.. We have contracted for the manufacture of our Quantix UAS with contract manufacturers. We sell these units directly and through dealers. We face significant risks if our contract manufacturers do not perform as expected. If we fail to effectively oversee the manufacturing process, including the work performed by our contract manufacturers, we could be negatively impacted by product recalls, poorly performing products and higher than anticipated warranty costs.. In addition, we also maintain a variety of parts and components in inventory to allow us to customize our UAS products for specific customer requirements, which parts are subject to obsolescence and expiration. Due to the long - lead time for obtaining certain UAS product components and the manufacturing cycles, we need to make forecasts of demand and commit significant resources towards manufacturing our products. As such, we are subject to significant risks in managing the inventory needs of our business during the year, including estimating the appropriate demand for our products. Should orders and market conditions differ significantly from our estimates, our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In the future, we may be required to record write - downs of finished products and materials on - hand and/or additional charges for excess purchase commitments as a result of future changes in our sales forecasts or customer orders.. 28. Table of Contents. Due to the volatile and flammable nature of certain components of our products and equipment, fires or explosions may disrupt our business or cause significant injuries, which could adversely affect our financial results.. The development and manufacture of certain of our products involves the handling of a variety of explosive and flammable materials as well as high power equipment. From time to time, these activities may result in incidents that could cause us to temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt some manufacturing processes, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and/or fatalities. We have safety and loss prevention programs that require detailed reviews of process changes and new operations, along with routine safety audits of operations involving explosive materials, to mitigate such incidents, as well as a variety of insurance policies, however our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all claims and losses related to such incidents. We may experience such incidents in the future, which could result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. The operation of UAS in urban environments may be subject to risks, such as accidental collisions and transmission interference, which may limit demand for our UAS in such environments and harm our business and operating results.. Urban environments may present certain challenges to the operators of UAS. UAS may accidentally collide with other aircraft, persons or property, which could result in injury, death or property damage and significantly damage the reputation of and support for UAS in general. As the usage of UAS has increased, particularly by military customers, the danger of such collisions has increased. Furthermore, the incorporation of our DDL technology into our UAS has increased the number of vehicles which can operate simultaneously in a given area and with this increase has come an increase in the risk of accidental collision. In addition, obstructions to effective transmissions in urban environments, such as large buildings, may limit the ability of the operator to utilize the aircraft for its intended purpose. The risks or limitations of operating UAS in urban environments may limit their value in such environments, which may limit demand for our UAS and consequently materially harm our business and operating results.. As a manufacturer of commercial UAS, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business.. As a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the United States, those issued under the Consumer Products Safety Act, as well as those issued under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. Failure to comply with any applicable product safety or consumer protection regulation could result in sanctions that could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future, and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. In addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non - use of certain materials, in the future. Complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. Similarly, increased penalties for non - compliance could subject us to greater expenses in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. Such increased costs or penalties could harm our business.. We could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business.. We may be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. The costs associated with any future product recalls could be significant. In addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations.. In addition to government regulation, products that have been or may be developed by us may expose us to potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of such products. There can be no assurance that a claim will not be brought against us in the future. While we maintain insurance coverage for product. 29. Table of Contents. liability claims, our insurance may be inadequate to cover any such claims. Any successful claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we remain responsible for non-warranty costs of any recall of products we manufactured, sold or services prior to closing of the transaction with Webasto.. Our quarterly operating results may vary widely.. Our quarterly revenue, cash flow and operating results have and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in revenue derived from government contracts, including cost - plus - fee contracts and contracts with a performance - based fee structure;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe size and timing of orders from military and other governmental agencies, including increased purchase requests from government customers for equipment and materials in connection with the U.S. government's fiscal year end, which may affect our quarterly operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe mix of products that we sell in the period;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseasonal fluctuations in customer demand for some of our products or services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated costs incurred in the introduction of new products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in the adoption of our products in new markets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to win additional contracts from existing customers or other contracts from new customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcancellations, delays or contract amendments by our U.S. governmental agency and foreign government customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in policy or budgetary measures that adversely affect our U.S. governmental agency and foreign government customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe cost of complying with various regulatory requirements applicable to our business and the potential penalties or sanctions that could be imposed for non - compliance; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to obtain the necessary export licenses for sales of our products and services to international customers.. Changes in the volume of products and services provided under existing contracts and the number of contracts commenced, completed or terminated during any quarter may cause significant variations in our cash flow from operations because a relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed. We incur significant operating expenses during the start - up and early stages of large contracts and typically do not receive corresponding payments in that same quarter. We may also incur significant or unanticipated expenses when contracts expire or are terminated or are not renewed. In addition, payments due to us from government agencies may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures of governmental budgets to gain congressional and presidential approval in a timely manner.. Shortfalls in available external research and development funding could adversely affect us.. We depend on our research and development activities to develop the core technologies used in our UAS products and for the development of our future products. A portion of our research and development activities depends on funding by commercial companies and the U.S. government. U.S. government and commercial spending levels can be impacted by a number of variables, including general economic conditions, specific companies' financial performance and competition for U.S. government funding with other U.S. government - sponsored programs in the. 30. Table of Contents. budget formulation and appropriation processes. To the extent that these external sources of funding are reduced or eliminated, company funding for research and development could be reduced. Any reductions in available research and development funding could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our work for the U.S. government and international governments may expose us to security risks.. As a U.S. government contractor, we face various security threats, including cyber security attacks on our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary, financial, banking or classified information as well as threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent disruptions, the unauthorized release of confidential technical, financial or banking information or corruption of data. Accordingly, any significant operational delays, or any destruction, manipulation or improper use of our data, information systems or networks could adversely affect our financial results and damage the reputation for our products and services. Previous cyber-attacks directed at us have not materially impacted our business or financial results, but the impact of future incidents cannot be predicted due to the evolving nature and complexity of cyber-attacks. If we or our partners are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Additionally, expenses resulting from cyber security attacks and other security risks may not be fully insured or otherwise mitigated, which could harm our financial results.. In addition, we work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. Some of our services are performed in or adjacent to high - risk locations, such as Iraq and Afghanistan, where the country or location is experiencing political, social or economic issues, or war or civil unrest. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. Despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future be negatively impacted by the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results.. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders.. We operate in emerging and rapidly evolving markets, which makes our prospects difficult to evaluate. It is possible that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. If this occurs, then we may need additional financing to pursue our business strategies, including to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thire additional engineers and other personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelop new or enhance existing products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenhance our operating infrastructure;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfund working capital requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacquire complementary businesses or technologies; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\totherwise respond to competitive pressures.. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly - issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our former line of credit contained, and future debt financing may contain, covenants or other provisions that limit our operational or financial flexibility. In addition, certain of our customers require that we obtain letters of credit to support our obligations under some of our contracts.. 31. Table of Contents. Our investment portfolio includes investments in auction rate securities. Failures in the auctions for these securities affect our liquidity, coupled with deterioration in credit ratings of issuers of such securities and/or third parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of our investment through an impairment of earnings.. As of April 30, 2018, our $2.1 million of long - term investments recorded at fair value consisted entirely of auction rate municipal bonds with maturities that range from approximately 1 to 16 years. These investments have characteristics similar to short - term investments, because at pre - determined intervals, generally ranging from 30 to 35 days, there is a new auction process at which the interest rates for these securities are reset to current interest rates. At the end of such period, we choose to roll - over our holdings or redeem the investments for cash. A market maker facilitates the redemption of the securities and the underlying issuers are not required to redeem the investment within 365 days.. Since fiscal 2008, we have experienced failed auctions of our auction rate securities and there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will succeed in the future. As a result, our ability to liquidate our investments in the near term may be limited, and our ability to recover the carrying value of our investments may be limited. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities were not able to do so. As of June 15, 2018, including the securities involved in failed auctions, we held approximately $1.9 million of these auction rate securities, all of which carry investment grade ratings. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by problems in the global credit markets. These and other related factors have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. If the issuers of these securities are unable to successfully close future auctions or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. We currently believe these securities are not permanently impaired, primarily due to the government backing of the underlying securities. However, it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 16 years) to realize our remaining investments' purchase price of $2.0 million. Based on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents, expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate that the current lack of liquidity on these investments will affect our ability to continue to operate our business in the ordinary course, however we can provide no assurance as to when these investments will again become liquid or as to whether we may ultimately have to recognize an impairment charge with respect to these investments.. Our cash may be subject to a risk of loss and we may be exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates.. Our assets include a significant amount of cash and investments. We adhere to an investment policy set by our Board of Directors which aims to preserve our financial assets, maintain adequate liquidity and maximize returns. We believe that our cash is held in institutions whose credit risk is minimal and that the value and liquidity of our deposits are accurately reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of April 30, 2018.  We currently invest the majority of our cash in U.S. government securities, U.S. government agency securities, municipal bonds and high-grade corporate bonds, the performance of which are subject to additional market risks related to their respective issuers. Nearly all of our cash and bank deposits are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC. Therefore, our cash and any bank deposits that we now hold or may acquire in the future may be subject to risks, including the risk of loss or of reduced value or liquidity. In the future, should we determine that there is a decline in value of any of our portfolio securities which is not temporary in nature, this would result in a loss being recognized in our consolidated statements of operations.. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and stock price.. Global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruptions in recent years, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that renewed deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions will not occur. Our general business strategy may be. 32. Table of Contents. adversely affected by any economic downturn, volatile business environment or continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon implementing business initiatives. These events and the continuing market upheavals could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including:. Potential Deferment of Purchases and Orders by Customers:  Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause governments, including the U.S. government, which is our largest customer, consumers and businesses to modify, defer or cancel purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our products could differ materially from our current expectations. Additionally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.. Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Key Suppliers:  Our ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. Certain of our hardware components and various subsystems are available only from a limited group of suppliers. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of a market downturn, then we may have to find new suppliers. We may experience significant delays in manufacturing and shipping our products to customers and incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply if we lose any of these sources or are required to redesign our products. We cannot predict if we will be able to obtain replacement components within the time frames that we require at an affordable cost, if at all. In addition, credit constraints of key suppliers could result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow.. Customers' Inability to Obtain Financing to Make Purchases from Us and/or Maintain Their Business:  Some of our customers may require substantial financing in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products, or otherwise meet their payment obligations to us could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if a market downturn results in insolvencies for our customers, it could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results.. We intend to consider strategic acquisitions that would add to our customer base, technological capabilities or system offerings. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiversion of financial and management resources from existing operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trisks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company's business;. 33. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tassumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company's products or its regulatory compliance; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs.. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity, or securities convertible into equity, then our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could lower the market price of our common stock. If we finance acquisitions through debt, then such future debt financing may contain covenants or other provisions that limit our operational or financial flexibility.. If we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, then we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results.. Environmental laws and regulations and unforeseen costs could impact our future earnings.. The manufacture and sale of our products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations. For example, we obtain a significant number of our electronics components from companies located in East Asia, where environmental rules may be less stringent than in the United States. Over time, the countries where these companies are located may adopt more stringent environmental regulations, resulting in an increase in our manufacturing costs. Given the increasing focus on environmental compliance by regulators and the general public, any incidence of non - compliance could result in damage to our reputation beyond the fines and other sanctions that could be imposed. Furthermore, certain environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive, Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, impose strict, joint and several liability on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances and impose liability for damages to natural resources. These laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. These environmental laws also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are later found to be contaminated. Such persons can be responsible for cleanup costs even if they never owned or operated the contaminated facility. Although we have never been named a responsible party at a contaminated site, we could be named a potentially responsible party in the future. We cannot assure you that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our future earnings or results of operations.. Our business is subject to federal, state and international laws regarding data protection and privacy, as well as confidentiality obligations under various agreements, and a privacy breach could damage our reputation, expose us to litigation risk and adversely affect our business.. In connection with our business, we receive, collect, process and retain certain sensitive and confidential customer information. As a result, we are subject to increasingly rigorous federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and data protection. We also execute confidentiality agreements with various parties under which we are required to protect their confidential information. Compliance with these agreements and constantly evolving laws may cause us to incur significant costs or require changes to our business practices, which could reduce our revenue. If we fail to comply with these privacy and data protection laws, proceedings may be brought against us by governmental entities or others or penalties may be imposed on us, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we could be subject to damages if we breach the confidentiality obligations in our agreements. While we rely, in part, on security services and software provided by outside vendors to protect sensitive and confidential customer information, there is no guarantee that the protections that we, or our outside vendors have implemented will prevent security breaches. In addition, we have access to certain of our customers' proprietary systems that contain sensitive information and are liable to such customers for damages caused by or employees' and agents' misuse of or access to such systems, including damages resulting from security breaches to such customers' systems caused by us. Any actual, threatened or perceived security breach that could result. 34. Table of Contents. in misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information could harm our reputation and relationship with customers and potential customers, expose us to litigation risk and liability and adversely affect our business.. Compliance with the SEC's conflict minerals regulations may increase our costs and adversely impact the supply - chain for our UAS products.. In August 2012, the SEC adopted disclosure rules regarding a company's use of conflict minerals in its products with substantial supply chain verification requirements in the event that the conflict minerals come from, or could have come from, the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. These rules and verification requirements will impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, including costs related to determining the source of conflict minerals used in our products, which will adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on information supplied by our first tier suppliers in conducting due diligence into the origins of conflict minerals in our products and in complying with our SEC reporting obligations. To the extent that information we receive from our suppliers is inaccurate or inadequate, we may not be able to determine whether our products are conflict mineral - free. We may face challenges in satisfying our customers who may require that our products be certified as conflict mineral - free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage and could harm our business. These regulations could also have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source items containing conflict minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict - free minerals at competitive prices, if at all, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business and operations are subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural catastrophic events.. Our corporate headquarters, research and development and manufacturing operations are located in Southern California, a region known for seismic activity and wild fires. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event, could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations, and as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. We self-insure a portion of our health insurance program which may expose us to unexpected costs and negatively affect our results of operations.. We are self-insured for employee medical claims, subject to individual and aggregate stop loss insurance policies. We estimate a liability for claims filed and incurred but not reported based upon recent claims experience and an analysis of the average period of time between the occurrence of a claim and the time it is reported to and paid by us.  However, unanticipated changes in assumptions and management estimates underlying our recorded liabilities for medical claims could result in materially different amounts of expense than expected under our health insurance program, which could have an adverse material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our U.S. Government Contracts. We are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business.. As a contractor to the U.S. government, we are subject to and must comply with various government regulations that impact our revenue, operating costs, profit margins and the internal organization and operation of our business. The most significant regulations and regulatory authorities affecting our business include the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Federal Acquisition Regulations and supplemental agency regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation and administration of, and performance under, U.S. government contracts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all factual cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations;. 35. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe False Claims Act and the False Statements Act, which impose penalties for payments made on the basis of false facts provided to the government and on the basis of false statements made to the government, respectively;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from providing anything of value to a foreign official to help obtain, retain or direct business, or obtain any unfair advantage;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe National Telecommunications and Information Administration and the Federal Communications Commission, which regulate the wireless spectrum allocations upon which UAS depend for operation and data transmission in the United States;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Federal Aviation Administration, which regulates the use of airspace for all aircraft, including UAS operation in the United States;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which regulate the export of controlled technical data, defense articles and defense services and restrict from which countries we may purchase materials and services used in the production of certain of our products; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlaws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes or determined to be \"controlled unclassified information\" and the exportation of certain products and technical data.. Also, we need special security clearances and regulatory approvals to continue working on certain of our projects with the U.S. government. Classified programs generally will require that we comply with various executive orders, federal laws and regulations and customer security requirements that may include restrictions on how we develop, store, protect and share information, and may require our employees and facilities to obtain government security clearances. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations, rules and approvals or misconduct by any of our employees could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the loss of security clearances, the loss of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government generally, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to certain regulations of comparable government agencies in other countries, and our failure to comply with these non - U.S. regulations could also harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or investigation by the U.S. government.. U.S. government agencies, primarily the DCAA and the DCMA, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. These agencies also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, quality, accounting, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems.. Like most government contractors, our contracts are audited and reviewed on a continual basis by the DCMA and the DCAA. The indirect costs we incur in performing government contracts have been audited on an annual basis. The DCMA, disallowed a portion of the our executive compensation and other costs included in our fiscal 2006, 2007 and 2008 incurred cost claims and sought interest for all three years and penalties for fiscal 2006, based on the disallowed costs.  We appealed these cost disallowances to the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals. For fiscal 2006, as a result of partial settlements and a decision of the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals in March 2016, the government's remaining claims were dismissed with prejudice.  All of the government's claims related to our 2007 and 2008 incurred cost claims were settled as of October 2015 by payment to the government of $50,000 and the government's claims related to our 2009 incurred cost claims were settled as of October 2015 without the payment of any consideration. The audit of our 2010 incurred cost claim was settled in April 2016 without payment of any consideration. Our incurred cost claims for fiscal years 2011 through 2014 were accepted as submitted during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2017.  No consideration was paid. In addition, non - audit reviews or investigations by the government may still be conducted on all of our government contracts.. 36. Table of Contents. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific cost reimbursement contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit or investigation of our business were to uncover improper or illegal activities, then we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. We could experience serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety or illegal acts were made against us, even if the allegations were inaccurate. In addition, responding to governmental audits or investigations may involve significant expense and divert management attention. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Moreover, if any of our administrative processes and business systems are found not to comply with the applicable requirements, we may be subjected to increased government scrutiny or required to obtain additional governmental approvals that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts. In December 2015, DCMA concluded that our purchasing system was not approved.  In an April 2016 follow-up review the DCMA approved our purchasing system. An unfavorable outcome to such an audit or investigation by the DCAA, U.S. Department of Justice or DOJ, or other government agency, could materially adversely affect our competitive position, affect our ability to obtain new government business, and obtain the maximum price for our products and services, and result in a substantial reduction of our revenues.. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally, or any specific agency, if our reputation or relationship with government agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our revenue and operating results could be materially harmed. For example, in February 2010, we were notified by the DOJ that it had initiated a civil investigation into our cost charging practices with respect to government contracts. We resolved these claims with the DOJ in October 2013. Under the settlement agreement, we reimbursed the government for an amount erroneously charged to the government in our fiscal 2006 incurred cost claim submittal.. Some of our contracts with the U.S. government allow it to use inventions developed under the contracts and to disclose technical data to third parties, which could harm our ability to compete.. Some of our contracts allow the U.S. government to use, royalty - free, or have others use, inventions developed under those contracts on behalf of the government. Some of the contracts allow the federal government to disclose technical data without constraining the recipient on how those data are used. The ability of third parties to use patents and technical data for government purposes creates the possibility that the government could attempt to establish alternative suppliers or to negotiate with us to reduce our prices. The potential that the government may release some of the technical data without constraint creates the possibility that third parties may be able to use this data to compete with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. U.S. government contracts are generally not fully funded at inception and contain certain provisions that may be unfavorable to us, which could prevent us from realizing our contract backlog and materially harm our business and results of operations.. U.S. government contracts typically involve long lead times for design and development, and are subject to significant changes in contract scheduling. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The termination or reduction of funding for a government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program.. The actual receipt of revenue on awards included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change or the program could be canceled, or a contract could be reduced, modified or terminated early.. In addition, U.S. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, at the government's convenience or for contractor default. Since a substantial majority of our revenue is dependent on the procurement, performance and payment under our U.S. government contracts, the termination of one or more critical. 37. Table of Contents. government contracts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Termination arising out of our default could result in damage to our reputation, expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to re - compete for future contracts and orders. Moreover, several of our contracts with the U.S. government do not contain a limitation of liability provision, creating a risk of responsibility for indirect, incidental damages and consequential damages. These provisions could cause substantial liability for us, especially given the use to which our products may be put.. U.S. government contracts are subject to a competitive bidding process that can consume significant resources without generating any revenue.. U.S. government contracts are frequently awarded only after formal, protracted competitive bidding processes and, in many cases, unsuccessful bidders for U.S. government contracts are provided the opportunity to protest contract awards through various agency, administrative and judicial channels. We derive significant revenue from U.S. government contracts that were awarded through a competitive bidding process. Much of the UAS business that we expect to seek in the foreseeable future likely will be awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe substantial cost and managerial time and effort that must be spent to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe need to estimate accurately the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we are awarded; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the delay of our contract performance, the distraction of management, the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract.. We may not be provided the opportunity to bid on contracts that are held by other companies and are scheduled to expire if the government extends the existing contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process, then we may not be able to operate for a number of years in the market for goods and services that are provided under those contracts. If we are unable to win new contract awards over any extended period consistently, then our business and prospects will be adversely affected.. We are subject to procurement rules and regulations, which increase our performance and compliance costs under our U.S. government contracts.. We must comply with, and are affected by, laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost - based U.S. government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. These requirements, although customary in U.S. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Although we believe we have procedures in place to comply with these regulations and requirements, the regulations and requirements are complex and change frequently. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements under certain circumstances could lead to suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have a negative effect on our reputation and ability to receive other U.S. government contract awards in the future.. 38. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we fail to protect, or incur significant costs in defending or enforcing our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. However, a significant portion of our technology is not patented, and we may be unable or may not seek to obtain patent protection for this technology. In addition, the U.S. government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed or used in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual property for government and other purposes. Moreover, existing U.S. legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights offer only limited protection, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and our rights may be challenged by third parties. The laws of countries other than the United States may be even less protective of our intellectual property rights. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise gaining access to our technology. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products or portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Moreover, many of our employees have access to our trade secrets and other intellectual property. If one or more of these employees leave our employment to work for one of our competitors, then they may disseminate this proprietary information, which may as a result damage our competitive position. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, then our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed. From time to time, we have initiated lawsuits to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Pursuing these claims is time consuming and expensive and could adversely impact our results of operations.. In addition, affirmatively defending our intellectual property rights and investigating whether any of our products or services violate the rights of others may entail significant expense. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, then the proceedings could result in significant expense to us and divert the attention and efforts of our management and technical employees, even if we prevail.. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which could be costly, time - consuming and limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.. We may become subject to claims that our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of third parties. Defending against, or otherwise addressing, any such claims, whether they are with or without merit, could be time - consuming and expensive, and could divert our management's attention away from the execution of our business plan. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from these claims could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the disputed technology, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. We cannot assure you that we would be able to: obtain from the third party asserting the claim a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all; or obtain a license to use a suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, our affected product. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our products to others. Infringement claims asserted against us may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market prices for securities of emerging technology companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the. 39. Table of Contents. operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tU.S. government spending levels, both generally and by our particular customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe volume of operational activity by the U.S. military;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices, resulting in potentially reduced earnings during a particular fiscal quarter;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events relating to us or our industry or our competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure of any of our key products to gain market acceptance;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in our quarterly operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tperceptions of the prospects for the markets in which we compete;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in general economic conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnews about the markets in which we compete or regarding our competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tterrorist acts or military action related to international conflicts, wars or otherwise;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key personnel.. In addition, the equity markets in general, and NASDAQ in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Further, the market prices of securities of emerging technology companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may affect the market price of our common stock adversely, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against that company. This type of litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. Our management, whose interests may not be aligned with yours, is able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval.. As of June 20, 2018, our directors, executive officers and their affiliates collectively beneficially owned 2,813,865 shares, or approximately 12%, of our total outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, our directors and executive officers as a group may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors. The interests of our directors and executive officers may not be fully aligned with yours. Although there is no agreement among our directors and executive officers with respect to the voting of their shares, this concentration of ownership may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company, and make. 40. Table of Contents. transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of all or some of our directors and executive officers. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then - prevailing market price for shares of our common stock.. Delaware law and anti - takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could make it more difficult to acquire us and limit your ability to sell your shares at a premium.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain provisions that reduce the probability of a change of control or acquisition of our company, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include, but are not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series of with such rights, obligations and preferences as the board may determine, without further vote or action by our stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAdvanced notice procedures for stockholders to nominate candidates for election to the board of directors and for stockholders to submit proposals for consideration at a meeting of stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe absence of cumulative voting rights for our stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe classification of our board of directors, which effectively prevents stockholders from electing a majority of the directors at any one annual meeting of stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe limitation that directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of 662/3% of the total voting power of all of our outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors, voting together as a single class; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRestrictions on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders.. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits \"business combinations\" between a publicly - held Delaware corporation and an \"interested stockholder,\" which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock for a three - year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. This statute, as well as the provisions in our organizational documents, could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing certain potential acquisitions or a change in control of us."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
