[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. We make forward-looking statements in this report, in other materials we file with the SEC or otherwise release to the public and on our website. In addition, our senior management makes forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media and others. Statements concerning our future operations, prospects, strategies, products, manufacturing facilities, legal proceedings, financial condition, future financial performance (including growth and earnings) and demand for our products and services, and other statements of our plans, beliefs or expectations, including the statements contained in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" regarding net sales, industry conditions, currency translation impacts, market demand, farm incomes, weather conditions, commodity prices,  general economic conditions, availability of financing, working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements, margins, production volumes, cost reduction initiatives, investments in product development, compliance with financial covenants, support of lenders, recovery of amounts under guarantee, uncertain income tax provisions, funding of our pension and postretirement benefit plans, or realization of net deferred tax assets, are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements we make are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to various assumptions, risks and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, those set forth below and in the other documents that we file with the SEC. There also are other factors that we may not describe, generally because we currently do not perceive them to be material, that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.. Our financial results depend entirely upon the agricultural industry, and factors that adversely affect the agricultural industry generally, including declines in the general economy, increases in farm input costs, weather conditions, lower commodity prices and changes in the availability of financing for our retail customers, will adversely affect us.. Our success depends entirely on the vitality of the agricultural industry. Historically, the agricultural industry, including the agricultural equipment business, has been cyclical and subject to a variety of economic and other factors. Sales of agricultural equipment generally are related to the economic health of the agricultural industry, which is affected by farm income, farm input costs, debt levels and land values, all of which reflect levels of commodity prices, acreage planted, crop yields, agricultural product demand, including crops used as renewable energy sources, government policies and government subsidies. Sales also are influenced by economic conditions, interest rate and exchange rate levels, and the availability of financing for retail customers. Trends in the industry, such as farm consolidations, may affect the agricultural equipment market. In addition, weather conditions, such as floods, heat waves or droughts, and pervasive livestock or crop diseases can affect farmers' buying decisions. Downturns in the agricultural industry due to these or other factors, which could vary by market, are likely to result in decreases in demand for agricultural equipment, which would adversely affect our sales, growth, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the unpredictable nature of many of these factors and the resulting volatility in demand make it difficult for us to accurately predict sales and optimize production. This, in turn, can result in higher costs, including inventory carrying costs and underutilized manufacturing capacity. During previous downturns in the farm sector, we experienced significant and prolonged declines in sales and profitability, and we expect our business to remain subject to similar market fluctuations in the future.. The agricultural equipment industry is highly seasonal, and seasonal fluctuations significantly impact results of operations and cash flows.. The agricultural equipment business is highly seasonal, which causes our quarterly results and our cash flow to fluctuate during the year. Farmers generally purchase agricultural equipment in the Spring and Fall in conjunction with the major planting and harvesting seasons. In addition, the fourth quarter typically is a significant period for retail sales because of our customers' year-end tax planning considerations, the increase in availability of funds from completed harvests and the timing of dealer incentives. Our net sales and income from operations historically have been the lowest in the first quarter and have increased in subsequent quarters as dealers anticipate increased retail sales in subsequent quarters.. Most of our sales depend on the availability of retail customers obtaining financing, and any disruption in their ability to obtain financing, whether due to economic downturns or otherwise, will result in the sale of fewer products by us. In addition, the collectability of receivables that are created from our sales, as well as from such retail financing, is critical to our business.. Most retail sales of our products are financed, either by AGCO Finance joint ventures or by a bank or other private lender. Our AGCO Finance joint ventures, which are controlled by Rabobank and are dependent upon Rabobank for financing. 7. Table of Contents. as well, finance approximately 40% of the retail sales of our tractors and combines in the markets where the joint ventures operate. Any difficulty by Rabobank in continuing to provide that financing, or any business decision by Rabobank as the controlling member not to fund the business or particular aspects of it (for example, a particular country or region) would require the joint ventures to find other sources of financing (which may be difficult to obtain) or would require us to find another source of retail financing for our customers, or our customers would be required to utilize other retail financing providers. A result of an economic downturn would be that financing for capital equipment purchases generally would become more difficult or more expensive to obtain. To the extent that financing is not available, or available only at unattractive prices, our sales would be negatively impacted.. Both AGCO and our AGCO Finance joint ventures have substantial accounts receivable from dealers and retail customers, and we would both be adversely impacted if the collectability of these receivables was not consistent with historical experience. This collectability is dependent on the financial strength of the farm industry, which in turn is dependent upon the general economy and commodity prices, as well as several of the other factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section. In addition, the AGCO Finance joint ventures may experience credit losses that exceed expectations and adversely affect their financial condition and results of operations. The finance joint ventures may also experience residual value losses that exceed expectations caused by lower pricing for used equipment and higher than expected returns at lease maturity. To the extent that defaults and losses are higher than expected, our equity in the net earnings of the finance joint ventures could be less, or there could be losses, which could materially impact our financial results.. Our success depends on the introduction of new products, which requires substantial expenditures.. Our long-term results depend upon our ability to introduce and market new products successfully. The success of our new products will depend on a number of factors, including:. • innovation;. • customer acceptance;. • the efficiency of our suppliers in providing component parts and of our manufacturing facilities in producing final products; and. • the performance and quality of our products relative to those of our competitors.. As both we and our competitors continuously introduce new products or refine versions of existing products, we cannot predict the level of market acceptance or the amount of market share our new products will achieve. We have experienced delays in the introduction of new products in the past, and we cannot provide any assurances that we will not experience delays in the future. Any delays or other problems with our new product launches will adversely affect our operating results. In addition, introducing new products can result in decreases in revenues from our existing products. Consistent with our strategy of offering new products and product refinements, we expect to continue to use a substantial amount of capital for product development and refinement. We may need more funding for product development and refinement than is readily available, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our expansion plans in emerging markets entail significant risks.. Our strategy includes establishing a greater manufacturing and/or marketing presence in emerging markets such as China, Africa and Russia. In addition, we are expanding our use of component suppliers in these markets. As we progress with these efforts, it will involve a significant investment of capital and other resources and entail various risks. These include risks attendant to obtaining necessary governmental approvals and the construction of the facilities in a timely manner and within cost estimates, the establishment of supply channels, the commencement of efficient manufacturing operations, and, ultimately, the acceptance of the products by our customers. While we expect the expansion to be successful, should we encounter difficulties involving these or similar factors, it may not be as successful as we anticipate.. We face significant competition and if we are unable to compete successfully against other agricultural equipment manufacturers, we would lose customers and our net sales and profitability would decline.. The agricultural equipment business is highly competitive, particularly in our major markets. Our two key competitors, Deere & Company and CNH Industrial N.V., are substantially larger than we are and have greater financial and other resources. In addition, in some markets, we compete with smaller regional competitors with significant market share in a single country or group of countries. Our competitors may substantially increase the resources devoted to the development and marketing, including discounting, of products that compete with our products. In addition, competitive pressures in the. 8. Table of Contents. agricultural equipment business may affect the market prices of new and used equipment, which, in turn, may adversely affect our sales margins and results of operations.. We maintain an independent dealer and distribution network in the markets where we sell products. The financial and operational capabilities of our dealers and distributors are critical to our ability to compete in these markets. In addition, we compete with other manufacturers of agricultural equipment for dealers. If we are unable to compete successfully against other agricultural equipment manufacturers, we could lose dealers and their end customers and our net sales and profitability may decline.. Rationalization or restructuring of manufacturing facilities, and plant expansions and system upgrades at our manufacturing facilities, may cause production capacity constraints and inventory fluctuations.. The rationalization of our manufacturing facilities has at times resulted in, and similar rationalizations or restructurings in the future may result in temporary constraints upon our ability to produce the quantity of products necessary to fill orders and thereby complete sales in a timely manner. In addition, system upgrades at our manufacturing facilities that impact ordering, production scheduling and other related manufacturing processes are complex, and could impact or delay production targets. A prolonged delay in our ability to fill orders on a timely basis could affect customer demand for our products and increase the size of our product inventories, causing future reductions in our manufacturing schedules and adversely affecting our results of operations. Moreover, our continuous development and production of new products often involves the retooling of existing manufacturing facilities. This retooling may limit our production capacity at certain times in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the expansion and reconfiguration of existing manufacturing facilities, as well as the start up of new manufacturing operations in emerging markets, such as China and Russia, could increase the risk of production delays, as well as require significant investments of capital.. We depend on suppliers for components, parts and raw materials for our products, and any failure by our suppliers to provide products as needed, or by us to promptly address supplier issues, will adversely impact our ability to timely and efficiently manufacture and sell products. We also are subject to raw material price fluctuations, which can adversely affect our manufacturing costs.. Our products include components and parts manufactured by others. As a result, our ability to timely and efficiently manufacture existing products, to introduce new products and to shift manufacturing of products from one facility to another depends on the quality of these components and parts and the timeliness of their delivery to our facilities. At any particular time, we depend on many different suppliers, and the failure by one or more of our suppliers to perform as needed will result in fewer products being manufactured, shipped and sold. If the quality of the components or parts provided by our suppliers is less than required and we do not recognize that failure prior to the shipment of our products, we will incur higher warranty costs. The timely supply of component parts for our products also depends on our ability to manage our relationships with suppliers, to identify and replace suppliers that fail to meet our schedules or quality standards, and to monitor the flow of components and accurately project our needs. The shift from our existing suppliers to new suppliers, including suppliers in emerging markets in the future, also may impact the quality and efficiency of our manufacturing capabilities, as well as impact warranty costs. A significant increase in the price of any component or raw material could adversely affect our profitability. We cannot avoid exposure to global price fluctuations, such as occurred in the past with the costs of steel and related products, and our profitability depends on, among other things, our ability to raise equipment and parts prices sufficient enough to recover any such material or component cost increases.. A majority of our sales and manufacturing take place outside the United States, and, as a result, we are exposed to risks related to foreign laws, taxes, economic conditions, labor supply and relations, political conditions and governmental policies as well as U.S. laws governing who we sell to and how we conduct business. These risks may delay or reduce our realization of value from our international operations.. A majority of our sales are derived from sales outside the United States. The foreign countries in which we do the most significant amount of business are Germany, France, Brazil, the United Kingdom, Finland and Canada. In addition, we have significant manufacturing operations in France, Germany, Brazil, Italy and Finland and have established manufacturing operations in emerging markets, such as China. Many of our sales involve products that are manufactured in one country and sold in a different country and therefore, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected by adverse changes in laws, taxes and tariffs, trade restrictions, economic conditions, labor supply and relations, political conditions and governmental policies of the countries in which we conduct business. Our business practices in these foreign countries must comply with U.S. law, including limitations on where and to whom we may sell products and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"). We have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of these laws, but. 9. Table of Contents. we cannot provide assurances that past violations have not occurred or that future violations will not occur. Significant violations could subject us to fines and other penalties as well as increased compliance costs. Some of our international operations also are, or might become, subject to various risks that are not present in domestic operations, including restrictions on dividends and the repatriation of funds. Foreign developing markets may present special risks, such as unavailability of financing, inflation, slow economic growth, price controls and difficulties in complying with U.S. regulations.. Domestic and foreign political developments and government regulations and policies directly affect the international agricultural industry, which affects the demand for agricultural equipment. If demand for agricultural equipment declines, our sales, growth, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. The application, modification or adoption of laws, regulations, trade agreements or policies adversely affecting the agricultural industry, including the imposition of import and export duties and quotas, expropriation and potentially burdensome taxation, could have an adverse effect on our business. The ability of our international customers to operate their businesses and the health of the agricultural industry, in general, are affected by domestic and foreign government programs that provide economic support to farmers. As a result, farm income levels and the ability of farmers to obtain advantageous financing and other protections would be reduced to the extent that any such programs are curtailed or eliminated. Any such reductions likely would result in a decrease in demand for agricultural equipment. For example, a decrease or elimination of current price protections for commodities or of subsidy payments for farmers in the European Union, the United States, Brazil or elsewhere in South America could negatively impact the operations of farmers in those regions, and, as a result, our sales may decline if these farmers delay, reduce or cancel purchases of our products. In emerging markets, some of these (and other) risks can be greater than they might be elsewhere. In addition, in some cases, the financing provided by our joint ventures with Rabobank or by others is supported by a government subsidy or guarantee. The programs under which those subsidies and guarantees are provided generally are of limited duration and subject to renewal and contain various caps and other limitations. In some markets, for example Brazil, this support is quite significant. In the event the governments that provide this support elect not to renew these programs, and were financing not available on reasonable terms, whether through our joint ventures or otherwise, our sales would be negatively impacted.. As a result of the multinational nature of our business and the acquisitions that we have made over time, our corporate and tax structures are complex, with a significant portion of our operations being held through foreign holding companies. As a result, it can be inefficient, from a tax perspective, for us to repatriate or otherwise transfer funds, and we may be subject to a greater level of tax-related regulation and reviews by multiple governmental units than would companies with a more simplified structure. In addition, our foreign and U.S. operations routinely sell products to, and license technology to other operations of ours. The pricing of these intra-company transactions is subject to regulation and review as well. While we make every effort to comply with all applicable tax laws, audits and other reviews by governmental units could result in our being required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties.. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U., commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\"  As a result of the referendum, it is expected that the British government will negotiate the terms of the U.K.'s future relationship with the E.U.  Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the U.K. and E.U. countries, increased regulatory complexities, and increased currency volatility, any of which could adversely affect our operations and financial results.. We can experience substantial and sustained volatility with respect to currency exchange rate and interest rate changes, which can adversely affect our reported results of operations and the competitiveness of our products.. We conduct operations in a variety of currencies. Our production costs, profit margins and competitive position are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we manufacture or purchase goods relative to the strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. In addition, we are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we denominate sales and to risks associated with translating the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries from local currencies into United States dollars. Similarly, changes in interest rates affect our results of operations by increasing or decreasing borrowing costs and finance income. Our most significant transactional foreign currency exposures are the Euro, the Brazilian real and the Canadian dollar in relation to the United States dollar, and the Euro in relation to the British pound. Where naturally offsetting currency positions do not occur, we attempt to manage these risks by economically hedging some, but not necessarily all, of our exposures through the use of foreign currency forward exchange or option contracts. As with all hedging instruments, there are risks associated with the use of foreign currency forward exchange or option contracts, interest rate swap agreements and other risk management contracts. While the use of such hedging instruments provides us with protection for a finite period of time from certain fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates, when we hedge we forego part or all the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates. In addition, any default by the counterparties to these transactions could. 10. Table of Contents. adversely affect us. Despite our use of economic hedging transactions, currency exchange rate or interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations, including increasingly stringent engine emissions standards, and our compliance with, or our failure to comply with, existing or future laws and regulations could delay production of our products or otherwise adversely affect our business.. We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. These regulations govern, among other things, emissions into the air, discharges into water, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances, waste disposal and the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. Our costs of complying with these or any other current or future environmental regulations may be significant. For example, several countries have adopted more stringent environmental regulations regarding emissions into the air, and it is possible that new emissions-related legislation or regulations will be adopted in connection with concerns regarding greenhouse gases. In addition, we may be subject to liability in connection with properties and businesses that we no longer own or operate. We may be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to our operations under existing laws or those that may be adopted in the future that could apply to both future and prior conduct. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions, or we may not be able to sell our products and, therefore, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. In addition, the products that we manufacture or sell, particularly engines, are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations. As a result, on an ongoing basis we incur significant engineering expenses and capital expenditures to modify our products to comply with these regulations. Further, we may experience production delays if we or our suppliers are unable to design and manufacture components for our products that comply with environmental standards. For instance, as we are required to meet more stringent engine emission reduction standards that are applicable to engines we manufacture or incorporate into our products, we expect to meet these requirements through the introduction of new technology to our products, engines and exhaust after-treatment systems, as necessary. Failure to meet such requirements could materially affect our business and results of operations.. We are subject to SEC disclosure obligations relating to \"conflict minerals\" (columbite-tantalite, cassiterite (tin), wolframite (tungsten) and gold) that are sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjacent countries. Complying with these requirements has and will require us to incur additional costs, including the costs to determine the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products and to modify our processes or products, if required.  As a result, we may choose to modify the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials in our products.  In addition, we may face reputational and regulatory risks if the information that we receive from our suppliers is inaccurate or inadequate, or our process in obtaining that information does not fulfill the SEC's requirements.  We have a formal policy with respect to the use of conflict minerals in our products that is intended to minimize, if not eliminate, conflict minerals sourced from the covered countries to the extent that we are unable to document that they have been obtained from conflict-free sources.. Our labor force is heavily unionized, and our contractual and legal obligations under collective bargaining agreements and labor laws subject us to the risks of work interruption or stoppage and could cause our costs to be higher.. Most of our employees, most notably at our manufacturing facilities, are subject to collective bargaining agreements and union contracts with terms that expire on varying dates. Several of our collective bargaining agreements and union contracts are of limited duration and, therefore, must be re-negotiated frequently. As a result, we incur various administrative expenses associated with union representation of our employees. Furthermore, we are at greater risk of work interruptions or stoppages than non-unionized companies, and any work interruption or stoppage could significantly impact the volume of products we have available for sale. In addition, collective bargaining agreements, union contracts and labor laws may impair our ability to reduce our labor costs by streamlining existing manufacturing facilities or restructuring our business because of limitations on personnel and salary changes and similar restrictions.. We have significant pension obligations with respect to our employees and our available cash flow may be adversely affected in the event that payments became due under any pension plans that are unfunded or underfunded. Declines in the market value of the securities used to fund these obligations result in increased pension expense in future periods.. A portion of our active and retired employees participate in defined benefit pension plans under which we are obligated to provide prescribed levels of benefits regardless of the value of the underlying assets, if any, of the applicable pension plan. To the extent that our obligations under a plan are unfunded or underfunded, we will have to use cash flow from operations and other sources to pay our obligations either as they become due or over some shorter funding period. In addition, since the assets that we already have provided to fund these obligations are invested in debt instruments and other securities,. 11. Table of Contents. the value of these assets varies due to market factors. Historically, these fluctuations have been significant and sometimes adverse, and there can be no assurances that they will not be significant in the future. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing the administration of our pension plans in certain countries, and the specific provisions, benefit formulas and related interpretations of such laws, regulations and provisions can be complex. Failure to properly administer the provisions of our pension plans and comply with applicable laws and regulations could have an adverse impact to our results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, we had substantial unfunded or underfunded obligations related to our pension and other postretirement health care benefits. See the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 for more information regarding our unfunded or underfunded obligations.. Our business routinely is subject to claims and legal actions, some of which could be material.. We routinely are a party to claims and legal actions incidental to our business. These include claims for personal injuries by users of farm equipment, disputes with distributors, vendors and others with respect to commercial matters, and disputes with taxing and other governmental authorities regarding the conduct of our business. While these matters generally are not material, it is entirely possible that a matter will arise that is material to our business.. In addition, we use a broad range of technology in our products. We developed some of this technology, we license some of this technology from others, and some of the technology is embedded in the components that we purchase from suppliers. From time-to-time, third parties make claims that the technology that we use violates their patent rights. While to date none of these claims have been significant, we cannot provide any assurances that there will not be significant claims in the future or that currently existing claims will not prove to be more significant than anticipated.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and, as a result, we are subject to certain restrictive covenants and payment obligations that may adversely affect our ability to operate and expand our business.. Our credit facility and certain other debt agreements have various financial and other covenants that require us to maintain certain total debt to EBITDA and interest coverage ratios. In addition, the credit facility and certain other debt agreements contain other restrictive covenants such as the incurrence of indebtedness and the making of certain payments, including dividends, and are subject to acceleration in the event of default. If we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result.. If any event of default were to occur, our lenders could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts due and payable, and our cash may become restricted. In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under our credit facility or certain other debt agreements could also result in an event of default under our other financing agreements.. Our substantial indebtedness could have other important adverse consequences such as:. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • restricting us from being able to introduce new products or pursuing business opportunities;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less indebtedness; and. • limiting, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, pay cash dividends or engage in or enter into certain transactions.. Our business increasingly is subject to regulations relating to privacy and data protection, and if we violate any of those regulations or otherwise are the victim of a cyber attack, we could incur significant losses and liability.. Increasingly the United States, the European Union and other governmental entities are imposing regulations designed to protect the collection, maintenance and transfer of personal information. For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\") that will impose more stringent data protection requirements and greater penalties for non-compliance beginning in May 2018.  The GDPR also protects a broader set of personal information than traditionally has been protected and provides for a right of \"erasure.\" Other regulations govern the collection and transfer of financial data and data security generally. These regulations generally impose penalties in the event of violations. As a result, we could be subject to cyber attacks that, if successful, could compromise our information technology systems and our ability. 12. Table of Contents. to conduct business. While we attempt to comply with all applicable cybersecurity regulations, their implementation is complex, and, if we are not successful, we may be subject to penalties and claims for damages from the impacted individuals.. In addition, our business relies on the Internet as well as other electronic communications systems that, by their nature, may be subject to efforts by so-called \"hackers\" to either disrupt our business or steal data or funds. While we strive to maintain customary protections against hackers, there can be no assurance that at some point a hacker will not breach those safeguards and damage our business, possibly materially. These damages could take many forms, including the interruption of our business, the loss of important data, and damage to our reputation.. We may encounter difficulties in integrating businesses we acquire and may not fully achieve, or achieve within a reasonable time frame, expected strategic objectives and other expected benefits of the acquisitions.. From time-to-time we seek to expand through acquisitions of other businesses. We expect to realize strategic and other benefits as a result of our acquisitions, including, among other things, the opportunity to extend our reach in the agricultural industry and provide our customers with an even wider range of products and services.  However, it is impossible to predict with certainty whether, or to what extent, these benefits will be realized or whether we will be able to integrate acquired businesses in a timely and effective manner. For example:. • the costs of integrating acquired businesses and their operations may be higher than we expect and may require significant attention from our management;. • the businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities, such as environmental liabilities or liabilities for violations of laws, such as the FCPA, that we did not expect; and. • our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategies for acquired businesses will be affected by, among other things, our ability to maintain and enhance our relationships with their existing customers, our ability to provide additional product distribution opportunities to them through our existing distribution channels, changes in the spending patterns and preferences of customers and potential customers, fluctuating economic and competitive conditions and our ability to retain their key personnel.. Our ability to address these issues will determine the extent to which we are able to successfully integrate, develop and grow acquired businesses and to realize the expected benefits of these transactions. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial condition following the transactions.. Changes to United States tax, tariff and import/export regulations may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. There have been ongoing discussions and commentary regarding potential significant changes to United States trade policies, treaties, tariffs and taxes.  Although it changes from period to period, we generally have substantial imports into the United States of products and components that are either produced in our foreign locations or are purchased from foreign suppliers, and also have substantial exports of products and components that we manufacture in the United States.  The impact of any changes to current trade, tariff or tax policies relating to imports and exports of goods is dependent on factors such as the treatment of exports as a credit to imports, and the introduction of any tariffs or taxes relating to imports from specific countries. It is unclear what changes might be considered or implemented and what response to any such changes may be by the governments of other countries. Any changes that increase the cost of international trade or otherwise impact the global economy could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\") was enacted in the United States. The 2017 Tax Act includes a number of changes to existing U.S. tax laws that impact us, including a reduction of the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. The 2017 Tax Act also provides for a one-time transition tax on certain foreign earnings and the acceleration of depreciation for certain assets placed into service after September 27, 2017, as well as prospective changes beginning in 2018, including the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction, capitalization of research and development expenditures, additional limitations on executive compensation and limitations on the deductibility of interest. Our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect both the income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act for which the accounting is complete as well as provisional amounts for those specific income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act for which the accounting is incomplete but a reasonable estimate could be determined. The final impact of the tax reform legislation may differ materially due to factors such as further refinement of our calculations, changes in interpretations and assumptions that we and our advisors have made, additional guidance that may be issued in the future by the U.S. government, and actions that the we may take as a result of the tax reform legislation. When more guidance and interpretations are released, specifically with respect to the transition tax and future repatriation of foreign earnings to the U.S.,. 13. Table of Contents. the Company will complete its accounting and revise any provisional estimates, if required. Future tax changes and interpretations could be adverse to our business or operations, such as new or additional taxes imposed on earnings and/or reinvested earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. The aggregate impact of such legislation could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations."
