[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, product upgrades and services that achieve market acceptance.. Our business is characterized by rapid and continual changes in technology and evolving industry standards.  We believe that in order to remain competitive in the future we will need to continue to develop new products, product upgrades and services, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. If we fail to accurately anticipate our customer's needs and technological trends, or are otherwise unable to complete the development of a product or product upgrade on a timely basis, we will be unable to introduce new products or product upgrades into the market on a timely basis, if at all, and our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected.. The development process for most new products and product upgrades is complicated, involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including:. • Managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally expected;. • Adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers; and. • Extending the operation of our products and services to new and evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as mobile devices.. If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. If we fail to meet our customers' performance expectations, our reputation may be harmed, and we may be exposed to legal liability.. Our ability to attract and retain customers depends to a large extent on our relationships with our customers and our reputation for high quality services and solutions. As a result, if a customer is not satisfied with our services or solutions, our reputation may be damaged. Moreover, if we fail to meet our clients' performance expectations, we may lose clients and be subject to legal liability, particularly if such failure adversely impacts our clients' businesses.. In addition, many of our projects are critical to the operations of our customers' businesses. While our contracts typically include provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our products and services, these provisions may not adequately protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. The general liability insurance coverage that we maintain, including coverage for errors and omissions, is subject to important exclusions and limitations. We cannot be certain that this coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. A successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect our profitability.. We face extensive competition in the markets in which we operate, and our failure to compete effectively could result in price reductions and/or decreased demand for our products and services.. Several companies offer products and services similar to ours.  The rapid rate of technological change in the hospitality market makes it likely we will face competition from new products designed by companies not currently competing with us.  We believe our competitive ability depends on our product offerings, our experience in the hospitality industry, our product development and systems integration capability, and our customer service organization.  There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to compete effectively in the hospitality technology market in the future.. 14. Table of Contents. We compete for customers based on several factors, including price.  In some cases, we may have to reduce our pricing to obtain business.  If we are not able to maintain favorable pricing for our products and services, our profit margin and our profitability could suffer.. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our software products may result in reduced sales or liabilities.. Our software may be used in connection with processing sensitive data (e.g., credit card numbers).  It may be possible for the data to be compromised if our customer does not maintain appropriate security procedures.  In those instances, the customer may attempt to seek damages from us.  While we believe that all of our current software complies with applicable industry security requirements and that we take appropriate security measures to reduce the possibility of breach through our support and other systems, we cannot assure that our customers' systems will not be breached, or that all unauthorized access can be prevented.  If a customer, or other person, seeks redress from us as a result of a security breach, our business could be adversely affected.. Cloud-based platform and software applications presents increased security risks.. As we expand our cloud-based platform and software hosting capabilities, including our rGuest products, and offer more of our software applications to our customers on a cloud-based basis, our responsibility for data and system security with respect to data held in our hosting centers increases significantly.  While we believe that our current platform, software applications and data centers comply with applicable laws and industry security requirements, and while we believe that we use appropriate security measures to reduce the possibility of unauthorized access or misuse of data in the data centers, we cannot provide absolute assurance that our cloud-based applications will not be breached, or that all unauthorized access can be prevented.  If a security breach were to occur, a customer, regulatory agency, or other person could seek redress from us, which could adversely affect our business.. If we fail to attract and retain key employees, our business may be harmed.. Our success depends on the skill, experience and dedication of our employees. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficiently experienced and capable personnel, especially in product development, customer services and support, operations, sales and management, our business and financial results may suffer. For example, if we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled technical personnel, our ability to develop high quality products and provide high quality customer service may be impaired. Experienced and capable personnel in the technology industry remain in high demand, and there is continual competition for their talents. When talented employees leave, we may have difficulty replacing them, and our business may suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully attract and retain the personnel that we need.. We may incur goodwill, intangible asset and capitalized software development impairment charges that adversely affect our operating results.. As of March 31, 2018 we had $19.6 million, $8.5 million, and $45.2 million of goodwill, intangible assets, net, and software development costs, net, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheet.  We review our goodwill, intangible assets and capitalized software development costs for impairment on at least an annual basis.  Our future operating results and the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected if we are required to write down the carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets or capitalized software development in the future.. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights.. While we do not believe that our products and services infringe any patents or other intellectual property rights, from time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. On April 6, 2012, Ameranth, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging that point-of-sale and property management and other hospitality information technology products sold by us infringe patents owned by Ameranth.  This lawsuit remains pending.. This lawsuit and any other such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. If we are found liable, we could be obligated to pay significant damages or enter into license agreements.. We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights.. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights would diminish or eliminate the competitive advantages that we derive from our proprietary technology.. 15. Table of Contents. We are subject to litigation, which may be costly.. As a company that does business with many customers, employees and suppliers, we are subject to litigation. The results of such litigation are difficult to predict, and we may incur significant legal expenses if any such claim were filed. While we generally take steps to reduce the likelihood that disputes will result in litigation, litigation is very commonplace and could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our cloud-based solutions present execution and competitive risks.. Our solutions offered in the cloud accessible via the web without present new and difficult technology challenges. These offerings depend on integration of third-party hardware, software and cloud hosting vendors working together with our products. As a result, we may be subject to claims if customers experience service disruptions, breaches or other quality issues related to our cloud-based solutions.. Continuing challenging global economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Global economic conditions continue to be challenging.  Our revenue and profitability depend significantly on general economic conditions and the level of capital available to our customers. Our business trends and revenue growth continue to be affected by the challenging economic climate. These difficult economic conditions and the uncertainty about future economic conditions may adversely affect our customers' level of spending, ability to obtain financing for purchases, ability to make timely payments to us and adoption of new technologies, which could require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, negatively impact our days sales outstanding, lead to increased price competition and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our dependence on certain strategic partners makes us vulnerable to the extent we rely on them.. We rely on a concentrated number of vendors for the majority of our hardware and for certain software and related services needs. We do not have long term agreements with many of these vendors. If we can no longer obtain these hardware, software or services needs from our major suppliers due to mergers, acquisitions or consolidation within the marketplace, material changes in their partner programs, their refusal to continue to supply to us on reasonable terms or at all, and we cannot find suitable replacement suppliers, it may have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and gross margins.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. While we believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, a controls system cannot provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the controls system are met, and no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected.. We have encountered risks associated with maintaining large cash balances.. While we have attempted to invest our cash balances in investments generally considered to be relatively safe, we nevertheless confront credit and liquidity risks.  Bank failures could result in reduced liquidity or the actual loss of money held in deposit accounts in excess of federally insured amounts, if any.. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities.. Some of our products and services may be subject to sales taxes in states where we have not collected and remitted such taxes from our customers. We have reserves for certain state sales tax contingencies based on the likelihood of obligation. These contingencies are included in \"Accrued liabilities\" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe we have appropriately accrued for these contingencies. In the event that actual results differ from these reserves, we may need to make adjustments, which could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations.. If we acquire new businesses, we may not be able to successfully integrate them or attain the anticipated benefits.. As part of our operating history and growth strategy, we have acquired other businesses. In the future, we may continue to seek acquisitions. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire targeted businesses or obtain financing for such acquisitions on satisfactory terms. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our operations may result in unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects.. 16. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to the Industries We Serve. Our business depends to a significant degree on the hospitality industry and a weakening could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Because our customer base is concentrated in the hospitality industry, our business is largely dependent on the health of that industry. Our sales are dependent in large part on the health of the hospitality industry, which in turn is dependent on the domestic and international economy.  Instabilities or downturns in the hospitality industry could disproportionately impact our revenue, as clients may exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce planned expenditures for our products. A general downturn in the hospitality industry could disproportionately impact our revenue, as clients may exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce planned expenditures for our products.. Higher oil and gas prices worldwide could have a material adverse impact on the hospitality industry, and indirectly, on our business.. Material increases in oil and gas prices tend to reduce discretionary spending by consumers, such as on travel and dining, as well as on retail spending generally.  Reductions in discretionary spending by consumers adversely affects our customers and, indirectly, our business.  Moreover, increases in oil and gas prices also directly adversely affects our customer base in other ways.  For example, oil and gas price increases can result in higher ingredient and food costs for our restaurant customers.. Consolidation in the casino and hospitality industry could adversely affect our business.. Customers that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. The hospitality industry has experienced recent consolidations, including the hotel and casino sectors of the industry. Although recent consolidations in the hospitality industry have not materially adversely affected our business, there is no assurance that future consolidations will not have such affect. For example, if one of our current customers merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider's products or services, it could decide to reduce or cease its purchases of products or services from us, which could have an adverse effect our business.. Risks Relating to Our Stock. Our stock has been volatile and we expect that it will continue to be volatile.. Our stock price has been volatile, and we expect it will continue to be volatile. For example, during the year ended March 31, 2018, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a high close of $12.85 to a low close of $9.13. The market price for our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock may include:. • economic news or other events generally affecting the trading markets;. • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period or failure of securities analysts to publish reports about us or our business;. • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new offerings or improvements, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;. • our ability to market new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis;. • any major change in our board or management; general economic and political conditions such as recessions, interest rates, fuel prices, international currency fluctuations and acts of war or terrorism.. Additionally, our ownership base has been and may continue to be concentrated in a few shareholders, which could increase the volatility of our common share price over time.. 17. Table of Contents. Our largest shareholder, MAK Capital, currently holds approximately 23% of our common shares, which could impact corporate policy and strategy, and MAK Capital's interests may differ from those of other shareholders.. Pursuant to the approval by shareholders of a control share acquisition proposal, MAK Capital holds approximately 23% of our outstanding common shares. As a significant shareholder whose responses could potentially affect the interests of Agilysys and the other shareholders, our Board may consider MAK Capital's potential response to a particular decision of the Board in considering the range of possible corporate policies and strategies in the future, potentially influencing corporate policy and strategic planning.. MAK entered into a Voting Trust Agreement with Computershare, as trustee, which provides that, for both strategic and other transactions requiring at least two-thirds of the voting power to approve, the trustee will vote a certain percentage of MAK Capital's shares in favor of, against, or abstaining from voting in the same proportion as all other shares voted by shareholders (including MAK Capital's shares not being voted by the trustee). If the Voting Trust Agreement, as amended, that MAK entered into with Computershare were to terminate for any reason, MAK Capital would have a level of control that would highly influence the approval or disapproval of transactions requiring under Ohio law the approval of two-thirds of the outstanding common shares, such as a business combination, or majority share acquisition involving the issuance of common shares entitling the holders to exercise one-sixth or more of the voting power of our common shares, each of which requires approval by two-thirds of the outstanding common shares. MAK Capital might also be able to initiate or substantially assist any such transaction. Even with the limitations on MAK Capital's voting power imposed by the Voting Trust Agreement, as amended, it would be more difficult for the other shareholders to approve such a transaction if MAK Capital opposed it, and MAK Capital's interests may differ from those of other shareholders.. 18. Table of Contents"
