[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Our operations are affected by various risks, many of which are beyond our control. In evaluating investment in the Company and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time, you should consider the following risk factors. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made and could adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock as well. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that adversely affect our business, performance, or financial condition in the future that are not presently known, are not currently believed to be significant, or are not identified below because they are common to all businesses.. Unfavorable conditions in the global economy, the markets we serve, or the financial markets, may decrease the demand for our goods and services and adversely impact our revenues, operating results, and cash flows.. Demand for the Company's products and services depends in part on the general economic conditions affecting the countries and markets in which the Company does business. Weak economic conditions in certain geographies and changing supply and demand balances in markets served by the Company have impacted in the past and may impact in the future demand for the Company's products and services, in turn negatively impacting the Company's revenues and earnings. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales, affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility, impact efficient utilization of the Company's manufacturing capacity, or result in charges which are unusual or nonrecurring. Excess capacity in the Company's or its competitors' manufacturing facilities can decrease the Company's ability to maintain pricing and generate profits.. 7. Table of Contents. Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or deteriorating economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment. A decline in the industries served by our customers or adverse events or circumstances affecting individual customers can impair the ability of such customers to satisfy their obligations to the Company, resulting in uncollected receivables, unanticipated contract terminations, project delays, or inability to recover plant investments negatively impacting our financial results.. Weak overall demand or specific customer conditions may also cause customer shutdowns or default, or other inabilities to operate facilities profitably, and may force sale or abandonment of facilities and equipment or prevent projects from coming on-stream. These or other events associated with weak economic conditions or specific end market, product, or customer events may require the Company to record an impairment on tangible assets, such as facilities and equipment, or intangible assets, such as intellectual property or goodwill, which would have a negative impact on our financial results.. Our extensive international operations can be adversely impacted by operational, economic, political, security, legal risks, and currency translation, that could decrease profitability.. In 2017, over 60% of our sales were derived from customers outside the United States and many of our operations, suppliers, and employees are located outside the United States. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the United States, particularly in high-growth markets. Our operations in foreign jurisdictions may be subject to risks including exchange control regulations, import and trade restrictions, and trade policy and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad. Changing economic and political conditions within foreign jurisdictions, strained relations between countries, or imposition of international sanctions can cause fluctuations in demand, price volatility, supply disruptions, or loss of property. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operation, and cash flows.. We are actively investing significant capital and other resources in developing markets, which present special risks, including through joint ventures. Our developing market operations may be subject to greater risks than those faced by our operations in mature economies, including political and economic instability, project delay or abandonment due to unanticipated government actions, inadequate investment in infrastructure, undeveloped property rights and legal systems, unfamiliar regulatory environments, relationships with local partners, language and cultural differences and talent risks. Our contractual relationship within these jurisdictions may be subject to cancellation without full compensation for loss. Successful operation of particular facilities or projects may be disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, and other local security concerns. Such concerns may require us to incur greater costs for security or to shut down operations for a period of time.. Because the majority of our revenue is generated from sales outside the United States, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our business is primarily exposed to translational currency risk as the results of our foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates throughout the fiscal period. Our policy is to minimize cash flow volatility from changes in currency exchange rates. We choose not to hedge the translation of our foreign subsidiaries' earnings into dollars. Accordingly, reported sales, net earnings, cash flows, and fair values have been and in the future will be affected by changes in foreign exchange rates. For a more detailed discussion of currency exposure, see Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, below.. Operational and project execution risks may adversely affect our operations or financial results.. The operation of our facilities, pipelines, and delivery systems inherently entails hazards that require continuous oversight and control, such as pipeline leaks and ruptures, fire, explosions, toxic releases, mechanical failures, or vehicle accidents. If operational risks materialize, they could result in loss of life, damage to the environment, or loss of production, all of which could negatively impact our ongoing operations, reputation, financial results, and cash flows. In addition, our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our production facilities and our ability to meet customer requirements, which depends, in part, on our ability to properly maintain and replace aging assets.. 8. Table of Contents. Some of our projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes up to several years. We may encounter difficulties in engineering, delays in designs or materials provided by the customer or a third party, equipment and materials delivery delays, schedule changes, delays from customer failure to timely obtain regulatory permits and rights-of-way, inability to find adequate sources of labor in the geographies where we are building new plants, weather-related delays, delays by subcontractors in completing their portion of the project and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, but which may impact our ability to complete a project within the original delivery schedule. In some cases, delays and additional costs may be substantial, and we may be required to cancel a project and/or compensate the customer for the delay. We may not be able to recover any of these costs. These factors could also negatively impact our reputation or relationships with our customers, which could adversely affect our ability to secure new contracts.. We are subject to extensive government regulation in jurisdictions around the globe in which we do business. Regulations addressing, among other things, environmental compliance, import/export restrictions, anti-bribery and corruption, and taxes, can negatively impact our financial condition, results of operation, and cash flows.. We are subject to government regulation in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in which we conducts our business. The application of laws and regulations to our business is sometimes unclear. Compliance with laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practice that could result in reduced profitability. Determination of noncompliance can result in penalties or sanctions that could also impact financial results. Compliance with changes in laws or regulations can require additional capital expenditures or increase operating costs. Export controls or other regulatory restrictions could prevent us from shipping our products to and from some markets or increase the cost of doing so. Changes in tax laws and regulations and international tax treaties could affect the financial results of our businesses. Increasingly aggressive enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption requirements, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act and the China Anti-Unfair Competition Law, could subject us to criminal or civil sanctions if a violation occurs. In addition, we are subject to laws and sanctions imposed by the U.S. or by other jurisdictions where we do business that may prohibit us or certain of our affiliates from doing business in certain countries, or restricting the kind of business that may be conducted. Such restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to competitors who are not subject to comparable restrictions or prevent us from taking advantage of growth opportunities.. Further, we cannot guarantee that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by employees, agents or our business partners (or of businesses we acquire or partner with) that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, kickbacks and false claims, pricing, sales and marketing practices, conflicts of interest, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions or allegations of such acts could damage our reputation and subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the United States and in other jurisdictions and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable as a successor for violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire.. We may be unable to successfully execute or effectively integrate acquisitions, or effectively disentangle divested businesses.. Our ability to grow revenue, earnings, and cash flow at anticipated rates depends in part on our ability to identify, successfully acquire and integrate businesses and assets at appropriate prices; and realize expected synergies and operating efficiencies. We may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by the failure of acquired businesses or assets to meet expected returns, the failure to integrate acquired businesses, the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions, and the discovery of unanticipated liabilities or other problems in acquired businesses or assets for which we lack contractual protections or insurance. We may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions that do not meet expectations.. We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment. These transactions pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business and financial statements. For example, when we decide to sell or otherwise dispose of a business or assets, we may be unable to do so on satisfactory terms within our anticipated time frame or at all. In addition, divestitures or other dispositions may dilute our earnings per share, have other adverse financial and accounting impacts and distract management, and disputes may arise with buyers. In addition, we have agreed and may in the future agree to indemnify buyers against known and unknown contingent liabilities. Our financial results could be impacted by claims under these indemnities.. 9. Table of Contents. The security of our Information Technology systems could be compromised, which could adversely affect our ability to operate.. We depend on information technology to enable us to operate efficiently and interface with customers as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. Our information technology capabilities are delivered through a combination of internal and external services and service providers. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to our confidential business information or multiple site impact through a security breach. In addition, these systems may be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events, and in any such circumstances our system redundancy and other disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate. Security breaches of our systems (or the systems of our customers, suppliers or other business partners) could result in the misappropriation, destruction or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers.. As with most large systems, our information technology systems have in the past been and in the future likely will be subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, unauthorized access and other cyber-attacks, and we expect the sophistication and frequency of such attacks to continue to increase. To date, we are not aware of any significant impact on our operations or financial results from such attempts; however, unauthorized access could disrupt our business operations, result in the loss of assets, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Any of the attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above could interrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers' intellectual property and trade secrets, damage customer and business partner relationships and our reputation, or result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased costs for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements.. Our business involves the use, storage, and transmission of information about our employees, vendors, and customers. The protection of such information, as well as our information, is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. We have established policies and procedures to help protect the security and privacy of this information. We also, from time to time, export sensitive customer data and technical information to recipients outside the United States. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers, or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business.. Interruption in ordinary sources of raw material or energy supply or an inability to recover increases in energy and raw material costs from customers could result in lost sales or reduced profitability.. Hydrocarbons, including natural gas, are the primary feedstock for the production of hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and syngas. Energy, including electricity, natural gas, and diesel fuel for delivery trucks, is the largest cost component of our business. Because our industrial gas facilities use substantial amounts of electricity, energy price fluctuations could materially impact our revenues and earnings. A disruption in the supply of energy, components, or raw materials, whether due to market conditions, legislative or regulatory actions, natural events, or other disruption, could prevent us from meeting our contractual commitments, harming our business and financial results.. Our supply of crude helium for purification and resale is largely dependent upon natural gas production by crude helium suppliers. Lower natural gas production resulting from natural gas pricing dynamics, supplier operating or transportation issues (such as the Qatar embargo) or other interruptions in sales from crude helium suppliers, can reduce our supplies of crude helium available for processing and resale to customers.. We typically contract to pass through cost increases in energy and raw materials to customers, but cost variability can still have a negative impact on our results. We may be unable to raise prices as quickly as costs rise, or competitive pressures may prevent full recovery. Increases in energy or raw material costs that cannot be passed on to customers for competitive or other reasons would negatively impact our revenues and earnings. Even where costs are passed through, price increases can cause lower sales volume.. 10. Table of Contents. Catastrophic events could disrupt our operations or the operations of our suppliers or customers, having a negative impact on our business, financial results, and cash flows.. Our operations could be impacted by catastrophic events outside our control, including severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, storms, epidemics, or acts of war and terrorism. Any such event could cause a serious business disruption that could affect our ability to produce and distribute products and possibly expose it to third-party liability claims. Additionally, such events could impact our suppliers or customers, in which event energy and raw materials may be unavailable to us, or our customers may be unable to purchase or accept our products and services. Any such occurrence could have a negative impact on our operations and financial results.. New technologies create performance risks that could impact our financial results or reputation.. We are continually developing and implementing new technologies and product offerings. Existing technologies are being implemented in products and designs or at scales beyond our experience base. These technological expansions can create nontraditional performance risks to our operations. Failure of the technologies to work as predicted or unintended consequences of new designs or uses could lead to cost overruns, project delays, financial penalties, or damage to our reputations. Large scale gasification projects may contain processes or technologies that we have not operated at the same scale or in the same combination and, although such projects generally include technologies and processes that have been demonstrated previously by others, such technologies or processes may be new to us.. Our financial results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings, including those involving antitrust, tax, environmental, or other matters.. We are subject to litigation and regulatory investigations and proceedings in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. While we seek to limit our liability in our commercial contractual arrangements, there are no guarantees that each contract will contain suitable limitations of liability or that limitations of liability will be enforceable at law. Also, the outcome of existing legal proceedings may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to predict reliably. Various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables, where applicable, or make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments, or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement, or unfavorable development could result in charges that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows in any particular period.. Costs and expenses resulting from compliance with environmental regulations may negatively impact our operations and financial results.. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions in the air; discharges to land and water; and the generation, handling, treatment, and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. We take our environmental responsibilities very seriously, but there is a risk of environmental impact inherent in our manufacturing operations and transportation of our products. Future developments and more stringent environmental regulations may require us to make additional unforeseen environmental expenditures. In addition, laws and regulations may require significant expenditures for environmental protection equipment, compliance, and remediation. These additional costs may adversely affect financial results. For a more detailed description of these matters, see Item 1 - Business Environmental Controls, above.. 11. Table of Contents. Legislative, regulatory and societal responses to global climate change create financial risk.. We are the world's leading supplier of hydrogen, the primary use of which is the production of ultra-low sulfur transportation fuels that have significantly reduced transportation emissions and helped improve human health. To make the high volumes of hydrogen needed by our customers, we use steam methane reforming, which releases carbon dioxide. Some of our operations are within jurisdictions that have or are developing regulatory regimes governing emissions of greenhouse gases (\"GHG\"), including carbon dioxide. These include existing coverage under the European Union Emission Trading Scheme, California and Ontario cap and trade schemes, Alberta's Specified Gas Emitters Regulation, China's Emission Trading Scheme pilots, South Korea's Emission Trading Scheme, and mandatory reporting and anticipated constraints on GHG emissions under an Ontario cap and trade scheme, nation-wide expansion of the China Emission Trading Scheme, and revisions to the Alberta regulation. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") requires mandatory reporting of GHG emissions and is regulating GHG emissions for new construction and major modifications to existing facilities. Some jurisdictions have various mechanisms to target the power sector to achieve emission reductions, which often result in higher power costs.. Increased public concern may result in more international, U.S. federal, and/or regional requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of GHG. Although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs related to consumption of electric power and hydrogen production. We believe it will be able to mitigate some of the increased costs through contractual terms, but the lack of definitive legislation or regulatory requirements prevents an accurate estimate of the long-term impact these measures will have on our operations. Any legislation that limits or taxes GHG emissions could negatively impact our growth, increase our operating costs, or reduce demand for certain of our products.. Implementation of the United Kingdom's (\"UK\") exit from European Union (\"EU\") membership, or recent political instability in Spain, could adversely affect our European Operations.. The UK's exit from EU membership may adversely affect customer demand, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our European business. Although it is unknown what the terms of the United Kingdom's future relationship with the EU will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the United Kingdom and EU members and increased regulatory complexities. Any of these factors could adversely affect customer demand, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our European business.. In addition, there has been recent political instability in Catalonia, Spain.  We maintain an administrative office in Catalonia which provides transactional accounting and other support services for our entire European business, and fiscal year 2017 sales of approximately US$320 million were attributable to Spain.  These operations could be impacted by the outcome of the current unrest.. Inability to compete effectively in a segment could adversely impact sales and financial performance.. We face strong competition from several large global competitors and many smaller regional ones in many of our business segments. Introduction by competitors of new technologies, competing products, or additional capacity could weaken demand for or impact pricing of our products, negatively impacting financial results. In addition, competitors' pricing policies could affect our profitability or market share.. The Company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or foreign tax  legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities.. The multinational nature of our business subjects us to taxation in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. The company's future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. For example, the United States Congress is considering comprehensive tax reform  which, among other things, may significantly reduce the corporate tax rate and change certain U.S. tax rules impacting the way U.S. based multinationals are taxed on foreign income. Changes to the tax system in the United States, particularly a proposed mandatory deemed repatriation tax, could have a material impact to our financial statements. The cumulative undistributed earnings that are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign subsidiaries and corporate joint ventures on the consolidated balance sheets amounted to $6,032.5 as of 30 September 2017. The potential impact of the mandatory deemed repatriation proposal and other proposals is uncertain at this time, especially as the outcome of U.S. tax reform discussions is unknown. At this time, we are properly reflecting the provision for taxes on income using all current enacted global tax laws in every jurisdiction in which we operate.. 12. Table of Contents. We could incur significant liability if the distribution of Versum common stock to our stockholders is determined to be a taxable transaction.. We have received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the spin-off of Versum qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Versum and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, our shareholders and we may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel we have received, the IRS could determine on audit that the spin-off is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. If the spin-off is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities."
