[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider each of the risks described below before purchasing shares of our common stock. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks that may affect our business. Our business could also be affected by additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to the Proposed Merger.. There are material uncertainties and risks associated with the proposed Merger Agreement and Merger.. On April 24, 2017, we signed the Merger Agreement with Fresenius Kabi. Below are material uncertainties and risks associated with the Merger Agreement and the proposed Merger.  If any of the risks develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results and ongoing operations, stock price or prospects could be materially adversely affected.. • The announcement and pendency of the Merger may impede Akorn's ability to retain and hire key personnel, its ability to maintain relationships with its customers, suppliers and others with whom it does business, or its operating results and business generally;. • The attention of our employees and management may be diverted due to activities related to the Merger, which may affect our business operations;. • Matters relating to the Merger (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by Akorn management, which could harm our relationships with our employees, customers, distributors, suppliers or other business partners, and may result in a loss of or a substantial decrease in purchases by our customers;. • The Merger Agreement restricts us from engaging in certain actions without the approval of Fresenius Kabi, which could prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities outside the ordinary course of business that arise prior to the closing of the Merger;. • Shareholder litigation in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement may result in significant costs of defense, indemnification and liability; and. • The outcome of the Company's and Fresenius Kabi's investigations into alleged breaches of FDA data integrity requirements relating to product development at the Company, and any actions taken by the Company, Fresenius Kabi, third parties or the FDA as a result of such investigations may result in significant costs.. The proposed Merger may not be completed in a timely manner or at all.. Completion of the Merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including but not limited to (1) there being no judgment or law enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the Merger, (2) the expiration of the waiting period applicable to the Merger under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, as well as (3) the other party's representations and warranties being true and correct (subject to certain materiality exceptions) and the other party having performed in all material respects its obligations under the Merger Agreement. There is no assurance that the required regulatory approvals will be obtained, nor that the required closing conditions will be satisfied, and no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of any approvals.  Lawsuits have been filed and threatened against Akorn relating to the Merger and an adverse ruling in any such lawsuit may prevent the Merger from being completed in the time frame expected or at all. If the Merger is delayed or not completed, we may suffer a number of consequences, including a decline in our share price to the extent that the current price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the merger will be completed; negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community and loss of business opportunities. Further, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional advisors and other transaction costs in connection with the Merger, and these fees and costs are payable by us regardless of whether the Merger is consummated.  In addition, Akorn could be subject to litigation related to any failure to consummate the Merger or any related action that could be brought to enforce a party's obligation under the Merger Agreement.. Risks Related to Our Business.. Our growth depends on our ability to timely and efficiently develop and successfully launch and market new pharmaceutical products.. Our strategy for growth is dependent upon our ability to develop products that can be promoted through current marketing and distribution channels and, when appropriate, the enhancement of such marketing and distribution channels. We may fail to. 15. meet our anticipated time schedule for the filing of new applications or may decide not to pursue applications that we have already submitted or had anticipated submitting. Our internal development of new pharmaceutical products is dependent upon the research and development capabilities of our personnel and our strategic business alliance infrastructure. We and our strategic business alliance partners might fail to develop new pharmaceutical products or acquired IPR&D or, if developed, we might fail to commercialize these new pharmaceutical products. In addition, we might not receive all necessary regulatory approvals or such approvals might involve delays, which may adversely affect the commercial success of our products. Our failure to develop new products or to receive regulatory approval of applications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if successfully developed and launched, no assurance can be given as to the actual size of the market for any product or the level of profitability and sales of the product.. We could experience business interruptions at our manufacturing facilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We manufacture drug products at two international and three domestic manufacturing facilities, and we have contracted with third parties to provide other manufacturing, finishing, and packaging services. Any one or more of these facilities may be forced to shut down or may be unable to operate at full capacity as a result of hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fire, contamination, power shortages, strikes, terrorist acts, governmental regulation or natural or man-made catastrophic events or other business interruptions.  For example, our manufacturing facility in Somerset, New Jersey was shut down for approximately two weeks in October and November 2012 as a result of power outages and related business disruptions caused by Superstorm Sandy.  A significant disruption at any of these facilities, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship drug products to the market on a timely basis, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenues are generated through the sale of products manufactured by third parties, the loss or failure of any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. Certain of the pharmaceutical products that we market, representing a significant portion of our net revenue, are manufactured by third parties that serve as our only supplier of those products. Any delays or failure of a contract manufacturing partner to supply finished goods timely or in adequate volume could impede our marketing of those products. We expect this risk to become more significant as we receive approvals for new products to be manufactured through our strategic partnerships and as we seek additional growth opportunities beyond the capacity and capabilities of our current manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers for these products on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to distribute such products as planned.  Any delays or difficulties with third-party manufacturers could adversely affect the marketing and distribution of certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on a small number of wholesalers to distribute our products, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A small number of large wholesale drug distributors account for a significant portion of our gross sales, net revenue and accounts receivable. The following three wholesalers  -  Amerisource, Cardinal and McKesson  -  accounted for approximately 80% of total gross sales and 64% of total net revenue in 2017, and constituted 86% of gross trade receivables as of December 31, 2017. In addition to acting as distributors of our products, these three companies also distribute a broad range of healthcare products on behalf of many other companies. The loss of our relationship with one or more of these wholesalers, together with a delay or inability to secure an alternative distribution source for our hospital, retail and other customers, could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations.  A change in purchasing patterns or inventory levels, an increase in returns of our products, delays in purchasing products and delays in payment for products by one or more of these wholesale drug distributors also could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, results of operations and cash flows.. We may be subject to significant disruptions or failures in our information technology systems and network infrastructures that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and network infrastructures to operate our business. We also hold data in various data center facilities upon which our business depends. Although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation.  Any significant disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems or any of our data centers as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, system implementations or. 16. upgrades, computer viruses, third-party security breaches, employee error, theft, misuse or malfeasance could cause breaches of data security, loss of intellectual property and critical data and the release and misappropriation of sensitive competitive information. Any of these events could result in the loss of key information, impair our production and supply chain processes, damage our reputation in the marketplace, deter people from purchasing our products, cause us to incur significant costs to remedy any damages, subject us to significant civil and criminal liability and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses, and ultimately materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and price of our common stock.. We depend on our employees and must continue to attract and retain key personnel in order to compete successfully, and any failure to do so could hinder successful execution of our business and development plans and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation.. Our performance depends, to a large extent, on the continued service of our key R&D personnel, other technical employees, managers and sales personnel and our ability to continue to attract and retain such personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, particularly for highly motivated and experienced R&D and other technical personnel. We are facing increasing competition from companies with greater financial resources for such personnel. As a result, we might not be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled personnel in the future, and the inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, and on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our inability to effectively manage or support our growth may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity and could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. We have grown rapidly as a result of several acquisitions, and additional growth through acquisitions is possible in the future. This growth has put significant demands on our processes, systems and people. Attracting, retaining and motivating key employees in various departments and locations to support our growth are critical to our business, and competition for these people can be significant. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees and if we do not effectively invest in systems and processes to manage and support our growth and the challenges and difficulties associated with managing a larger, more complex business, and if we cannot effectively manage and integrate our increasingly diverse and global platform, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows, and the price of our common stock could decline.. We have entered into several strategic business alliances that may not result in marketable products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. We have entered into several strategic business alliances that are designed to provide products that can be marketed through our marketing and distribution channels. These agreements might not result in additional FDA approved products, and we might not be able to market any such additional products at a profit. In addition, any costs that we may incur in connection with these strategic business alliances may negatively impact our financial results.. We become involved in legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time, any of which may result in substantial losses, government enforcement actions, damage to our business and reputation and place a strain on our internal resources.. In the ordinary course of our business, we become involved in legal proceedings with both private parties and certain government agencies, including the FDA.  The restatement of our previously issued 2014 financial statements and the previous delay in our filing of 2015 financial statements resulted in various governmental investigations and shareholder lawsuits requiring our management to devote significant time and attention to these matters.  This and any other substantial litigation may result in verdicts against us and government enforcement actions which may include significant monetary awards, judgments that certain of our intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable and injunctions preventing the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. If disputes are resolved unfavorably, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any litigation, whether or not successful, may damage our reputation. Furthermore, we are likely to incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits and the time demands of such lawsuits could divert management's attention from ongoing business concerns and interfere with our normal operations. See Part II, Item 8, Note 20 - \"Legal Proceedings.. Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. 17. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\") business acquisition accounting standards, we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain. After we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flow:. • costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses;. • impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, including acquired IPR&D;. • amortization of intangible assets acquired;. • a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired;. • identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, contingent purchase price consideration, income tax contingencies and other non-income tax contingencies, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first;. • charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-acquisition activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure;. • charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition;. • changes to contingent consideration liabilities, including accretion and fair value adjustments. A significant portion of these adjustments could be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. Such charges could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flow, and could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. As of December 31, 2017, we had recorded $285.3 million and $569.5 million of Goodwill and Intangible assets, net, respectively on our consolidated balance sheet.. Failure to obtain regulatory certification of our manufacturing facility in India for production of pharmaceutical products for export to the United States, as well as other regulated world markets, could impair our ability to grow and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate a manufacturing campus in Paonta Sahib, India, which we acquired through a business combination in 2012. The manufacturing site has not yet received approval by the FDA to manufacture products for export to the United States. It is our intention to obtain certification from the FDA and other regulatory authorities to allow this facility to manufacture products for export to the United States and other regulated world markets.  An inability to obtain or maintain such certification could restrict our ability to achieve our growth objectives, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions and we may face integration difficulties, which could adversely affect our operating results, increase costs and place a significant strain on our management.. If we fail to manage the integration of our acquisitions and fail to achieve expected synergies and revenue growth, our business could be disrupted and our operating results could be negatively impacted. The operating success of our acquisitions involves the integration of products, processes and personnel into our business. In addition, the integration of acquisitions may require establishing or training a local management team and overseeing the operations remotely, and can involve cultural, monetary and systems challenges. Our personnel, systems, procedures, or controls may not be adequate to support both our ongoing business and the acquired businesses. If any newly-acquired businesses or assets require a disproportionate share of our resources and management's attention, our overall financial results may suffer.. John N. Kapoor, Ph.D., through his stock ownership and his right to nominate up to three directors, could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and have substantial influence over our business strategies and policies.. John N. Kapoor, Ph.D., is a principal shareholder. As of December 31, 2017, Dr. Kapoor beneficially owns approximately 23% of our common stock.  In addition, through the Kapoor Trust and EJ Financial, Dr. Kapoor is entitled to nominate up to three persons to serve on our Board. Mr. Brian Tambi was nominated for these purposes. The other seats for nomination are vacant. Nomination of any directors to our Board or any trading of our common stock by Dr. Kapoor and his related parties could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and an adverse effect on our business.. 18. Risks Related to Our Industry.. Many of the raw materials and components used in our products come from a single source, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We require raw materials and components to manufacture and package pharmaceutical products. The principal components of our products are active and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials. Many of these materials are available from only a single source and, in the case of many of our products, only one supplier of raw materials has been identified and qualified. Because FDA approval of drugs requires manufacturers to specify their proposed suppliers of active ingredients and certain packaging materials in their applications, FDA approval of any new supplier would be required if such active ingredients or such packaging materials were no longer available from the specified supplier. The qualification of a new supplier could delay our development and marketing efforts. If for any reason we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of any of the raw materials or components required to produce and package our products, we may not be able to manufacture our products as planned.. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our customer base, which may have a material adverse effect on our business plans, financial position and results of operations.. Drug wholesalers, drug retailers, and group purchasing organizations have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. Such consolidation has provided and may continue to provide them with additional purchasing leverage, and consequently may increase the pricing pressures that we face. Our net revenue and quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of retail chains, major distributors and other trade buyers, whether resulting from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors. In addition, since such a significant portion of our revenues is derived from relatively few customers, any financial difficulties experienced by a single customer, or any delay in receiving payments from a single customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our branded products may become subject to increased generic competition.. Trends moving toward increased substitution and reimbursement of generics for cost-containment purposes may reduce and limit the sales of our off-patent branded products. Additionally, increased focus by the FDA on approval of generics may accelerate this trend.. Changes in technology could render our products obsolete.. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid technological change. The products that we sell today and their drug delivery methods may be replaced by more effective methods to deliver the same care, rendering our current products obsolete. Further, the technologies that we invest in for future use may not become the preferred method of delivery.. Risks Related to Regulations.. We are subject to extensive government regulations which if they change and or we are not in compliance with, could increase our costs, subject us to various obligations and fines, or prevent us from selling our products or operating our facilities.. New, modified and additional regulations, statutes or legal interpretation, if any, could, among other things, require changes to manufacturing methods, expanded or different labeling, recall, replacement or discontinuation of certain products, additional recordkeeping procedures, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and additional scientific substantiation. Such changes or new legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Certain of the regulatory risks that we are subject to are outlined below:. We must obtain approval from the FDA for each prescription pharmaceutical product that we market and the timing of such approval process is unknown and uncertain. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy, and approval is never certain. Our new products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval and may never gain approval. Even if the FDA or another regulatory agency approves a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for a product, may otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute a product or may require post-marketing studies or impose other post-marketing obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on marketability and profitability of the new products.. 19. We and our third-party manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA to assure regulatory compliance regarding the manufacturing, distribution, and promotion of pharmaceutical products. The FDA imposes stringent mandatory requirements on the manufacture and distribution of pharmaceutical products to ensure their safety and efficacy. The FDA also regulates drug labeling and the advertising of prescription drugs. A finding by a governmental agency or court that we are not in compliance with FDA requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to recalls and other enforcement actions by the FDA. The FDA or other government agencies having regulatory authority over pharmaceutical products may request us to voluntarily or involuntarily conduct product recalls due to disputed labeling claims, manufacturing issues, quality defects or for other reasons. Restriction or prohibition on sales, halting of manufacturing operations, recalls of our pharmaceutical products or other enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, such actions, in certain circumstances, may constitute an event of default under the terms of our various financing arrangements.. If the FDA changes its regulatory policies, it could force us to delay or suspend our manufacturing, distribution or sales of certain products. FDA interpretations of existing or pending regulations and standards may change over time with the advancement of associated technologies, industry trends, or prevailing scientific rationale. If the FDA changes its regulatory policies due to such factors, it could result in delay or suspension of the manufacturing, distribution or sales of certain of our products. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals which may or may not be granted and which may be subject to a lengthy application process. Any change in the FDA's enforcement policy or any decision by the FDA to require an approved application for one of our products not currently subject to the approved application requirements or any delay in the FDA approving an application for one of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to extensive DEA regulation, which could result in our being fined or otherwise penalized if we are in non-compliance. The DEA could limit or reduce the amount of controlled substances that we are permitted to manufacture and market or issue fines and penalties against us for non-compliance with DEA regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to the Federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act (\"DSCSA\") that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will become incrementally effective over a 10-year period. Failure to comply with regulations that require prescription drug manufacturers, including us, to label prescription products with a unique serial number at the saleable unit level could have a significant adverse impact on our business.. Changes in healthcare law and policy changes may adversely affect our business plans and results of operations.. The sales of our products depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations including Pharmacy Benefit Managers (\"PBMs\") and other healthcare-related organizations. We expect both federal and state governments in the U.S. and foreign governments to continue to propose and pass new legislation, rules and regulations designed to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare. Existing regulations that affect the price of pharmaceutical and other medical products may also change before any of our products are approved for marketing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any product we develop in the future. In addition, PBMs and other third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products. Our products may not be considered cost effective, or adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize a return on our investments. Any such changes in healthcare law or policy may harm our ability to market our products and generate profits.. The FDA may require us to stop marketing certain unapproved drugs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We market several generic prescription products that do not have formal FDA approvals. These products are non-application drugs that are manufactured and marketed without FDA approved filings on the basis of their having been marketed by the pharmaceutical industry prior to the 1962 Amendments of the FDC Act.  The FDA has increased its efforts to require companies to file and seek FDA approval for unapproved products, and when a product is approved, the FDA has typically increased its effort to remove other unapproved products from the market by issuing notices to companies currently manufacturing these products to cease its distribution of said products. In 2013, we discontinued marketing of a previously. 20. unapproved product after receipt of a Warning Letter in October 2012. During 2017, we marketed six such unapproved products, generating net revenue of approximately $132.4 million. Of the six products marketed during 2017, none were approved through either an ANDA or an NDA except Ephedrine Sulfate Injection which received NDA approval in March 2017. If the FDA issues Warning Letters or notices with respect to one or more of our unapproved products, we may be forced to discontinue manufacture and marketing of the affected products, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. Any failure to comply with the complex reporting and payment obligations under Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs may result in litigation or sanctions.. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, false claims, marketing and pricing laws. We are also subject to Medicaid and other government reporting and payment obligations that are highly complex and at times ambiguous. Violations of these laws and reporting obligations are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. If our past, present or future operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and negatively impact our financial results. Further, if there is a change in laws, regulations or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. The Company and its employees are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits covered entities and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other benefits. In addition, the FCPA imposes recordkeeping standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of \"off books\" slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. If our employees, third-party sales representatives or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other remedial measures, including further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, as well as potential personnel changes and disciplinary actions.. The FDA may authorize sales of some prescription pharmaceuticals on a non-prescription basis, which may reduce the profitability of our prescription products.. The FDA may change the designation of some prescription pharmaceuticals we currently sell to non-prescription. If we are unable to gain approval of our product on a non-prescription designation we may experience an adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property.. Third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent or delay us from manufacturing and selling some of our new products.. The manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. Pharmaceutical companies with patented brand products frequently sue companies that file applications to produce generic equivalents of their patented brand products for alleged patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights, which may delay or prevent the entry of such generic products into the market. Generally, a generic drug may not be marketed until the applicable patent(s) on the brand name drug expire or are held to be not infringed, invalid, or unenforceable. When we or our development partners submit a filing to the FDA for approval of a generic drug, we or our development partners must certify:  (i) that there is no patent listed by the FDA as covering the relevant brand product, (ii) that any patent listed as covering the brand product has expired, (iii) that the patent listed as covering the brand product will expire prior to the marketing of the generic product, in which case the filing will not be finally approved by the FDA until the expiration of such patent, or (iv) that any patent listed as covering the brand drug is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, sale or use of the generic product for which the filing is submitted.. 21. Under any circumstance in which an act of infringement is alleged to occur, there is a risk that a brand pharmaceutical company may sue us for alleged patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Also, competing pharmaceutical companies may file lawsuits against us or our strategic partners alleging patent infringement or may file declaratory judgment actions of non-infringement, invalidity, or unenforceability against us relating to our own patents. We have been sued for patent infringement related to several of our filings and we anticipate that we may be sued once we file for other products in our pipeline. Such litigation is often costly and time-consuming and could result in a substantial delay in, or prevent the introduction and/or marketing of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Even if the parties settle their intellectual property disputes through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties, and the necessary licenses might not be available to us on terms we believe to be acceptable.. Our patents and proprietary rights may be challenged, circumvented or otherwise compromised by competitors, which may result in our protected products losing their market exclusivity and becoming subject to generic competition before their patents expire.. The patent and proprietary rights position of competitors in the pharmaceutical industry generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and is the subject of much litigation. There can be no assurance that any patent applications or other proprietary rights, including licensed rights, relating to our potential products or processes will result in patents being issued or other proprietary rights secured, or that the resulting patents or proprietary rights, if any, will provide protection against competitors who: (i) successfully challenge our patents or proprietary rights; (ii) obtain patents or proprietary rights that may have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business; or (iii) are able to circumvent our patent or proprietary rights position. It is possible that other parties have conducted or are conducting research and could make discoveries of pharmaceutical formulations or processes that would precede any discoveries made by us, which could prevent us from obtaining patent or other protection for these discoveries or marketing products developed therefrom. Consequently, others could independently develop pharmaceutical products similar to or rendering obsolete those that we are planning to develop, or duplicate any of our products. Our inability to obtain patents for, or other proprietary rights in, our products and processes or the ability of competitors to circumvent or cause to be obsolete our patents or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Additionally, our inability to successfully defend the existing patents on our products against Paragraph IV challenges by competing drug companies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the patents that protect Azasite® were challenged by two generic competitors. We settled with one competitor and the courts found in our favor with the other.  Zioptan\231 currently faces challenges from generic competitors.. Further, the majority of the drug products that we market are generics, with essentially no patent or proprietary rights attached. While this fact allowed us the opportunity to obtain FDA approval to market our generic products, it also allows competing drug companies to do the same. Should multiple additional drug companies choose to develop and market the same generic products that we actively market, our profit margins could decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Financing.. We may need to obtain additional capital to continue to grow our business.. We may require additional funds in order to materially grow our business. We require substantial liquidity to implement long-term cost savings and productivity improvement plans, continue capital spending to improve our manufacturing facilities to increase capacity and support product development programs, meet scheduled term debt and lease maturities, to effect acquisitions and to run our normal business operations. We may seek additional funds through public and private financing, including equity and debt offerings. However, adequate funds through the financial markets or from other sources may not be available to us when needed or on favorable terms. Without sufficient additional capital funding, we may be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our product development, manufacturing, acquisition, licensing and marketing initiatives, or operations. Further, such additional financing, if obtained, may require the granting of rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the common stock and result in substantial dilution of the existing ownership interests of the common stockholders and could include covenants and restrictions that limit our ability to operate or expand our business in a manner that we deem to be in our best interest.. Our indebtedness reduces our financial and operating flexibility.. 22. We have entered into various credit arrangements to fund certain of our operations and activities, principally business combinations. During the year ended December 31, 2014 we significantly increased our debt obligations through new term loans. As of December 31, 2017, our debt includes Term Loans with a remaining principal balance of $831.9 million. We also have available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities (See Part II, Item 8, Note 7 - \"Financing Arrangements\" for definitions and descriptions of our Term Loans and our credit facilities). A high level of indebtedness subjects us to a number of risks. In particular, a significant portion of our current indebtedness has variable interest terms meaning we are subject to the risks associated with higher interest rates, and moreover, a high level of indebtedness may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. In addition, our current debt arrangements require that we devote a significant portion of our cash flows to service amounts outstanding under those debt arrangements. We also are subject to various covenants with respect to our indebtedness, including the obligation to meet certain defined financial ratios and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders is restricted. Further, our indebtedness may restrict or otherwise impair our ability to raise additional capital through other debt financing, which could restrict our ability to grow our business. Our ability to meet our debt obligations, to comply with all required covenants, and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. If we do not have sufficient funds on hand to pay our debt when due, we may be required to seek a waiver or amendment from our lenders, refinance our indebtedness, incur additional indebtedness, sell assets or sell additional shares of securities. We may not be able to complete such transactions on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to undertake any of these actions successfully could result in a default on our debt obligations, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not generate cash flow sufficient to pay interest and make required principal repayments on our Term Loans.. On April 17, 2014, upon completing the Hi-Tech Acquisition, we entered into a $600.0 million term loan with certain other lenders with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. acting as the administrative agent (the \"Existing Term Loan\") and on August 12, 2014, upon completing the VersaPharm Acquisition, we entered into a $445.0 million term loan with certain other lenders with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. acting as the administrative agent (the \"Incremental Term Loan\"). The Existing Term loan and Incremental Term Loan are collectively the \"Term Loans.\" The Term Loans significantly increased our debt obligations. The Term Loans bear interest at a variable rate at a margin above prime or LIBOR, at our election. The outstanding balance of the Term Loans, which was $831.9 million as of December 31, 2017, is due and payable on April 17, 2021. If we do not generate sufficient operating cash flows to fund these payments or obtain additional funding from external sources at acceptable terms, we may not have sufficient funds to satisfy our principal and interest payment obligations when those obligations are due, which would place us into default under the terms of the Existing Term Loan and the Incremental Term Loan. Such default would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our borrowings are secured by all or substantially all of the Company's assets. If the Company defaults on its obligations under the Existing Term Loan or the Incremental Term Loans, the lenders may be able to foreclose upon its security interest and otherwise be entitled to obtain or control Company assets.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock.. Exercise of options and granting of restricted stock units, may have a substantial dilutive effect on our common stock.. If the price per share of our common stock at the time of exercise of any stock options is in excess of the various exercise prices of such options, exercise of such options would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of December 31, 2017, holders of our outstanding options would receive 4.1 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $28.95 per share, and holders of unvested restricted stock units would receive 0.9 million shares of our common stock should all their restricted stock units vest.. Our announced stock repurchase program could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock.. In July 2016, the Board authorized a stock repurchase program (the \"Stock Repurchase Program\") that would allow the Company to effect repurchases from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, including accelerated stock repurchase arrangements. During 2016, the Company repurchased a total of approximately 1.8 million shares at an average price of $24.89 per share of common stock.  The timing and actual number of shares repurchased under the Stock Repurchase Program has depended on a variety of factors, including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the Company is generally not permitted to repurchase shares, however, any repurchases pursuant to such program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility.  The existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher. 23. than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. There can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will occur or that if they do, that they will enhance stockholder value as the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. In addition, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness.. We may issue preferred stock and the terms of such preferred stock may reduce the market value of our common stock.. We are authorized to issue up to a total of 5 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series subject to certain limitations, without further action by holders of our common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, we are generally not permitted to issue such preferred stock, however, if we did issue shares of preferred stock, it could affect the rights or reduce the market value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. These terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions.. 24"
