[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to the Company's securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, the Company's business, financial condition or results from operations could be materially and adversely affected and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks related to our business. Deterioration of industry conditions could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business depends to a large extent upon the prospects for the mowing, right-of-way maintenance and agricultural markets in general. Future prospects of the industry depend largely on factors outside of our control. Any of those factors could adversely impact demand for our products, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. These factors include the following:. • weakness in the worldwide economy;. • the price and availability of raw materials, purchased components and energy;. • budget constraints and revenue shortfalls for our governmental customers;. • changes in domestic and foreign governmental policies and laws, including increased levels of governmental regulation and associated liabilities;. • the levels of interest rates;. • the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in countries where we sell our products but don't have a manufacturing presence;. • impact of tighter credit markets on the Company, its dealers and end-users;. • impairment in the carrying value of goodwill; and. • increase in unfunded pension plan liability due to financial market deterioration.. In addition, our business is susceptible to a number of factors that specifically affect agricultural customer spending patterns, including the following:. • animal disease outbreaks, epidemics and crop pests;. • weather conditions, such as droughts, floods and snowstorms;. • changes in farm incomes;. • cattle and agricultural commodity prices;. • changes in governmental agricultural policies worldwide;. • the level of worldwide farm output and demand for farm products; and. • limits on agricultural imports/exports.. A downturn in general economic conditions and outlook in the United States and around the world could adversely affect our net sales and earnings.. The strength and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for our products and upon economic conditions and outlook, including but not limited to economic growth rates; consumer spending levels; financing availability, pricing and terms for our dealers and end-users; employment rates; interest rates; inflation; consumer confidence and general economic and political conditions and expectations in the United States and the other economies in which we conduct business. Slow or negative growth rates, inflationary/deflationary pressures, higher commodity costs and energy prices, reduced credit availability or unfavorable credit terms for our dealers. 14. and end-user customers, increased unemployment rates, and recessionary economic conditions and outlook could cause consumers to reduce spending, which may cause them to delay or forgo purchases of our products and could have an adverse effect on our net sales and earnings.. The pending exit by the U.K. from the European Union (\"Brexit\") and the impact of the withdrawal may adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic conditions in the U.K., the European Union and elsewhere. The economic conditions and outlook could be further adversely affected by the uncertainty concerning the timing and terms of the exit and new or modified trading arrangements between the U.K. and other countries.  Any of these developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could negatively affect economic growth or business activity in the U.K., the European Union and elsewhere, and could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Changes in U.S. tax legislation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law legislation known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"TCJA\") that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We are currently evaluating provisions of TCJA, which among other things, lowers the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, moves the country towards a territorial tax system with a one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation, creates taxes such as the base erosion anti-abuse tax (\"BEAT\") and Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (\"GILTI\") tax, and allows for the expensing of certain capital expenditures. As we do not have all the necessary information to analyze all income tax effects of TCJA, we have recorded a provisional amount which we believe represents a reasonable estimate of the accounting implications of TCJA.  We will continue to evaluate and adjust the provisional amounts as additional information is obtained. We may not understand the full effect that this tax reform legislation will have on our business and it is possible that the impact of the legislation could adversely and materially impact our results of operations. We expect to complete our detailed analysis no later than the fourth quarter of 2018. For further information, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.. We depend on governmental sales and a decrease in such sales could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales to federal, state and local governmental entities and related contractors, both in the U.S. and in other countries in which we sell our products. These sales depend primarily on the levels of budgeted and appropriated expenditures for highway, airport, roadside and parks maintenance by various governmental entities and are affected by changes in local and national economic conditions.. Our dependence on, and the price and availability of, raw materials as well as purchased components may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to fluctuations in market prices for raw materials such as steel and energy. In addition, although most of the raw materials and purchased components we use are commercially available from a number of sources, we could experience disruptions in the availability of such materials. If we are unable to purchase materials we require or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers or otherwise reduce our cost of goods sold, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, higher energy costs could negatively affect spending by farmers, including their purchases of our products.. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth.. The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units using a discounted cash flow analysis. This analysis requires the Company to make significant assumptions and estimates about the extent and timing of future cash flows, discount rates and growth rates. The cash flows are estimated over a significant future period of time, which makes those estimates and assumptions subject to an even higher degree of uncertainty. The Company also utilizes market valuation models and other financial ratios, which require the Company to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding the applicability of those models to its assets and businesses. As of December 31, 2017, goodwill was $84,761,000, which represents 13% of total assets.. 15. The Company recognized no goodwill impairment in 2017, 2016 or 2015. During the third quarter of 2015, the Company changed its annual goodwill and intangible assets impairment testing date from December 31 to October 1.  During the 2017 impairment analysis review, we performed a sensitivity analysis for goodwill impairment with respect to each of our reporting units and determined that a hypothetical 15% decline in the fair value of each reporting unit as of October 1, 2017 would not result in an impairment of goodwill for any of the reporting units.  If we were to have a significant goodwill impairment caused by a greater than a 15% decline in fair value, it could impact our results of operations as well as our net worth.. We are significantly dependent on information technology.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. We also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers, and suppliers. These information technology systems (some of which are provided and maintained by third parties) may be susceptible to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to hardware failures, computer viruses, hacker attacks, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophic events or other factors. If our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience business disruptions, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of customers and sales, causing our product sales, financial condition, and operating results to be adversely affected and the reporting of our financial results to be delayed.. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information or other sensitive information of our customers and employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy.  Despite the information security measures we have taken, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.  Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory fines and penalties, disruption of our operations and the services we provide to customers, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Changes in the European regulatory environment regarding privacy and data protection regulations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. The EU has recently adopted a comprehensive overhaul of its data protection regime in the form of the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which comes into effect in May of 2018.  GDPR extends the scope of the existing EU data protection law to foreign companies processing personal data of EU residents.  The regulation imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with severe penalties of 4% of worldwide turnover or \20020 million, whichever is greater,  and includes new rights such as the right of erasure of personal data. Although the GDPR will apply across the EU, as has been the case under the current data protection regime, EU Member States have some national derogations and local data protection authorities (\"DPAs\") will still have the ability to interpret the GDPR, which has the potential to create inconsistencies on a country-by-country basis.  Implementation of, and compliance with the GDPR could increase our cost of doing business and/or force us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.  In addition, violations of the GDPR may result in significant fines, penalties and damage to our brand and business which could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business and reputation.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do.. Our products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. We compete with several large national and international companies that offer a broad range of equipment and replacement parts that compete with our products, as well as with numerous small, privately-held manufacturers and suppliers of a limited number of products mainly on a regional basis. Some of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater financial and other resources at their disposal. We believe that we are able to compete successfully in our markets by, to some extent, avoiding direct competition with significantly larger potential. 16. competitors. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not substantially increase the resources devoted to the development and marketing of products competitive with our products or that new competitors with greater resources will not enter our markets. Any failure to effectively compete could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to develop new products or keep pace with technological developments may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our industry is affected by future technological developments. The introduction of new products or processes with innovative technologies could render our existing products or processes obsolete or unmarketable. Our success depends, to some extent, upon our ability to develop, market and sell cost-effective new products and applications that keep pace with technological developments in the markets we serve. We may not be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products and applications or we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of such new products and applications, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. We operate and source internationally, which exposes us to the political, economic and other risks of doing business abroad.. We have operations in a number of countries outside of the United States and we source raw materials and components globally. Our international operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including but not limited to the following:. • limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings;. • import and export restrictions, tariffs and quotas;. • additional expenses relating to the difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations;. • labor disputes and uncertain political and economic environments and the impact of foreign business cycles;. • changes in laws or policies;. • changes in any international trade agreements, such as any changes in European Union membership;. • delays in obtaining or the inability to obtain necessary governmental permits;. • potentially adverse consequences resulting from the applicability of foreign tax laws;. • cultural differences;. • increased expenses due to inflation;. • weak economic conditions in foreign markets where our subsidiaries distribute their products;. • changes in currency exchange rates;. • disruptions in transportation and port authorities; and. • regulations involving international freight shipments.. Operating in the international marketplace exposes us to a number of risks, including the need to comply with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our foreign operations, including anti-corruption laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, United States export control laws, and data privacy laws such as the recently enacted European GDPR. The costs of compliance with these various laws, regulations and policies can be significant and penalties for noncompliance could significantly and adversely impact our business.  Our international operations may also be adversely affected by laws and policies affecting foreign trade, investment, taxation, and our ability to effectively source components and raw materials internationally. For example, any significant changes in U.S. trade policy, including the introduction of any new or expanded tariffs, could increase the cost of critical materials and supplies that we source internationally or negatively impact international sales of our products, which would have an adverse effect on our net sales and earnings.. In addition, political developments and governmental regulations and policies in the countries in which we operate directly affect the demand for our products. For example, decreases or delays in farm subsidies to our agricultural customers, or changes in environmental policies aimed at limiting mowing activities, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 17. Our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We intend to grow internally and through the acquisition of businesses and assets that will complement our current businesses. To date, a material portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition targets, obtain financing for acquisitions on satisfactory terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Competition for acquisition opportunities may also increase our costs of making acquisitions or prevent us from making certain acquisitions. These and other acquisition-related factors may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be unable to complete or integrate existing or future acquisitions effectively, and businesses we have acquired, or may acquire in the future, may not perform as expected.. We may not be successful in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations and achieving projected synergies. We could face many risks in integrating acquired businesses, including but not limited to the following:. • we may incur substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial challenges in integrating acquired businesses, including integrating each company's accounting, information technology, human resource and other administrative systems to facilitate effective management;. • we may be unable to achieve expected cost reductions, to take advantage of cross-selling opportunities, or to eliminate redundant operations, facilities and systems;. • we may need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company which could take a significant amount of time and expense;. • acquisitions may divert our management's attention from the operation of our existing businesses;. • we may not be able to retain key personnel of acquired businesses;. • there may be cultural challenges associated with integrating management and employees from the acquired businesses into our organization; and. • we may encounter unanticipated events, circumstances and legal risk and associated liabilities.. Our integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts from the management of each entity, including coordinating existing business plans and research and development efforts. Integrating operations may distract management's attention from the day-to-day operation of the combined companies. Ultimately, our attempts to integrate the operations, technology and personnel of acquired businesses may not be successful. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, our future results may be negatively impacted.. In addition, we may be adversely affected if businesses that we have acquired, or that we acquire in the future, do not perform as expected. An acquired business could perform below our expectations for a number of reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the areas in which the acquired business specializes, the loss of customers and dealers, general economic factors that directly affect the acquired business, and the cultural incompatibility of its management team. Any or all of these reasons could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition.. The agricultural industry and the infrastructure maintenance industry are seasonal and are affected by the weather, and seasonal fluctuations may cause our results of operations and working capital to fluctuate from quarter to quarter.. In general, agricultural and governmental end-users typically purchase new equipment during the first and second calendar quarters. Other products such as street sweepers, excavators, snow removal equipment, front-end loaders and pothole patchers have different seasonal patterns, as do replacement parts in general. In attempting to achieve efficient utilization of manpower and facilities throughout the year, we estimate seasonal demand months in advance and manufacturing capacity is scheduled in anticipation of such demand. We utilize an annual plan with updated quarterly sales forecasts provided by our marketing divisions and order backlog in order to develop a production plan for our manufacturing facilities. In addition, many of our marketing departments attempt to equalize demand for their products throughout the calendar year by offering seasonal sales programs which may provide additional incentives, including discounts and extended payment terms, on equipment that is ordered during off-season periods. Because we spread our production and wholesale shipments throughout the year to take into account the factors described above, sales in any given period may not reflect the timing of dealer orders and retail demand.. 18. Weather conditions and general economic conditions may affect the timing of purchases and actual industry conditions might differ from our forecasts. Consequently, sudden or significant declines in industry demand could adversely affect our working capital or results of operations.. If we do not retain key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business may suffer.. Our continued success will depend on, among other things, the efforts and skills of our executive officers, including our president and chief executive officer, and our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified managerial, technical, manufacturing, and sales and marketing personnel. We do not maintain \"key man\" life insurance for any of our employees, and all of our senior management are employed at will. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and hire suitable replacements for any of our key employees. We believe the loss of a key executive officer or other key employee could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We may not be able to realize the potential or strategic benefits of the acquisitions we complete, or we may not be able to successfully address problems encountered in connection with acquisitions.. Acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy. We have completed a number of acquisitions over the past several years. We expect to consider opportunities and make additional acquisitions in the future, but we may not find suitable acquisition targets or be able to consummate desired acquisitions due to among other things, unfavorable credit markets or other risks, which could harm our operating results.  Acquisitions can be difficult, time-consuming, and pose a number of risks, including:. • potential negative impact on our earnings per share;. • failure of acquired products to achieve projected sales;. • problems in integrating the acquired products with our products;. • potential downward pressure on operating margins due to lower operating margins of acquired businesses,. • increased headcount costs and other expenses associated with adding and supporting new products;. • difficulties in retaining and integrating key employees;. • failure to realize expected synergies or cost savings;. • disruption of ongoing business operations, including diversion of management's attention and uncertainty for employees and customers, particularly during the post-acquisition integration process;. • potential negative impact on our relationships with customers, distributors and vendors; and. • the assumption of liabilities that are unknown to us at the time of closing.. If we do not manage these risks, the acquisitions that we complete may have an adverse effect on our business, our results of operations, or financial condition.. Increasingly stringent engine emission regulations could impact our ability to sell certain of our products into the market and appropriately price certain of our products, which could negatively affect our competitive position and financial results.. The products we manufacture or sell, particularly engines, are subject to increasingly stringent environmental emissions regulations. For instance, the EPA has adopted increasingly stringent engine emissions regulations, including Tier 4 emission requirements applicable to diesel engines in specified horsepower ranges that are used in some of our products.  As of January 1, 2012, such requirements expanded to additional horsepower categories and, accordingly, apply to more of the products we sell.  While we have developed and implemented plans to achieve full and timely compliance with these requirements, our ability to meet the Tier 4 requirements is subject to many variables, some of which are beyond our direct control.  If we fail to meet the Tier 4 requirements and any other EPA emission standards that are currently in place or that may be introduced in the future, our ability to sell our products into the market may be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and financial results.. 19. We are subject on an ongoing basis to the risk of product liability claims and other litigation arising in the ordinary course of business.. Like other manufacturers, we are subject to various claims, including product liability claims, arising in the ordinary course of business, and we are a party to various legal proceedings that constitute routine litigation incidental to our business. We may be exposed to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury, property damage, or both. We cannot assure you that we will not experience any material product liability losses in the future or that we will not incur significant costs to defend the Company against such claims. While we currently have product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that our product liability insurance coverage will be adequate for any liabilities that may ultimately be incurred or that it will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in a product recall may have a materially adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to environmental, health and safety and employment laws and regulations and related compliance expenditures and liabilities.. Like other manufacturers, the Company is subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign laws and requirements, including those concerning air emissions, discharges into waterways, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste materials, as well as the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances at the Company's facilities and offsite disposal locations, workplace safety and equal employment opportunities. These laws and regulations are constantly changing, and it is impossible to predict with accuracy the effect that changes to such laws and regulations may have on the Company in the future. Like other industrial concerns, the Company's manufacturing operations entail the risk of noncompliance, and there can be no assurance that the Company will not incur material costs or other liabilities as a result thereof.. Certain properties of the Company contain asbestos that may have to be remediated over time and it could be additional expense to the Company.. The Company is subject to various other federal, state, and local laws affecting its business, as well as a variety of regulations relating to such matters as working conditions, equal employment opportunities, and product safety. A variety of state laws regulate the Company's contractual relationships with its dealers, some of which impose restrictive standards on the relationship between the Company and its dealers, including events of default, grounds for termination, non-renewal of dealer contracts, and equipment repurchase requirements.. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our credit arrangements, especially the financial covenants, our credit arrangements could be terminated.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of the terms of our credit arrangements, especially the financial covenants. Our ability to comply with such terms depends on the success of our business and our operating results. Various risks, uncertainties, and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with the terms of our credit arrangements. If we were out of compliance with any covenant required by our credit arrangements following any applicable cure periods, the banks could terminate their commitments unless we could negotiate a covenant waiver. The banks could condition such waiver on amendments to the terms of our credit arrangements that may be unfavorable to us, including a potential increase to the interest rate we currently pay on outstanding debt under our credit arrangements could increase, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results.. Our earnings are affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, predominantly in European countries, Canada and Australia, as a result of the sale of our products in international markets. While we do enter into foreign exchange contracts to protect against such fluctuations to an extent (primarily in the U.K. market), we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage these risks. Significant long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, such as a devaluation of the Euro against the U.S. dollar, could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations or financial condition.. 20. Risks related to investing in our common stock. Because the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, it may be difficult for you to resell our common stock when desired or at attractive prices.. The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate. The closing prices of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange during 2017 ranged from $119.29 to $72.22 per share, and during 2016 from $77.60 to $49.33 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to the risk factors set forth herein and to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating and financial results, litigation, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, news reports relating to us or trends in our industry or general economic conditions. The stock price volatility and trading volume may make it difficult for you to resell your shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices.. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock.. We may issue shares of our previously authorized and unissued securities which will result in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue 20,000,000 shares of common stock. On December 31, 2017, 11,640,100 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding, and there were outstanding options and restricted stock awards totaling an additional 302,927 shares of our common stock. We also have additional shares available for grant under our 2015 Incentive Stock Option Plan and our 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. Additional stock option or other compensation plans or amendments to existing plans for employees and directors may be adopted. Issuance of these shares of common stock may dilute the ownership interests of our then existing stockholders. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, such as the 1,700,000 shares issued as consideration for the acquisition of Bush Hog in 2009, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. This would further dilute the interests of our existing stockholders.. There is no assurance that we will continue declaring dividends or have the available cash to make dividend payments.. On January 2, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company increased its quarterly dividend from $.10 per share to $.11 per share. Although we have paid a cash dividend in each quarter since becoming a public company in 1993, there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or that funds will continue to be available for this purpose in the future. The declaration and payment of dividends are restricted by the terms of our amended and restated revolving credit agreement, are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, are not cumulative, and will depend upon our profitability, financial condition, capital needs, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors.. Provisions of our corporate documents may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control.. Provisions of our charter, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include prohibiting stockholders from calling stockholder meetings and prohibiting shareholder actions by written consent. Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws state that any amendment to certain provisions, including those provisions regarding limitations on action by written consent discussed above, be approved by the holders of at least two-thirds of our common stock. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who becomes a 15% or greater shareholder for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such status unless certain board or shareholder approvals were obtained.. 21. Future sales, or the possibility of future sales, of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of the shares of our common stock.. Future sales, or the availability for sale in the public market, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. If we or our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if there is a perception that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline.. Certain stockholders own a significant amount of our common stock, and their interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, three investors - BlackRock, Inc., Henry Crown and Company, and Dimensional Fund Advisors LP - beneficially owned approximately 38% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, the major stockholders combined could be able to significantly influence the direction of the Company, the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of any other matter requiring stockholder approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and together with other beneficially owned investors, to prevent or cause a change in control of the Company. Also, pursuant to contractual obligations, affiliates of Henry Crown and Company, were entitled to certain rights with respect to the registration of the common stock owned by them under the Securities Act. Pursuant to such registration rights, on March 12, 2012, we filed a registration statement related to the common stock owned by such entities and such registration statement was declared effective by the SEC. The interests of the major stockholders may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders."
