[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. You should consider carefully the following risks when reading the information, including the financial information, contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our substantial international operations subject us to risks of doing business in foreign countries, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside the U.S., with approximately 73% of our sales to foreign countries. In addition, we operate and/or sell our products to customers in approximately 100 countries. We currently have many production facilities, research and development and administrative facilities, as well as sales offices located outside the United States, as detailed in Item 2. Properties. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent in international operations include the following:. 9. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services we provide in international markets where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency;. • transportation and other shipping costs may increase, or transportation may be inhibited;. • increased cost or decreased availability of raw materials;. • changes in foreign laws and tax rates or U.S. laws and tax rates with respect to foreign income may unexpectedly increase the rate at which our income is taxed, impose new and additional taxes on remittances, repatriation or other payments by subsidiaries, or cause the loss of previously recorded tax benefits;. • foreign countries in which we do business may adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls;. • trade sanctions by or against these countries could result in our losing access to customers and suppliers in those countries;. • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur;. • our agreements with counterparties in foreign countries may be difficult for us to enforce and related receivables may be difficult for us to collect;. • compliance with the variety of foreign laws and regulations may be unduly burdensome;. • compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) as well as anti-money-laundering laws may be costly;. • unexpected adverse changes in export duties, quotas and tariffs and difficulties in obtaining export licenses may occur;. • general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries;. • our foreign operations may experience staffing difficulties and labor disputes;. • termination or substantial modification of international trade agreements may adversely affect our access to raw materials and to markets for our products outside the U.S.;. • foreign governments may nationalize or expropriate private enterprises;. • increased sovereign risk (such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit worthiness of local governments) may occur; and. • political or economic repercussions from terrorist activities, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions and political instability, may occur in certain countries in which we do business.. In addition, certain of our joint ventures operate, and we have ongoing capital projects, in regions of the world such as the Middle East and South America, that are of high risk due to significant civil, political and security instability. Unanticipated events, such as geopolitical changes, could result in a write-down of our investment in the affected joint venture or a delay or cause cancellation of those capital projects, which could negatively impact our future growth and profitability. Our success as a global business will depend, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions by developing, implementing and maintaining policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we and our joint ventures do business.. Furthermore, we are subject to rules and regulations related to anti-bribery prohibitions of the U.S. and other countries and export controls and economic embargoes, violations of which may carry substantial penalties. For example, export control and economic embargo regulations limit the ability of our subsidiaries to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer their products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. Failure to comply with these regulations could subject our subsidiaries to fines, enforcement actions and/or have an adverse effect on our reputation and the value of our common stock.. Our inability to secure key raw materials, or to pass through increases in costs and expenses for other raw materials and energy, on a timely basis or at all, could have an adverse effect on the margins of our products and our results of operations.. The long-term profitability of our operations will, in part, depend on our ability to continue to economically obtain resources, including energy and raw materials. For example, our lithium and bromine businesses rely upon our continued ability to produce, or otherwise obtain, lithium and bromine of sufficient quality and in adequate amounts to meet our customers' demand. If we fail to secure and retain the rights to continue to access these key raw materials, we may have to restrict or suspend our operations that rely upon these key resources, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in some cases access to these raw materials by us and our competitors is subject to decisions or actions by governmental authorities, which could adversely impact us. Furthermore, other raw material and energy costs account for a significant percentage of our total costs of products sold, even if they can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Our. 10. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. raw material and energy costs can be volatile and may increase significantly. Increases are primarily driven by tightening of market conditions and major increases in the pricing of key constituent materials for our products such as crude oil, chlorine and metals (including molybdenum and rare earths which are used in the refinery catalysts business). We generally attempt to pass through changes in the prices of raw materials and energy to our customers, but we may be unable to do so (or may be delayed in doing so). In addition, raising prices we charge to our customers in order to offset increases in the prices we pay for raw materials could cause us to suffer a loss of sales volumes. Our inability to efficiently and effectively pass through price increases, or inventory impacts resulting from price volatility, could adversely affect our margins.. Competition within our industry may place downward pressure on the prices and margins of our products and may adversely affect our businesses and results of operations.. We compete against a number of highly competitive global specialty chemical producers. Competition is based on several key criteria, including product performance and quality, product price, product availability and security of supply, and responsiveness of product development in cooperation with customers and customer service. Some of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater financial resources. These competitors may also be able to maintain significantly greater operating and financial flexibility. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within our industry. Competitors' pricing decisions could compel us to decrease our prices, which could negatively affect our margins and profitability. Our ability to maintain or increase our profitability is, and will continue to be, dependent upon our ability to offset decreases in the prices and margins of our products by improving production efficiency and volume and other productivity enhancements, shifting to production of higher margin chemical products and improving existing products through innovation and research and development. If we are unable to do so or to otherwise maintain our competitive position, we could lose market share to our competitors.. In addition, Albemarle's brands, product image and trademarks represent the unique product identity of each of our products and are important symbols of the Company's reputation. Accordingly, the performance of our business could be adversely affected by any marketing and promotional materials used by our competitors that make adverse claims, whether with or without merit, against our Company or its products, imply or assert immoral or improper conduct by us, or are otherwise disparaging of our Company or its products. Further, our own actions could hurt such brands, product image and trademarks if our products underperform or we otherwise draw negative publicity.. Our research and development efforts may not succeed in addressing changes in our customers' needs, and our competitors may develop more effective or successful products.. Our industries and the end markets into which we sell our products experience technological change and product improvement. Manufacturers periodically introduce new products or require new technological capacity to develop customized products. Our future growth depends on our ability to gauge the direction of the commercial and technological progress in all key end markets in which we sell our products and upon our ability to fund and successfully develop, manufacture and market products in such changing end markets. As a result, we must commit substantial resources each year to research and development. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to identify, develop, market and, in certain cases, secure regulatory approval for, innovative products in a timely manner or at all, as may be required to replace or enhance existing products, and any such inability could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins and our competitive position.. In addition, our customers use our specialty chemicals for a broad range of applications. Changes in our customers' products or processes may enable our customers to reduce consumption of the specialty chemicals that we produce or make our specialty chemicals unnecessary. Customers may also find alternative materials or processes that do not require our products. Should a customer decide to use a different material due to price, performance or other considerations, we may not be able to supply a product that meets the customer's new requirements. Consequently, it is important that we develop new products to replace the sales of products that mature and decline in use. Our business, results of operations, cash flows and margins could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to manage successfully the maturation of our existing products and the introduction of new products.. Despite our efforts, we may not be successful in developing new products and/or technology, either alone or with third parties, or licensing intellectual property rights from third parties on a commercially competitive basis. Our new products may not be accepted by our customers or may fail to receive regulatory approval. Moreover, new products may have lower margins than the products they replace. Furthermore, ongoing investments in research and development for the future do not yield an immediate beneficial impact on our operating results and therefore could result in higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues.. 11. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. Adverse conditions in the economy and volatility and disruption of financial markets can negatively impact our customers, suppliers and other business partners and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. A global, regional or localized economic downturn may reduce customer demand or inhibit our ability to produce our products, negatively impacting our operating results. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be sensitive to the many challenges that can affect national, regional and global economies, including economic downturns (including credit market tightness, which can impact our liquidity as well as that of our customers, suppliers and other business partners), declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices and volatile exchange rates. Our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages and difficulty obtaining financing, leading them to delay or cancel plans to purchase products, and they may not be able to fulfill their obligations in a timely fashion. Further, suppliers and other business partners may experience similar conditions, which could impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. Also, it could be difficult to find replacements for business partners without incurring significant delays or cost increases.. Downturns in our customers' industries could adversely affect our sales and profitability.. Downturns in the businesses that use our specialty chemicals may adversely affect our sales. Many of our customers are in industries, including the electronics, building and construction, oilfield and automotive industries, which are cyclical in nature, or which are subject to secular market downturns. Historically, cyclical or secular industry downturns have resulted in diminished demand for our products, excess manufacturing capacity and lower average selling prices, and we may experience similar problems in the future. A decline in our customers' industries may have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability.. Our results are subject to fluctuation because of irregularities in the demand for our HPC catalysts and certain of our agrichemicals.. Our HPC catalysts are used by petroleum refiners in their processing units to reduce the quantity of sulfur and other impurities in petroleum products. The effectiveness of HPC catalysts diminishes with use, requiring the HPC catalysts to be replaced, on average, once every one to four years. The sales of our HPC catalysts, therefore, are largely dependent on the useful life cycle of the HPC catalysts in the processing units and may vary materially by quarter. In addition, the timing and profitability of HPC catalysts sales can have a significant impact on revenue and profit in any one quarter. Sales of our agrichemicals are also subject to fluctuation as demand varies depending on climate and other environmental conditions, which may prevent or reduce farming for extended periods. In addition, crop pricing and the timing of when farms alternate from one crop to another crop in a particular year can also alter sales of agrichemicals.. Regulation, or the threat of regulation, of some of our products could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability.. We manufacture or market a number of products that are or have been the subject of attention by regulatory authorities and environmental interest groups. For example, over the past decade, there has been increasing scrutiny of certain brominated flame retardants by regulatory authorities, legislative bodies and environmental interest groups in various countries. We manufacture a broad range of brominated flame retardant products, which are used in a variety of applications to protect people, property and the environment from injury and damage caused by fire. Concern about the impact of some of our products on human health or the environment may lead to regulation, or reaction in our markets independent of regulation, that could reduce or eliminate markets for such products.. Agencies in the European Union continue to evaluate the risks to human health and the environment associated with certain brominated flame retardants such as tetrabromobisphenol A and decabromodiphenylethane, both of which we manufacture. Additional government regulations, including limitations or bans on the use of brominated flame retardants, could result in a decline in our net sales of brominated flame retardants and have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. In addition, the threat of additional regulation or concern about the impact of brominated flame retardants on human health or the environment could lead to a negative reaction in our markets that could reduce or eliminate our markets for these products, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability.. Our business and our customers are subject to significant requirements under REACH, which imposes obligations on European Union manufacturers and importers of chemicals and other products into the European Union to compile and file comprehensive reports, including testing data, on each chemical substance, and perform chemical safety assessments. Additionally, substances of high concern, as defined under REACH, are subject to an authorization process, which may result in restrictions in the use of products by application or even banning the product. REACH regulations impose significant additional burdens on chemical producers, importers, downstream users of chemical substances and preparations, and the entire supply chain. See \"Regulation\" in Item 1. Business. Our significant manufacturing presence and sales activities in the European Union. 12. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. requires significant compliance costs and may result in increases in the costs of raw materials we purchase and the products we sell. Increases in the costs of our products could result in a decrease in their overall demand; additionally, customers may seek products that are not regulated by REACH, which could also result in a decrease in the demand of certain products subject to the REACH regulations.. In June 2016, modifications to the TSCA in the U.S. were signed into law, requiring chemicals to be assessed against a risk-based safety standard and for the elimination of unreasonable risks identified during risk evaluation. Other pending initiatives potentially will require toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. These initiatives include the Voluntary Children's Chemical Evaluation Program, and High Production Volume Chemical Initiative in the U.S., as well as new initiatives in Asia and other regions. These assessments may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of the subject chemicals. Such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. Such a decrease in demand would likely have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. We could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of our products to meet certain quality specifications.. Our products provide important performance attributes to our customers' products. If a product fails to perform in a manner consistent with quality specifications or has a shorter useful life than guaranteed, a customer of ours could seek the replacement of the product or damages for costs incurred as a result of the product failing to perform as guaranteed. These risks apply to our refinery catalysts in particular because, in certain instances, we sell our refinery catalysts under agreements that contain limited performance and life cycle guarantees. Also, because many of our products are integrated into our customers' products, we may be requested to participate in, or fund in whole or in part the costs of, a product recall conducted by a customer. For example, some of our businesses supply products to customers in the automotive industry. In the event one of these customers conducts a product recall that it believes is related to one of our products, we may be asked to participate in, or fund in whole or in part, such a recall.. Our customers often require our subsidiaries to represent that our products conform to certain product specifications provided by our customers. Any failure to comply with such specifications could result in claims or legal action against us.. A successful claim or series of claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could result in our loss of one or more customers.. Our business is subject to hazards common to chemical and resource extraction businesses, any of which could injure our employees or other persons, damage our facilities or other properties, interrupt our production and adversely affect our reputation and results of operations.. Our business is subject to hazards common to chemical manufacturing, storage, handling and transportation, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, remediation, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life to our employees and other persons, severe damage to, or destruction of, property and equipment and environmental contamination. In addition, the occurrence of disruptions or material operating problems at our facilities due to any of these hazards may diminish our ability to meet our output goals. Accordingly, these hazards and their consequences could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our operations as a whole, including our results of operations and cash flows, both during and after the period of operational difficulties.. Our business could be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.. The nature of our business, including historical operations at our current and former facilities, exposes us to risks of liability under environmental laws and regulations due to the production, storage, use, transportation and sale of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury if released into the environment. In the jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated properties. We currently use, and in the past have used, hazardous substances at many of our facilities, and we have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to claims relating to exposure to hazardous materials. We also have generated, and continue to generate, hazardous wastes at a number of our facilities. Some of our facilities also have lengthy histories of manufacturing or other activities that may have resulted in site contamination. Liabilities associated with the investigation and cleanup of hazardous substances, as well as personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages arising from the release of, or exposure to, such hazardous substances, may be imposed in many situations without. 13. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. regard to violations of laws or regulations or other fault, and may also be imposed jointly and severally (so that a responsible party may be held liable for more than its share of the losses involved, or even the entire loss). Such liabilities may also be imposed on many different entities, including, for example, current and prior property owners or operators, as well as entities that arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances. Such liabilities may be material and can be difficult to identify or quantify.. Further, some of the raw materials we handle are subject to government regulation. These regulations affect the manufacturing processes, handling, uses and applications of our products. In addition, our production facilities and a number of our distribution centers require numerous operating permits. Due to the nature of these requirements and changes in our operations, our operations may exceed limits under permits or we may not have the proper permits to conduct our operations. Ongoing compliance with such laws, regulations and permits is an important consideration for us and we incur substantial capital and operating costs in our compliance efforts.. Compliance with environmental laws generally increases the costs of manufacturing, registration/approval requirements, transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, and storage and disposal of wastes, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions and remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations, for violations arising under these laws or permit requirements. Additional information may arise in the future concerning the nature or extent of our liability with respect to identified sites, and additional sites may be identified for which we are alleged to be liable, that could cause us to materially increase our environmental accrual or the upper range of the costs we believe we could reasonably incur for such matters. Furthermore, environmental laws are subject to change and have become increasingly stringent in recent years. We expect this trend to continue and to require materially increased capital expenditures and operating and compliance costs.. We may be subject to indemnity claims and liable for other payments relating to properties or businesses we have divested.. In connection with the sale of certain properties and businesses, we have agreed to indemnify the purchasers of such properties for certain types of matters, such as certain breaches of representations and warranties, taxes and certain environmental matters. With respect to environmental matters, the discovery of contamination arising from properties that we have divested may expose us to indemnity obligations under the sale agreements with the buyers of such properties or cleanup obligations and other damages under applicable environmental laws. We may not have insurance coverage for such indemnity obligations or cash flows to make such indemnity or other payments. Further, we cannot predict the nature of and the amount of any indemnity or other obligations we may have to the applicable purchaser. Such payments may be costly and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. At several of our properties where hazardous substances are known to exist (including some sites where hazardous substances are being investigated or remediated), we believe we are entitled to contractual indemnification from one or more former owners or operators; however, in the event we make a claim, the indemnifier may disagree with us regarding, or not have the financial capacity to fulfill, its indemnity obligation. If our contractual indemnity is not upheld or effective, our accrual and/or our costs for the investigation and cleanup of hazardous substances could increase materially.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and similar foreign anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions around the world generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an unfair advantage. We operate in some parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Although we have established formal policies or procedures for prohibiting or monitoring this conduct, we cannot assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees, agents or distributors have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. If we are found to be liable for violations of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, including employees of our joint ventures), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Following receipt of information regarding potential improper payments being made by third party sales representatives of our Refining Solutions business, we promptly retained outside counsel and forensic accountants to investigate potential violations of the Company's Code of Conduct, the FCPA, and other potentially applicable laws. Based on this internal. 14. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. investigation, we have voluntarily self-reported potential issues relating to the use of third party sales representatives in our Refining Solutions business to the U.S. Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") and SEC, and intend to cooperate with the DOJ and SEC in their review of these matters. In connection with our internal investigation, we have implemented, and are continuing to implement, appropriate remedial measures.. At this time, we are unable to predict the duration, scope, result or related costs associated with any investigations by the DOJ or SEC. We also are unable to predict what, if any, action may be taken by the DOJ or SEC or what penalties or remedial actions they may seek. Any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with existing laws or regulations, however, could result in the imposition of fines, penalties, disgorgement, equitable relief, or other losses.. We are subject to extensive foreign government regulation that can negatively impact our business.. We are subject to government regulation in non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we conduct our business.  The requirements for compliance with these laws and regulations may be unclear or indeterminate and may involve significant costs, including additional capital expenditures or increased operating expenses, or require changes in business practice, in each case that could result in reduced profitability for our business. Our having to comply with these foreign laws or regulations can require may provide a competitive advantage to competitors who are not subject to comparable restrictions or prevent us from taking advantage of growth opportunities. Determination of noncompliance can result in penalties or sanctions that could also adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and compounds and other technology is important to our business. We generally rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws of the United States and certain other countries in which our products are produced or sold, as well as licenses and nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. The patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws of some countries, or their enforcement, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable proprietary technologies. Additionally, some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application and, even if a patent application has been filed, it may not result in an issued patent. If patents are issued to us, those patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable.. We also conduct research and development activities with third parties and license certain intellectual property rights from third parties and we plan to continue to do so in the future. We endeavor to license or otherwise obtain intellectual property rights on terms favorable to us. However, we may not be able to license or otherwise obtain intellectual property rights on such terms or at all. Our inability to license or otherwise obtain such intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our ability to create a competitive advantage and create innovative solutions for our customers, which will adversely affect our net sales and our relationships with our customers.. We could face patent infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. If we are found to be infringing on the proprietary technology of others, we may be liable for damages and we may be required to change our processes, redesign our products partially or completely, pay to use the technology of others, stop using certain technologies or stop producing the infringing product entirely. Even if we ultimately prevail in an infringement suit, the existence of the suit could prompt customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits. We may not prevail in intellectual property litigation and such litigation may result in significant legal costs or otherwise impede our ability to produce and distribute key products.. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that they will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise or that adequate remedies will be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or manufacturing expertise. In addition, our trade secrets and know-how may be improperly obtained by other means, such as a breach of our information technologies security systems or direct theft.. 15. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of cybersecurity breaches, information technology system failures, or network disruptions.. Attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems become more sophisticated over time. These attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any cybersecurity breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. The devotion of additional resources to the security of our information technology systems in the future could significantly increase the cost of doing business or otherwise adversely impact our financial results.. In addition, risks associated with information technology systems failures or network disruptions, including risks associated with upgrading our systems or in successfully integrating information technology and other systems in connection with the integration of businesses we acquire, could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, financial reporting and our ability to protect our customer or company information, which could adversely effect our business or results of operations.. The occurrence or threat of extraordinary events, including domestic and international terrorist attacks, may disrupt our operations and decrease demand for our products.. Chemical-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets in the U.S. and around the world. As a result, we are subject to existing federal rules and regulations (and may be subject to additional legislation or regulations in the future) that impose site security requirements on chemical manufacturing facilities, which increase our overhead expenses.. We are also subject to federal regulations that have heightened security requirements for the transportation of hazardous chemicals in the United States. We believe we have met these requirements but additional federal and local regulations that limit the distribution of hazardous materials are being considered. We ship and receive materials that are classified as hazardous. Bans on movement of hazardous materials through cities, like Washington, D.C., could affect the efficiency of our logistical operations. Broader restrictions on hazardous material movements could lead to additional investment to produce hazardous raw materials and change where and what products we manufacture.. The Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards program (\"CFATS Program\"), which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security (\"DHS\"), identifies and regulates chemical facilities to ensure that they have security measures in place to reduce the risks associated with potential terrorist attacks on chemical plants located in the U.S. In December 2014, the Protecting and Securing Chemical Facilities from Terrorist Attacks Act of 2014 (\"CFATS Act\") was enacted. The CFATS Act reauthorizes the CFATS Program for four years. DHS has released an interim final rule under the CFATS Program that imposes comprehensive federal security regulations for high-risk chemical facilities in possession of specified quantities of chemicals of interest. This rule establishes risk-based performance standards for the security of the U.S.'s chemical facilities. It requires covered chemical facilities to prepare Security Vulnerability Assessments, which identify facility security vulnerabilities, and to develop and implement Site Security Plans, which include measures that satisfy the identified risk-based performance standards. We cannot determine with certainty the costs associated with any security measures that DHS may require.. The occurrence of extraordinary events, including future terrorist attacks and the outbreak or escalation of hostilities, cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to continue to negatively affect the economy in general, and the markets for our products in particular. The resulting damage from a direct attack on our assets, or assets used by us, could include loss of life and property damage. In addition, available insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of the damage incurred or, if available, may be prohibitively expensive.. Natural disasters and weather-related matters could impact our results of operations.. Historically, major hurricanes have caused significant disruption to the operations on the U.S. Gulf Coast for many of our customers and our suppliers of certain raw materials, which had an adverse impact on volume and cost for some of our products. Our operations in Chile could be subject to significant rain events and earthquakes. If similar weather-related matters or other natural disasters occur in the future, they could negatively affect the results of operations at our sites in the affected regions as well as have adverse impacts on the global economy.. 16. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. Our insurance may not fully cover all potential exposures.. We maintain property, business interruption, casualty, and other insurance, but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and coverage limits. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental remediation. In addition, from time to time, various types of insurance for companies in the specialty chemical industry have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, have not been available at all. We are potentially at additional risk if one or more of our insurance carriers fail. Additionally, severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets could adversely impact the ratings and survival of some insurers. Future downgrades in the ratings of enough insurers could adversely impact both the availability of appropriate insurance coverage and its cost. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, if at all, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain.. We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change.. Growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional regulations or restrictions to which we may become subject. Climate changes include changes in rainfall and in storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, significantly changing sea levels and increasing atmospheric and water temperatures, among others. For example, there have been concerns regarding the declining water level of the Dead Sea, from which our joint venture, JBC, produces bromine. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to climate change, including regulating greenhouse gas emissions. Potentially, additional U.S. federal regulation will be forthcoming with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide) and/or \"cap and trade\" legislation that could impact our operations. In addition, we have operations in the European Union, Brazil, China, Japan, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates, which have implemented measures to achieve objectives under the Kyoto Protocol, an international agreement linked to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (\"UNFCC\"), which set binding targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.. The outcome of new legislation or regulation in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we operate may result in new or additional requirements, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, and fees or restrictions on certain activities. While certain climate change initiatives may result in new business opportunities for us in the area of alternative fuel technologies and emissions control, compliance with these initiatives may also result in additional costs to us, including, among other things, increased production costs, additional taxes, reduced emission allowances or additional restrictions on production or operations. Any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Even without such regulation, increased public awareness and adverse publicity about potential impacts on climate change emanating from us or our industry could harm us. We may not be able to recover the cost of compliance with new or more stringent laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our business and negatively impact our growth. Furthermore, the potential impact of climate change and related regulation on our customers is highly uncertain and there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Economic conditions and regulatory changes relating to the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union could adversely impact our business.. Following a referendum in 2016, voters in the United Kingdom (\"U.K.\") approved that country's exit from the European Union (\"E.U.\"), a process often referred to as \"Brexit.\" Subsequently, in March 2017, the U.K. invoked Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which provides a two-year time period through March 2019 for the U.K. and the remaining E.U. countries to negotiate a withdrawal agreement. The future effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to the E.U. or other markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. Given the lack of comparable precedent and the uncertainty around the terms upon which the U.K. will leave the E.U., it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications Brexit would have and how such withdrawal would affect our Company. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales outside the U.S., including 17% from E.U. countries. The consequences of Brexit, together with what may be protracted negotiations around the terms of Brexit, could introduce significant uncertainties into global financial markets, including volatility in foreign currencies, and adversely impact the markets in which we and our customers operate. Although we are not experiencing any immediate adverse impact on our financial condition as a result of Brexit, adverse consequences such as deterioration in economic conditions, volatility in currency exchange rates or adverse changes in regulation could have a negative impact on our future operations, operating results and financial condition. All of these potential consequences could be further magnified if additional countries were to exit the E.U.. 17. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. If we are unable to retain key personnel or attract new skilled personnel, it could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including our management team. In light of the specialized and technical nature of our business, our performance is dependent on the continued service of, and on our ability to attract and retain, qualified management, scientific, technical, marketing and support personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may be unable to continue to attract or retain such personnel. In addition, because of our reliance on our senior management team, the unanticipated departure of any key member of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and develop or recruit talent to succeed our senior management and other key positions throughout the organization. If we fail to identify and develop or recruit successors, we are at risk of being harmed by the departures of these key employees. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.. Some of our employees are unionized, represented by works councils or are employed subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws of the U.S.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 5,400 employees, including employees of our consolidated joint ventures. Approximately 35% of these employees are represented by unions or works councils. In addition, a large number of our employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other rights to employees than the laws of the United States. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of those employees to effect any changes to labor arrangements. For example, most of our employees in Europe are represented by works councils that must approve any changes in conditions of employment, including salaries and benefits and staff changes, and may impede efforts to restructure our workforce. Although we believe that we have a good working relationship with our employees, a strike, work stoppage, slowdown or significant dispute with our employees could result in a significant disruption of our operations or higher labor costs.. Our joint ventures may not operate according to their business plans if our partners fail to fulfill their obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations and may force us to dedicate additional resources to these joint ventures.. We currently participate in a number of joint ventures and may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control with unaffiliated third parties. If our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate according to its business plan. In that case, our results of operations may be adversely affected and we may be required to materially change the level of our commitment to the joint venture. Also, differences in views among joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failures to agree on major issues. If these differences cause the joint ventures to deviate from their business plans, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition. Our required capital expenditures can be complex, may experience delays or other difficulties, and the costs may exceed our estimates.. Our capital expenditures generally consist of expenditures to maintain and improve existing equipment or facilities, or substantial investments in new or expanded equipment and facilities. Execution of these capital expenditures can be complex, and commencement of production requires start-up, commission and certification of product quality by our customers, which may impact the expected output and timing of sales of product from such facilities. Construction of large chemical operations is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, among others, the ability to complete a project on a timely basis and in accordance with the estimated budget for such project and our ability to estimate future demand for our products.. Future capital expenditures may be significantly higher, depending on the investment requirements of each of our business lines, and may also vary substantially if we are required to undertake actions to compete with new technologies in our industry. We may not have the capital necessary to undertake these capital investments. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to effectively compete in some of our markets.. We will need a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or use existing cash balances to make scheduled payments on our debt depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt obligations. If we are unable to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, reduce or delay capital. 18. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. expenditures, sell assets or raise additional equity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise additional equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow or use existing cash balances to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect our business.. Our senior credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes contain select restrictive covenants. These covenants provide constraints on our financial flexibility. The failure to comply with these or other covenants governing other indebtedness, including indebtedness incurred in the future, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including cross-defaults to other debt facilities. See \"Financial Condition and Liquidity - Long-Term Debt\" in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing, the market price of our securities and our debt service obligations.. Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include our operating results, actions that we take, their view of the general outlook for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading or downgrading the current rating or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrades. Downgrading the credit rating of our debt securities or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrades would likely increase our cost of future financing, limit our access to the capital markets and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities.. Borrowings under a portion of our debt facilities bear interest at floating rates, and are subject to adjustment based on the ratings of our senior unsecured long-term debt. The downgrading of any of our ratings or an increase in any of the benchmark interest rates would result in an increase of the interest expense on our variable rate borrowings.. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect our operating results and net income.. We conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most of the countries in which we operate. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets, liabilities, net sales, cost of goods sold and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. The primary currencies to which we have exposure are the European Union Euro, Japanese Yen, Chinese Renminbi, South Korean Won, Australian Dollar, Chilean Peso and Taiwan Dollar. Exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. Dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. With respect to our potential exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations, for the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 34% of our net sales were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Significant changes in these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar could also have an adverse effect on our ability to meet interest and principal payments on any foreign currency-denominated debt outstanding. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risks whenever one of our operating subsidiaries or joint ventures enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from its functional currency. Our operating results and net income may be affected by any volatility in currency exchange rates and our ability to manage effectively our currency transaction and translation risks.. Changes in, or the interpretation of, tax legislation or rates throughout the world could materially impact our results.. Our effective tax rate and related tax balance sheet attributes could be impacted by changes in tax legislation throughout the world. Currently, the majority of our net sales are generated from customers located outside the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and employees are located outside of the United States.. We have not accrued income taxes or foreign withholding taxes on undistributed earnings for most non-U.S. subsidiaries, because those earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. Certain tax proposals with respect to such earnings could substantially increase our tax expense, which would substantially reduce our income and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows from operating activities. We have provided deferred income taxes on the portion of undistributed foreign earnings determined not to be indefinitely reinvested in our foreign operations. In January 2018, we repatriated approximately $600 million of cash associated with earnings that were previously asserted to be indefinitely reinvested to fund our investment program. These repatriations do not change our assertion on the remaining foreign earnings that are deemed indefinitely reinvested.. 19. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, expirations of tax holidays or rulings, changes in the assessment regarding the realization of the valuation of deferred tax assets, or changes in tax laws and regulations or their interpretation. Recent developments, including the European Commission's investigations on illegal state aid, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (\"OECD\") project on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting and the enacted U.S tax reform legislation commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") during the fourth quarter of 2017 may result in changes to long-standing tax principles, which could adversely affect our effective tax rates or result in higher cash tax liabilities.. We are subject to the regular examination of our income tax returns by various tax authorities. Examinations in material jurisdictions or changes in laws, rules, regulations or interpretations by local taxing authorities could result in impacts to tax years open under statute or to foreign operating structures currently in place. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations or changes in laws, rules, regulations or interpretations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. It is possible the outcomes from these examinations will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. We may be subject to increased tax exposure resulting from Rockwood pre-acquisition periods.. Under the terms of certain purchase agreements, third party sellers have agreed to substantially indemnify us for tax liabilities pertaining to Rockwood's periods prior to its acquisition by us. These indemnity obligations will continue generally until the applicable statutes of limitations expire. To the extent that such companies fail to indemnify or satisfy their obligations, or if any amount is not covered by the terms of the indemnity, our earnings could be negatively impacted in future periods through increased tax expense.. Future events may impact our deferred tax asset position and U.S. deferred federal income taxes on undistributed earnings of international affiliates that are considered to be indefinitely reinvested.. We evaluate our ability to utilize deferred tax assets and our need for valuation allowances based on available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between future projected operating performance and actual results. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be utilized. In making this determination, we evaluate all positive and negative evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments (either increases or decreases), to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance are determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The utilization of our deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carry-back or carry-forward periods under the applicable tax law. Due to significant estimates used to establish the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Changes to the valuation allowance or the amount of deferred tax liabilities could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, should we change our assertion regarding the permanent reinvestment of the undistributed earnings in foreign operations, a deferred tax liability may need to be established.. Our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings.. We are involved from time to time in legal and regulatory proceedings, which may be material in the future. The outcome of proceedings, lawsuits and claims may differ from our expectations, leading us to change estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables.. Legal and regulatory proceedings, whether with or without merit, and associated internal investigations, may be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute, defend or conduct, may divert management's attention and other resources, inhibit our ability to sell our products, result in adverse judgments for damages, injunctive relief, penalties and fines, and otherwise negatively affect our business.. Because a significant portion of our operations is conducted through our subsidiaries and joint ventures, our ability to service our debt may be dependent on our receipt of distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries and joint ventures.. A significant portion of our operations is conducted through our subsidiaries and joint ventures. As a result, our ability to service our debt may be partially dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and joint ventures and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. Payments to us by our subsidiaries and joint ventures are contingent upon our subsidiaries' or joint ventures' earnings and other business. 20. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. considerations and may be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. In addition, there may be significant tax and other legal restrictions on the ability of our non-U.S. subsidiaries or joint ventures to remit money to us.. Although our pension plans currently meet minimum funding requirements, events could occur that would require us to make significant contributions to the plans and reduce the cash available for our business.. We have several defined benefit pension plans around the world, including in the U.S., U.K., Germany, Belgium and Japan. We are required to make cash contributions to our pension plans to the extent necessary to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by the various countries' benefit and tax laws. The amount of any such required contributions will be determined annually based on an actuarial valuation of the plans as performed by the plans' actuaries.. In previous years, we have made voluntary contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans. We anticipate approximately $7.9 million of required cash contributions during 2018 for our defined benefit pension plans. Additional voluntary pension contributions in and after 2018 may vary depending on factors such as asset returns, interest rates, and legislative changes. The amounts we may elect or be required to contribute to our pension plans in the future may increase significantly. These contributions could be substantial and would reduce the cash available for our business.. Further, an economic downturn or recession or market disruption in the capital and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our pension plan assets, our results of operations, our statement of changes in stockholders' equity and our liquidity. Our funding obligations could change significantly based on the investment performance of the pension plan assets and changes in actuarial assumptions for local statutory funding valuations. Any deterioration of the capital markets or returns available in such markets may negatively impact our pension plan assets and increase our funding obligations for one or more of these plans and negatively impact our liquidity. We cannot predict the impact of this or any further market disruption on our pension funding obligations.. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or integrate acquisitions into our business, which could result in unanticipated expenses and losses.. We believe that our customers are increasingly looking for strong, long-term relationships with a few key suppliers that help them improve product performance, reduce costs, and support new product development. To satisfy these growing customer requirements, our competitors have been consolidating within product lines through mergers and acquisitions.. As part of our business growth strategy, we have acquired businesses and entered into joint ventures in the past and intend to pursue acquisitions and joint venture opportunities in the future. Our ability to implement this component of our growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition or joint venture candidates and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. The expense incurred in consummating acquisitions or entering into joint ventures, the time it takes to integrate an acquisition or our failure to integrate businesses successfully, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize any of the anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures.. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the risks associated with the integration of acquisitions include:. • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management;. • unforeseen claims and liabilities, including unexpected environmental exposures;. • unforeseen adjustments, charges and write-offs;. • problems enforcing the indemnification obligations of sellers of businesses or joint venture partners for claims and liabilities;. • unexpected losses of customers of, or suppliers to, the acquired business;. • difficulty in conforming the acquired businesses' standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations;. • in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries;. • variability in financial information arising from the implementation of purchase price accounting;. • inability to coordinate new product and process development;. • loss of senior managers and other critical personnel and problems with new labor unions and cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; and. • challenges arising from the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations.. 21. Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries. We may continue to expand our business through acquisitions and we may incur additional indebtedness, including indebtedness related to acquisitions.. We have historically expanded our business primarily through acquisitions. A part of our business strategy is to continue to grow through acquisitions that complement our existing technologies and accelerate our growth. Our credit facilities have limited financial maintenance covenants. In addition, the indenture and other agreements governing our senior notes do not limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. As a result, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in connection with acquisitions.. Any such additional indebtedness and the related debt service obligations could have important consequences and risks for us, including:. • reducing flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses, the competitive environment and the industries in which we operate, and to technological and other changes;. • lowering credit ratings;. • reducing access to capital and increasing borrowing costs generally or for any additional indebtedness to finance future operating and capital expenses and for general corporate purposes;. • reducing funds available for operations, capital expenditures and other activities; and. • creating competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels.. If our goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. Under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\"GAAP\"), we review our intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment on October 31 of each year, or more frequently if required. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets may not be recoverable, include, but are not limited to, a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations and financial condition."
