[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Alcoa's business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by a number of factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially harm its business, financial condition or results of operations, including causing Alcoa's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. The following list of significant risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Alcoa or that Alcoa currently deems immaterial also may materially adversely affect us in future periods. See the discussion under \"Forward-Looking Statements\" in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Business. The aluminum industry and aluminum end-use markets are highly cyclical and are influenced by a number of factors, including global economic conditions.. The cyclical nature of the industries in which our customers operate causes demand for our products to be cyclical, creating potential uncertainty regarding future profitability. The demand for aluminum is sensitive to, and quickly impacted by, demand for the finished goods manufactured by our customers in industries that are cyclical, such as the commercial construction, transportation, and automotive industries, which may change as a result of changes in the global economy, currency exchange rates, energy prices or other factors beyond our control. Various changes in general economic conditions may affect the industries in which our customers operate. The demand for aluminum is highly correlated to economic growth. The Chinese market is a significant source of global demand for, and supply of, commodities, including aluminum. A sustained slowdown in Chinese aluminum demand due to slower economic growth or change in government policies, or a significant slowdown in other markets, that is not offset by decreases in supply of aluminum or increased aluminum demand in emerging economies, such as India, Brazil, and several Southeast Asian countries, could have an adverse effect on the global supply and demand for aluminum and aluminum prices. As a result of these factors, our profitability is subject to significant fluctuation.. 28. Table of Contents. While we believe the long-term prospects for aluminum and aluminum products are positive, we are unable to predict the future course of industry variables or the strength of the global economy and the effects of government intervention. Negative economic conditions, such as a major economic downturn, a prolonged recovery period, a downturn in the commodity sector, or disruptions in the financial markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. While the aluminum market is often the leading cause of changes in the alumina and bauxite markets, those markets also have industry-specific risks including, but not limited to, global freight markets, energy markets, and regional supply-demand imbalances. The aluminum industry specific risks can have a material effect on profitability for the alumina and bauxite markets.. We could be materially adversely affected by declines in aluminum and alumina prices, including global, regional and product-specific prices.. The overall price of primary aluminum consists of several components: (i) the underlying base metal component, which is typically based on quoted prices from the LME; (ii) the regional premium, which comprises the incremental price over the base LME component that is associated with the physical delivery of metal to a particular region (e.g., the Midwest premium for metal sold in the United States); and (iii) the product premium, which represents the incremental price for receiving physical metal in a particular shape (e.g., coil, billet, slab, rod, etc.) or alloy. Each of the above three components has its own drivers of variability. The LME price is typically driven by macroeconomic factors, global supply and demand of aluminum (including expectations for growth and contraction and the level of global inventories), and trading activity of financial investors. An imbalance in global supply and demand of aluminum, such as decreasing demand without corresponding supply declines, could have a negative impact on aluminum pricing. In 2017, the cash LME price of aluminum reached a high of $2,246 per metric ton and a low of $1,701 per metric ton. High LME inventories, or the release of substantial inventories into the market, could lead to a reduction in the price of aluminum. Declines in the LME price have had a negative impact on our results of operations. Additionally, our results could be adversely affected by decreases in regional premiums that participants in the physical metal market pay for immediate delivery of aluminum. Regional premiums tend to vary based on the supply of and demand for metal in a particular region and associated transportation costs. LME warehousing rules and surpluses have caused regional premiums to decrease, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. Product premiums generally are a function of supply and demand for a given primary aluminum shape and alloy combination in a particular region. Periods of industry overcapacity may also result in a weak aluminum pricing environment. A sustained weak LME aluminum pricing environment, deterioration in LME aluminum prices, or a decrease in regional premiums or product premiums could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flow.. Most of our alumina contracts contain two pricing components: (1) the API price basis, and (2) a negotiated adjustment basis that takes into account various factors, including freight, quality, customer location and market conditions. Because the API component can exhibit significant volatility due to market exposure, revenue associated with our alumina operations are exposed to market pricing. Our bauxite-related contracts are typically one to two-year contracts with very little, if any, market exposure; however, we intend to enter into long-term bauxite contracts and therefore, our revenue associated with our bauxite operations may become further exposed to market pricing.. Changes to LME policies could cause aluminum prices to decrease.. In 2013, the LME undertook a program aimed at reforming the rules under which registered warehouses in its global network operate. The initial rule changes took effect on February 1, 2015. Additional changes occurred throughout 2015 and 2016, culminating in an increased minimum daily load-out rate and caps on warehouse charges. These rule changes, and any subsequent changes the exchange chooses to make, could impact the supply/demand balance in the primary aluminum physical market and may impact regional delivery premiums and LME aluminum prices. Decreases in regional delivery premiums and/or decreases in LME aluminum prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flow.. 29. Table of Contents. We may not be able to realize the expected benefits from our strategy of creating a lower cost, competitive commodity business by optimizing our portfolio.. We are continuing to execute a strategy of creating a lower cost, competitive integrated aluminum production business by optimizing our portfolio of assets. We are taking decisive actions to lower the cost base of our operations, including closing, selling or curtailing high-cost global smelting capacity, optimizing alumina refining capacity, and pursuing the sale of our interest in certain other operations. We may not be able to realize the expected benefits from this strategy.. We have made, and may continue to plan and execute, acquisitions and divestitures and take other actions to grow or streamline our portfolio. There is no assurance that anticipated benefits of our strategic actions will be realized. With respect to portfolio optimization actions such as divestitures, curtailments and closures, we may face barriers to exit from unprofitable businesses or operations, including high exit costs or objections from various stakeholders. In addition, we may incur unforeseen liabilities for divested entities if a buyer fails to honor all commitments. Our business operations are capital intensive, and curtailment or closure of operations or facilities may include significant charges, including asset impairment charges and other measures. There can be no assurance that divestitures or closures will be undertaken or completed in their entirety as planned at the anticipated cost, or that such actions will be beneficial to the Company.. Market-driven balancing of global aluminum supply and demand may be disrupted by non-market forces.. In response to market-driven factors relating to the global supply and demand of aluminum and alumina, we have curtailed or closed portions of our aluminum and alumina production capacity. Certain other industry producers have independently undertaken to reduce production as well. Reductions in production may be delayed or impaired by the terms of long-term contracts to buy power or raw materials.. The existence of non-market forces on global aluminum industry capacity, such as political pressures in certain countries to keep jobs or to maintain or further develop industry self-sufficiency, may prevent or delay the closure or curtailment of certain producers' smelters, irrespective of their position on the industry cost curve. For example, Chinese excess capacity and increased exports from China of heavily subsidized aluminum products could materially disrupt world aluminum markets causing pricing deterioration. If industry overcapacity exists due to the disruption by such non-market forces on the market-driven balancing of the global supply and demand of aluminum, a resulting weak pricing environment and margin compression may adversely affect the operating results of the Company.. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy; profitability may decline if energy costs rise or if energy supplies are interrupted.. Although we generally expect to meet the energy requirements for our alumina refineries and primary aluminum smelters from internal sources or from long-term contracts, certain conditions could negatively affect our results of operations, including the following:. <U+0095>    significant increases in electricity costs rendering smelter operations uneconomic;. <U+0095>    significant increases in fuel oil or natural gas prices;. <U+0095>    unavailability of electrical power or other energy sources due to droughts, hurricanes or other natural causes;. <U+0095>    unavailability of energy due to local or regional energy shortages resulting in insufficient supplies to serve consumers;. <U+0095>    interruptions in energy supply or unplanned outages due to equipment failure or other causes;. <U+0095>    curtailment of one or more refineries or smelters due to the inability to extend energy contracts upon expiration or to negotiate new arrangements on cost-effective terms or due to the unavailability of energy at competitive rates; or. 30. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    curtailment of one or more smelters due to discontinuation of power supply interruptibility rights granted to us under an interruptibility regime in place under the laws of the country in which the smelter is located, or due to a determination that such arrangements do not comply with applicable laws, thus rendering the smelter operations that had been relying on such country's interruptibility regime uneconomic.. If events such as those listed above were to occur, the resulting high energy costs or the disruption of an energy source or the requirement to repay all or a portion of the benefit we received under a power supply interruptibility regime could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our global operations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows.. We have operations or activities in numerous countries and regions outside the United States, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Europe, Guinea, Suriname, and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The risks associated with the Company's global operations include:. <U+0095>    economic and commercial instability risks, including those caused by sovereign and private debt default, corruption, and changes in local government laws, regulations and policies, such as those related to tariffs and trade barriers, taxation, exchange controls, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings;. <U+0095>    geopolitical risks, such as political instability, civil unrest, expropriation, nationalization of properties by a government, imposition of sanctions, changes to import or export regulations and fees, renegotiation or nullification of existing agreements, mining leases and permits;. <U+0095>    war or terrorist activities;. <U+0095>    major public health issues, such as an outbreak of a pandemic or epidemic, which could cause disruptions in our operations or workforce;. <U+0095>    difficulties enforcing intellectual property and contractual rights in certain jurisdictions; and. <U+0095>    unexpected events, including fires or explosions at facilities, and natural disasters.. While the impact of any of the foregoing factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for the costs that may arise from such events.. Our global operations expose us to various legal and regulatory systems, and changes in conditions beyond our control in foreign countries.. In addition to the business risks inherent in operating outside the United States, legal and regulatory systems may be less developed and predictable and the possibility of various types of adverse governmental action more pronounced. Unexpected or uncontrollable events or circumstances in any of these foreign markets, including actions by foreign governments such as changes in fiscal regimes, termination of our agreements with such foreign governments or increased government regulation could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Substantial changes to fiscal, tax and trade policies and executive and legislative actions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The U.S. presidential administration has called for substantial changes to U.S. trade policy and proposed imposing significant increases in U.S. import tariffs. Changes in international trade agreements, regulations, restrictions, and tariffs may increase our operating costs and make it more difficult for us to compete in the U.S. and overseas markets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. 31. Table of Contents. We face significant competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability.. We compete with a variety of both U.S. and non-U.S. aluminum industry competitors as well as with producers of other materials, such as steel, titanium, plastics, composites, ceramics, and glass, among others. Technological advancements or other developments by or affecting Alcoa's competitors or customers could affect our results of operations. In addition, our competitive position depends, in part, on our ability to leverage innovation expertise across businesses and key end markets and us having access to an economical power supply to sustain our operations in various countries. See \"Business - Competition.\". Our business is capital intensive, and if there are downturns in the industries that we serve, we may be forced to significantly curtail or suspend operations with respect to those industries, which could result in our recording asset impairment charges or taking other measures that may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.. Our business operations are capital intensive. If there are downturns in the industries that we serve, we may be forced to significantly curtail or suspend our operations with respect to those industries, including laying-off employees, recording asset impairment charges and other measures. In addition, we may not realize the benefits or expected returns from announced plans, programs, initiatives and capital investments. Any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.. Our business and growth prospects may be negatively impacted by limits in our capital expenditures.. We require substantial capital to invest in growth opportunities and to maintain and prolong the life and capacity of our existing facilities. Insufficient cash generation or capital project overruns may negatively impact our ability to fund as planned our sustaining and return-seeking capital projects. We may also need to address commercial and political issues in relation to reductions in capital expenditures in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate. If our interest in our joint ventures is diluted or we lose key concessions, our growth could be constrained. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Our capital resources may not be adequate to provide for all of our cash requirements, and we are exposed to risks associated with financial, credit, capital, and banking markets.. In the ordinary course of business, we expect to seek to access competitive financial, credit, capital and/or banking markets. Currently, we believe we have adequate access to these markets to meet our reasonably anticipated business needs based on our historic financial performance and strong financial position. To the extent our access to competitive financial, credit, capital and/or banking markets was to be impaired, our operations, financial results and cash flows could be adversely impacted.. Deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit.. The major credit rating agencies evaluate our creditworthiness and give us specified credit ratings. These ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and financial policies as well as our strategies, operations and execution. These credit ratings are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks related to investment in us, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued. Nonetheless, the credit ratings we receive impact our borrowing costs as well as our access to sources of capital on terms that will be advantageous to our business. Failure to obtain sufficiently high credit ratings could adversely affect the interest rate in future financings, our liquidity or our competitive position and could also restrict our access to capital markets. In addition, our credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. If a rating agency were to downgrade our rating, our borrowing costs would increase, and our funding sources could decrease. As a result of these factors, a downgrade of our credit ratings could have a materially adverse impact on our future operations and financial position.. 32. Table of Contents. Our indebtedness restricts our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations.. In 2016, Alcoa and Alcoa Nederland Holding B.V. (\"ANHBV\"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alcoa, entered into a revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders and issuers named therein, (as subsequently amended, the \"Revolving Credit Agreement\"). The terms of the Revolving Credit Agreement and the indenture governing our notes contain covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including on our ability to, among other things:. <U+0095>    make investments, loans, advances, and acquisitions;. <U+0095>    dispose of assets;. <U+0095>    incur or guarantee additional debt and issue certain disqualified equity interests and preferred stock;. <U+0095>    make certain restricted payments, including by limiting the amount of dividends on equity securities and payments to redeem, repurchase or retire equity securities or other indebtedness;. <U+0095>    engage in transactions with affiliates;. <U+0095>    materially alter the business we conduct;. <U+0095>    enter into certain restrictive agreements;. <U+0095>    create liens on assets to secure debt;. <U+0095>    consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of Alcoa's, ANHBV's or a subsidiary guarantor's assets; and. <U+0095>    take any actions that would reduce our ownership of AWAC entities below an agreed level.. The Revolving Credit Agreement requires us to comply with financial covenants. The Revolving Credit Agreement requires that we maintain an interest expense coverage ratio of not less than 5.00 to 1.00, and a leverage ratio for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters that is not greater than 2.25 to 1.00, although, under the Revolving Credit Agreement, such leverage ratio may be increased to a level not higher than 2.50 to 1.00 in certain circumstances.. In addition, all obligations of Alcoa Corporation or a domestic entity under the Revolving Credit Facility are secured by, subject to certain exceptions, a first priority lien on substantially all assets of Alcoa Corporation and the material domestic wholly-owned subsidiaries of Alcoa Corporation and certain equity interests of specified non-U.S. subsidiaries. Our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other opportunities. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the Revolving Credit Agreement or the indenture governing our notes.. For more information on the restrictive covenants in the Revolving Credit Agreement, see Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Financing Activities.\". Our failure to comply with the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including the Revolving Credit Agreement and the indenture governing our notes, we may not be able to incur additional indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Agreement and the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure that our assets or cash flow. 33. Table of Contents. would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate as a going concern. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured indebtedness, the holders of such indebtedness could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument also could result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments.. We may not realize expected benefits from our productivity and cost-reduction initiatives.. We have undertaken, and may continue to undertake, productivity and cost-reduction initiatives to improve performance and conserve cash, including procurement strategies for raw materials, labor productivity, improving operating performance, deployment of Company-wide business process models, such as our degrees of implementation process in which ideas are executed in a disciplined manner to generate savings, and overhead cost reductions. There is no assurance that these initiatives will be successful or beneficial to us or that estimated cost savings from such activities will be realized.. Cyber-attacks and security breaches may threaten the integrity of our intellectual property and other sensitive information, disrupt our business operations, and result in reputational harm and other negative consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We face global cybersecurity threats, which may range from uncoordinated individual attempts to sophisticated and targeted measures, known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the Company. Cyber-attacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, constantly evolving in nature, becoming more sophisticated, and being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of expertise and motives. Cyber-attacks and security breaches may include, but are not limited to, attempts to access information or digital infrastructure, computer viruses, denial of service and other electronic security breaches.. We believe that we face a heightened threat of cyber-attacks due to the industries we serve and the locations of our operations. Due to the evolving nature of cybersecurity threats, the scope and impact of any incident cannot be predicted. While the Company continually works to safeguard our systems and mitigate potential risks, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent cyber-attacks or security breaches that manipulate or improperly use our systems or networks, compromise confidential or otherwise protected information, destroy or corrupt data, or otherwise disrupt our operations. The occurrence of such events could negatively impact our reputation and our competitive position and could result in litigation with third parties, regulatory action, loss of business, potential liability and increased remediation costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, such attacks or breaches could require significant management attention and resources, and result in the diminution of the value of our investment in research and development. Furthermore, while we have disaster recovery and business continuity plans in place, if our information technology systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly for any reason, including the poor performance of, failure of or cyber-attack on third-party service providers, catastrophic events, power outages, cyber-security breaches, network outages, failed upgrades or other similar events and, if the disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve such issues on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage or conduct business as well as reputational harm, and may be subject to governmental investigations and litigation, any of which may adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our profitability could be adversely affected by increases in the cost of raw materials, by significant lag effects of decreases in commodity or LME-linked costs or by large or sudden shifts in the global inventory of aluminum and the resulting market price impacts.. Our results of operations are affected by changes in the cost of raw materials, including energy, carbon products, caustic soda and other key inputs, as well as freight costs associated with transportation of raw materials to refining and smelting locations. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material costs or energy costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. Similarly, our operating results are affected by significant lag effects of declines in key costs of production that are commodity or LME-linked. For example, declines. 34. Table of Contents. in the costs of alumina and power during a particular period may not be adequate to offset sharp declines in metal price in that period. We could also be adversely affected by large or sudden shifts in the global inventory of aluminum and the resulting market price impacts. Increases in the cost of raw materials or decreases in input costs that are disproportionate to concurrent sharper decreases in the price of aluminum, or shifts in global inventory of aluminum that result in changes to market prices, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Joint ventures and other strategic alliances may not be successful.. We participate in joint ventures and have formed strategic alliances and may enter into other similar arrangements in the future. For example, AWAC is an unincorporated global joint venture between Alcoa and Alumina Limited. AWAC consists of a number of affiliated entities, which own, operate or have an interest in, bauxite mines and alumina refineries, as well as an aluminum smelter, in seven countries. In addition, Alcoa is party to a joint venture with Ma'aden, the Saudi Arabian Mining Company, to develop a fully integrated aluminum complex (including a bauxite mine, alumina refinery, aluminum smelter and rolling mill) in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Although the Company has, in connection with these and our other existing joint ventures and strategic alliances, sought to protect our interests, joint ventures and strategic alliances inherently involve special risks. Whether or not the Company holds majority interests or maintains operational control in such arrangements, our partners may:. <U+0095>    have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with or opposed to those of the Company;. <U+0095>    exercise veto rights so as to block actions that we believe to be in our or the joint venture's or strategic alliance's best interests;. <U+0095>    take action contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to our investments; or. <U+0095>    as a result of financial or other difficulties, be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture, strategic alliance or other agreements, such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects.. There can be no assurance that our joint ventures or strategic alliances will be beneficial to us, whether due to the above-described risks, unfavorable global economic conditions, increases in construction costs, currency fluctuations, political risks, or other factors.. We could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of a significant customer or joint venture partner.. A significant downturn or deterioration in the business or financial condition of a key customer or joint venture partner could affect our results of operations in a particular period. Our customers may experience delays in the launch of new products, labor strikes, diminished liquidity or credit unavailability, weak demand for their products, or other difficulties in their businesses. If we are not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, profitability may be adversely affected. Our joint venture partners could be rendered unable to contribute their share of operating or capital costs, having an adverse impact on our business.. An adverse decline in the liability discount rate, lower-than-expected investment return on pension assets and other factors could affect our results of operations or amount of pension funding contributions in future periods.. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the amount of expense we record for our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, reductions in the fair value of plan assets, and other factors. We calculate income or expense for our plans using actuarial valuations in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\").. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may change based on changes in key economic indicators. The most significant year-end assumptions used by the Company to estimate. 35. Table of Contents. pension or other postretirement benefit income or expense for the following year are the discount rate applied to plan liabilities and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In addition, the Company is required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant charge to stockholders' equity. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits\" and Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption \"Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits.\" Although GAAP expense and pension funding contributions are impacted by different regulations and requirements, the key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash or securities we would contribute to the pension plans.. Potential pension contributions include both mandatory amounts required under federal law and discretionary contributions to improve the plans' funded status. Higher than expected pension contributions due to a decline in the plans' funded status as a result of declines in the discount rate or lower-than-expected investment returns on plan assets could have a material negative effect on our cash flows. Adverse capital market conditions could result in reductions in the fair value of plan assets and increase our liabilities related to such plans, adversely affecting our liquidity and results of operations.. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, as well as inflation, and other economic factors in the countries in which we operate.. Economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, competitive factors in the countries in which we operate, and continued volatility or deterioration in the global economic and financial environment could affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations. Changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, particularly the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Euro, and Norwegian kroner, may affect our profitability as some important inputs are purchased in other currencies, while our products are generally sold in U.S. dollars. In addition, although a strong U.S. dollar generally has a positive impact on our near-term profitability, over a longer term, a strong U.S. dollar may have an unfavorable impact on our position on the global aluminum cost curve due to the company's U.S. smelting portfolio. As the U.S. dollar strengthens, the cost curve shifts down for smelters outside the United States but costs for our U.S. smelting portfolio may not decline.. Weakness in global economic conditions or in any of the industries or geographic regions in which we or our customers operate, as well as the cyclical nature of our customers' businesses generally or sustained uncertainty in financial markets, could adversely impact our revenues and profitability by reducing demand and margins.. Our results of operations may be materially affected by the conditions in the global economy generally and in global capital markets. There has been extreme volatility in the capital markets and in the end markets and geographic regions in which we or our customers operate, which has negatively affected our revenues. Many of the markets in which our customers participate are also cyclical in nature and experience significant fluctuations in demand for our products based on economic conditions, consumer demand, raw material and energy costs, and government actions. Many of these factors are beyond our control.. A decline in consumer and business confidence and spending, severe reductions in the availability and cost of credit, and volatility in the capital and credit markets, could adversely affect the business and economic environment in which we operate and the profitability of our business. We are also exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our suppliers and customers. If the availability of credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of our customers' business operations is curtailed or if the cost of that credit is increased, the resulting inability of our customers or of their customers to either access credit or absorb the increased cost of that credit could adversely affect our business by reducing our sales or by increasing our exposure to losses from uncollectible customer accounts. These conditions and a disruption of the credit markets could also result in financial instability of some of our suppliers and customers. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays or interruptions of the supply of raw materials we purchase, and bankruptcy of customers, suppliers or other creditors. Any of these events could adversely affect our profitability, cash flow and financial condition.. 36. Table of Contents. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our future profitability.. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various non-U.S. jurisdictions. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our future profitability. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. Changes in applicable domestic or foreign tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, including the possibility of retroactive effect, could affect the Company's tax expense and profitability. Our tax expense includes estimates of additional tax that may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions. The assumptions include assessments of future earnings of the Company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of tax audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns or related litigation and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. Significant changes to the U.S. corporate tax system in particular could have a substantial impact, positive or negative, on our effective tax rate, cash tax expenditures and deferred tax assets and liabilities. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in the United States on December 22, 2017, reduces the U.S. corporate statutory tax rate, eliminates or limits tax deductions for several expenses that previously were deductible, imposes a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on undistributed historic earnings of foreign subsidiaries, requires a minimum tax on earnings generated by foreign subsidiaries and permits a tax-free repatriation of foreign earnings through a dividends received deduction. As discussed further in the Management Discussion and Analysis and the Company's financial statement, we continue to evaluate the overall impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our effective tax rate and balance sheet.. We may be exposed to significant legal proceedings, investigations or changes in U.S. federal, state or foreign law, regulation or policy.. Our results of operations or liquidity in a particular period could be affected by new or increasingly stringent laws, regulatory requirements or interpretations, or outcomes of significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to the Company. We may become subject to unexpected or rising costs associated with business operations or provision of health or welfare benefits to employees due to changes in laws, regulations or policies. We are also subject to a variety of legal compliance risks. These risks include, among other things, potential claims relating to health and safety, environmental matters, intellectual property rights, product liability, taxes and compliance with U.S. and foreign export laws, anti-bribery laws, competition laws and sales and trading practices. We could be subject to fines, penalties or damages (in certain cases, treble damages). In addition, if we violate the terms of our agreements with governmental authorities, we may face additional monetary sanctions and such other remedies as a court deems appropriate.. While we believe we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to address and reduce these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist, and additional legal proceedings and contingencies may arise from time to time. In addition, various factors or developments can lead the Company to change current estimates of liabilities or make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling or settlement or unfavorable changes in laws, regulations or policies, or other contingencies that the company cannot predict with certainty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. See \"Item 3, Legal Proceedings\" and Note R under the caption \"Contingencies and Commitments - Contingencies - Litigation\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. We are subject to a broad range of health, safety and environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and may be exposed to substantial costs and liabilities associated with such laws and regulations.. Our operations worldwide are subject to numerous complex and increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental laws and regulations and may be exposed to substantial costs and liabilities associated with such laws and. 37. Table of Contents. regulations. The costs of complying with such laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and cleanups of sites, as well as internal voluntary programs, are significant and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. Environmental laws may impose cleanup liability on owners and occupiers of contaminated property, including past or divested properties, regardless of whether the owners and occupiers caused the contamination or whether the activity that caused the contamination was lawful at the time it was conducted. Environmental matters for which we may be liable may arise in the future at our present sites, where no problem is currently known, at previously owned sites, at sites previously operated by the Company, at sites owned by our predecessors or at sites that we may acquire in the future. Compliance with environmental, health and safety legislation and regulatory requirements may prove to be more limiting and costly than we anticipate. Our results of operations or liquidity in a particular period could be affected by certain health, safety or environmental matters, including remediation costs and damages related to certain sites. Additionally, evolving regulatory standards and expectations can result in increased litigation and/or increased costs, all of which can have a material and adverse effect on earnings and cash flows.. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us. We may be subject to claims under federal and state statutes and/or common law doctrines for toxic torts and other damages as well as for natural resource damages and the investigation and clean-up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media under laws such as the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liabilities Act (\"CERCLA\", commonly known as \"Superfund\"). Such claims may arise, for example, out of current or former conditions at sites that we own or operate currently, as well as at sites that we and companies we acquired owned or operated in the past, and at contaminated sites that have always been owned or operated by third parties. Liability may be without regard to fault and may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share.. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could materially and adversely affect us.. Climate change, climate change legislation or regulations, extreme weather conditions, and greenhouse effects may adversely impact our operations and markets.. Energy is a significant input in a number of our operations. There is growing recognition that consumption of energy derived from fossil fuels is a contributor to global warming.. A number of governments or governmental bodies in areas of the world where we operate have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory change in response to the potential impacts of climate change. We will likely see changes in the margins of greenhouse gas-intensive assets and energy-intensive assets as a result of regulatory impacts in the countries in which we operate. These regulatory mechanisms may be either voluntary or legislated and may impact our operations directly or indirectly through customers or our supply chain. Inconsistency of regulations may also change the attractiveness of the locations of some of the Company's assets. Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change legislation, regulation and international treaties and accords are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in countries in which we operate. We may realize increased capital expenditures resulting from required compliance with revised or new legislation or regulations, costs to purchase or profits from sales of, allowances or credits under a \"cap and trade\" system, increased insurance premiums and deductibles as new actuarial tables are developed to reshape coverage, a change in competitive position relative to industry peers and changes to profit or loss arising from increased or decreased demand for goods produced by the Company and, indirectly, from changes in costs of goods sold.. The potential physical impacts of climate change or extreme weather conditions on the Company's operations are highly uncertain, and will be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, shortages of water or other natural resources, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns, increased frequency and intensities of storms, and changing temperature levels. For example, our Trombetas mine experienced. 38. Table of Contents. disruption to its normal operations due to separate weather events that impacted the tailing ponds (bauxite waste storage areas) and the washing plant in the first half (heavy rain) and the second half (drought conditions) of 2017, respectively. Effects such as these may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations.. Loss of key personnel may adversely affect our business.. Our success greatly depends on the performance of our executive management team. The loss of the services of any member of our executive management team or other key persons could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Union disputes and other employee relations issues could adversely affect our financial results.. A significant portion of our employees are represented by labor unions in a number of countries under various collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. See \"Business - Employees.\" Union disputes and other employee relations issues could adversely affect our financial results. We may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate collective bargaining agreements when they expire. In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at our facilities in the future. We may also be subject to general country strikes or work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements. A labor dispute or work stoppage by employees covered by collective bargaining agreements could have a material adverse effect on production at one or more of our facilities, and depending on the length of work stoppage, on our financial results.. We have only operated as an independent company since November 1, 2016, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the time periods represented and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.. The historical information about Alcoa Corporation in this report refers to Alcoa Corporation's businesses as operated by and integrated with ParentCo prior to November 1, 2016. Some of the historical financial information included in this report is derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of ParentCo. Accordingly, the historical financial information relating to 2016 and earlier years included in this report does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during those particular periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of significant changes in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a company separate from ParentCo. For additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of presentation of the historical consolidated financial statements, see \"Selected Financial Data of Alcoa Corporation,\" \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the historical financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this report.. In connection with our Separation Transaction from ParentCo, Arconic agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities and we agreed to indemnify Arconic for certain liabilities. If we are required to pay under these indemnities to Arconic, our financial results could be negatively impacted. The Arconic indemnity may not be sufficient to hold us harmless from the full amount of liabilities for which Arconic may be allocated responsibility, and Arconic may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future.. In connection with the Separation Transaction, Arconic agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify Arconic for certain liabilities, in each case for uncapped amounts, as discussed further in \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions.\" Indemnities that we may be required to provide Arconic are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business. Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Arconic has agreed to retain. Any amounts we are required to pay pursuant to these indemnification obligations and other liabilities could require us to divert cash that would otherwise have been used in furtherance of our operating business. Further, the indemnity from Arconic may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and Arconic may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations.. 39. Table of Contents. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Arconic any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Anti-takeover provisions could enable our management to resist a takeover attempt by a third party and limit the power of our stockholders, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.. Alcoa's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended bylaws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with Alcoa's Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:. <U+0095>    the inability of our stockholders to act by written consent unless such written consent is unanimous;. <U+0095>    the ability of our remaining directors to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors;. <U+0095>    limitations on stockholders' ability to call a special stockholder meeting;. <U+0095>    rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; and. <U+0095>    the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval.. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (\"DGCL\"), which provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with persons that acquire, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation may not engage in a business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or any of its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock.. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board of Directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make Alcoa immune from takeovers; however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of Alcoa and our stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and Delaware law, that have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of the Company could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares and could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for Alcoa stock.. In addition, an acquisition or further issuance of our stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Under the tax matters agreement, Alcoa is required to indemnify Arconic for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the state courts within the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against Alcoa and our directors and officers.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, a state court located within the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of Alcoa, any action asserting a claim for or based on a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any current or former director or officer of Alcoa to Alcoa or to Alcoa stockholders, any action asserting a claim. 40. Table of Contents. against Alcoa or any current or former director or officer of Alcoa arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, any action asserting a claim relating to or involving Alcoa governed by the internal affairs doctrine, or any action asserting an \"internal corporate claim\" as that term is defined in Section 115 of the DGCL. However, if a Delaware state court dismisses any such action for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, the action may be brought in the federal court for the District of Delaware. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with Alcoa or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against Alcoa and our directors and officers. Alternatively, if a court were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Your percentage of ownership in Alcoa may be diluted in the future.. In the future, your percentage ownership in Alcoa may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including any equity awards that we will grant to our directors, officers and employees. Our employees have stock-based awards that correspond to shares of our common stock as a result of conversion of their ParentCo stock-based awards. The Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors has granted stock-based awards to our employees, and we anticipate that it will grant additional stock-based awards to our employees in the future. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We cannot guarantee the existence, timing, amount or payment of dividends on our common stock.. The existence, timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to our stockholders falls within the discretion of our Board of Directors. The Board of Directors' decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, covenants associated with certain of our debt service obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. For more information, see Item 5 \"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.\" Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and on our access to the capital markets. We cannot guarantee that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend if we commence paying dividends."
