[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. (amounts in millions, except percentages). You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to invest in Alexion and our business because these risk factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Products. We depend heavily on the success of our lead product, Soliris. If sales of Soliris are adversely affected, our business may be materially harmed.. Currently, our ability to generate revenues depends primarily on the commercial success of Soliris and whether physicians, patients and healthcare payers view Soliris as therapeutically effective and safe relative to cost. Since we launched Soliris in the U.S. in 2007, substantially all of our revenue has been attributed to sales of Soliris. In 2015, we received marketing approval in the U.S., the EU and Japan, of our second marketed product, Strensiq, for the treatment of HPP. We also received marketing approval in 2015 in the U.S. and the EU for our third product, Kanuma, for the treatment of LAL-D. However, we anticipate that Soliris product sales will continue to contribute a significant percentage of our total revenue over the next several years.. The commercial success of Soliris and our ability to generate revenues depends on several factors, as discussed in greater detail below, including safety and efficacy of Soliris, coverage or reimbursement by government or third-party payers, pricing, manufacturing and uninterrupted supply, the introduction of and success of competing products, the size of patient populations and the number of patients diagnosed who may be treated with Soliris, adverse legal, administrative, regulatory or legislative developments, and our ability to develop, register and commercialize Soliris for new indications.. If we are not able to maintain revenues from sales of Soliris, or our revenues do not grow as anticipated, our results of operations and stock price could be adversely affected.. Our future commercial success depends on gaining regulatory approval for new products and obtaining approvals for existing products for new indications.. Our long-term success and revenue growth will depend upon the successful development of new products and technologies from our research and development activities, including those licensed or acquired from third parties and approval of additional indications for our existing products. Product development is very expensive and involves a high degree of risk. Only a small number of research and development programs result in the commercialization of a product. The process for obtaining regulatory approval to market a biologic is expensive, often takes many years, and can vary substantially based on the type, complexity, and novelty of the product candidates involved. Our ability to grow revenues would be adversely affected if we are delayed or unable to successfully develop the products in our pipeline, including Soliris for additional indications, obtain marketing approval for Strensiq and Kanuma in additional territories or acquire or license products and technologies from third parties.. We dedicate significant resources to the worldwide development, manufacture and commercialization of our products.  We cannot guarantee that any marketing application for our product candidates will be approved or maintained in any country where we seek marketing authorization. If we do not obtain regulatory approval of new products or additional indications for existing products, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our revenue growth will be adversely affected, we may experience surplus inventory, our business may be materially harmed and we may need to significantly curtail operations.. Because the target patient populations of Kanuma and Strensiq are small and have not been definitively determined, we must be able to successfully identify patients in order to maintain growth.. Kanuma and Strensiq are currently approved to treat ultra-rare diseases with small patient populations that have not been definitively determined. There can be no guarantee that any of our programs will be effective at identifying patients and the number of patients in the United States, Japan and Europe and elsewhere may turn out to be lower than expected, may not be otherwise amenable to treatment with Kanuma and Strensiq, or new patients may become increasingly difficult to identify, all of which would adversely affect our results of operations and our business.. 27. Sales of our products depend on reimbursement by government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. If we are unable to obtain, or maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for our products, or coverage is reduced, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed.. We may not be able to sell our products on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are required to sell our products at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. Our products are significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments and almost all patients require some form of third party coverage to afford their cost. We depend, to a significant extent, on governmental payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S. or country specific governmental organizations in foreign countries, and private third-party payers to defray the cost of our products to patients. These entities may refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement, determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement than anticipated, or reduce previously approved levels of coverage and reimbursement, including in the form of higher mandatory rebates or modified pricing terms.. In certain countries where we sell or are seeking or may seek to commercialize our products, pricing, coverage and level of reimbursement or funding of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control. We may be unable to timely or successfully negotiate coverage, pricing and reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us, or such coverage, pricing, and reimbursement may differ in separate regions in the same country. In some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country, which may include a combination of distinct potential payers, including private insurance and governmental payers as well as a HTA assessment of medicinal products for pricing and reimbursement methodologies. Therefore, we may not successfully conclude the necessary processes and commercialize our products in every, or even most countries in which we seek to sell our products.. A significant reduction in the amount of reimbursement or pricing for our products in one or more countries may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Certain countries establish pricing and reimbursement amounts by reference to the price of the same or similar products in other countries. Therefore, if coverage or the level of reimbursement is limited in one or more countries, we may be unable to obtain or maintain anticipated pricing or reimbursement in. current or new territories. In the U.S., the EU Member States, and elsewhere, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, efforts to control and reduce healthcare costs. In the U.S. for example, the price of drugs has come under intense scrutiny by the U.S. Congress. Third party payers decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement and co-payment levels. Government and other third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for healthcare products, examining the cost effectiveness of drugs in addition to their safety and efficacy, and limiting or attempting to limit both coverage and the level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. See additional discussion below under the heading \"Changes in healthcare law and implementing regulations, including those based on recently enacted legislation, as well as changes in healthcare policy and government initiatives that affect coverage and reimbursement of drug products may impact our business in ways that we cannot currently predict and these changes could adversely affect our business and financial condition\".. The potential increase in the number of patients receiving Soliris may cause third-party payers to modify or limit coverage or reimbursement for Soliris for the treatment of PNH, aHUS, gMG or all indications. In 2017, Soliris was approved in the U.S., EU and Japan as a treatment for adult patients with gMG who are anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody-positive. The potential increase in the number of patients receiving Soliris may cause third-party payers to refuse or limit coverage or reimbursement for Soliris for the treatment of PNH, aHUS or gMG, or provide a lower level of coverage or reimbursement than anticipated or currently in effect.. Health insurance programs may restrict coverage of some products by using payer formularies under which only selected drugs are covered, variable co-payments that make drugs that are not preferred by the payer more expensive for patients, and by using utilization management controls, such as requirements for prior authorization or failure first on another type of treatment. Payers may especially impose these obstacles to coverage for higher-priced drugs, and consequently our products may be subject to payer-driven restrictions.  Additionally, U.S. payers are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates.. In countries where patients have access to insurance, their insurance co-payment amounts or other benefit limits may represent a barrier to obtaining or continuing Soliris. We have financially supported non-profit organizations that assist patients in accessing treatment for PNH and aHUS, including Soliris. Such organizations assist patients whose insurance coverage imposes prohibitive co-payment amounts or other expensive financial obligations.. 28. Such organizations' ability to provide assistance to patients is dependent on funding from external sources, and we cannot guarantee that such funding will be provided at adequate levels, if at all. We have also provided our products without charge to patients who have no insurance coverage for drugs through related charitable purposes. We are not able to predict the financial impact of the support we may provide for these and other charitable purposes; however, substantial support could have a material adverse effect on our profitability in the future.. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining reimbursement at anticipated levels for our products. It may be difficult to project the impact of evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payers to cover our products. If we are unable to obtain or maintain coverage, or coverage is reduced in one or more countries, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed.. We may not be able to maintain market acceptance of our products among the medical community or patients, or gain market acceptance of our products in the future, which could prevent us from maintaining profitability or growth.. We cannot be certain that our products will maintain market acceptance in a particular country among physicians, patients, healthcare payers, and others. Although we have received regulatory approval of our products in certain territories, such approvals do not guarantee future revenue. We cannot predict whether physicians, other healthcare providers, government agencies or private insurers will determine or continue to accept that our products are safe and therapeutically effective relative to their cost. Physicians' willingness to prescribe, and patients' willingness to accept, our products, depends on many factors, including prevalence and severity of adverse side effects in both clinical trials and commercial use, the timing of the market introduction of competitive drugs, lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs, perceived lack of cost-effectiveness, pricing and lack of availability of reimbursement from third-party payers, convenience and ease of administration, effectiveness of our marketing strategy, publicity concerning the product, our other product candidates and availability of alternative treatments, including bone marrow transplant as an alternative treatment for PNH. The likelihood of physicians to prescribe Soliris for patients with aHUS may also depend on how quickly Soliris can be delivered to the hospital or clinic and our distribution methods may not be sufficient to satisfy this need. In addition, we are aware that medical doctors have determined not to continue Soliris treatment for some patients with aHUS.. If our products fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance among the medical community or patients in a particular country, we may not be able to market and sell our products successfully in such country, which would limit our ability to generate revenue and could harm our overall business.. Manufacturing issues at our facilities or the facilities of our third party service providers could cause product shortages, stop or delay commercialization of our products, disrupt or delay our clinical trials or regulatory approvals, and adversely affect our business.. The manufacture of our products and our product candidates is highly regulated, complex and difficult, requiring a multi-step controlled process and even minor problems or deviations could result in defects or failures. We have limited experience manufacturing commercial quantities of Strensiq and Kanuma. Only a small number of companies have the ability and capacity to manufacture our products for our development and commercialization needs. Due to the highly technical requirements of manufacturing our products and the strict quality and control specifications, we and our third party providers may be unable to manufacture or supply our products despite our and their efforts. Failure to produce sufficient quantities of our products and product candidates could result in lost revenue, diminish our profitability, delay the development of our product candidates, or result in supply shortages for our patients, which may lead to lawsuits or could accelerate introduction of competing products to the market.. The manufacture of our products and product candidates is at high risk of product loss due to contamination, equipment malfunctions, human error, or raw material shortages. Deviations from established manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. If microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our products or manufacturing facilities, we may need to close our manufacturing facilities for an extended period of time to investigate and remediate the contaminant. The occurrence of any such event could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for any of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. Many additional factors could cause production interruptions at our facilities or at the facilities of our third party providers, including natural disasters, labor disputes, acts of terrorism or war. The occurrence of any such event could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for Soliris, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. 29. We expect that the demand for Soliris will increase. We may underestimate demand for Soliris or any of our products, or experience product interruptions at Alexion's internal manufacturing facilities or a facility of a third party provider, including as a result of risks and uncertainties described in this report.. We and our third party providers are required to maintain compliance with cGMP and other stringent requirements and are subject to inspections by the FDA and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Any delay, interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our products as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection could significantly impair our ability to supply our products and product candidates. Significant noncompliance could also result in the imposition of monetary penalties or other civil or criminal sanctions and damage our reputation.. We rely on one to two facilities to manufacture each of our products. We are authorized to sell Soliris that is manufactured by Lonza and at ARIMF in the U.S., the EU, Japan and certain other territories. In September 2017, we announced our intention to close ARIMF. Manufacturing Soliris for commercial sale in certain other territories may only be performed at a single facility in some cases until such time as we have received the required regulatory approval for an additional facility, if ever, however in certain territories only a single manufacturing facility may be registered and we will continue to rely on a single manufacturing facility in such instances. We also depend entirely on one facility to manufacture Strensiq and on one facility for the purification of Kanuma for commercial sale. Regarding Kanuma, we rely on two animal facilities to produce the starting material, and a single manufacturing facility to manufacture the drug product.. We depend on a very limited number of third party providers for supply chain services with respect to our clinical and commercial product requirements, including product filling, finishing, packaging, and labeling. Our third party providers operate as independent entities and we do not have control over any third party provider's compliance with our internal or external specifications or the rules and regulations of regulatory agencies, including the FDA, competent authorities of the EU Member States, or any other applicable regulations or standards.. Any difficulties or delays in our third party manufacturing, or any failure of our third party providers to comply with our internal and external specifications or any applicable rules, regulations and standards could increase our costs, constrain our ability to satisfy demand for our products from. customers, cause us to lose revenue or incur penalties for failure to deliver product, make us postpone or cancel clinical trials, or cause our products to be recalled or withdrawn, such as the voluntary recalls that we initiated in 2013 and 2014 due to the presence of visible particles in a limited number of vials in specific lots.  Even if we are able to find alternatives, they may ultimately be insufficient for our needs. No guarantee can be made that regulators will approve additional third party providers in a timely manner or at all, or that any third party providers will be able to perform services for sufficient product volumes for any country or territory. Further, due to the nature of the current market for third-party commercial manufacturing, many arrangements require substantial penalty payments by the customer for failure to use the manufacturing capacity for which it contracted. Penalty payments under these agreements typically decrease over the life of the agreement, and may be substantial initially and de minimis or non-existent in the final period. The payment of a substantial penalty could harm our financial condition.. It can take longer than five years to build and validate a new manufacturing facility and it can take longer than three years to qualify and validate a new contract manufacturer. We have completed the build-out of a fill-finish facility in Ireland to support global drug product manufacture or vial fill finish of Soliris and Alexion's other clinical and commercial products. We cannot guarantee that this facility will receive all the necessary global regulatory approvals in a timely manner and we will continue to rely on appropriate third parties to supplement our fill finish operations until that time.   We also completed construction of a new facility in Dublin, Ireland in the fourth quarter of 2015, which is comprised of laboratories, packaging and warehousing operations and we intend to make significant further investment in this facility for the manufacture of our products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully and timely complete the appropriate validation processes or obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, or that we will be able to perform the intended supply chain services at either of these facilities for commercial or clinical use.. Certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our products are derived from biological sources. Such raw materials are difficult to procure and may be subject to contamination or recall. Access to and supply of sufficient quantities of raw materials which meet the technical specifications for the production process is challenging, and often limited to single-source suppliers. Finding an alternative supplier could take a significant amount of time and involve significant expense due to the nature of the products and the need to obtain regulatory approvals. The failure of. 30. these single-source suppliers to supply adequate quantities of raw materials for the production process in a timely manner may impact our ability to produce sufficient quantities of our products for clinical or commercial requirements. A material shortage, contamination, recall, or restriction on the use of certain biologically derived substances or any raw material used in the manufacture of our products could adversely impact or disrupt manufacturing.. In addition, Kanuma is a transgenic product. It is produced in the egg whites of genetically modified chickens who receive copies of the human lysosomal acid lipase gene to produce recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase. The facilities on which we rely to produce raw material for recombinant lysosomal acid lipase are the only animal facilities in the world that produces the necessary egg whites from transgenic chickens. Natural disasters, disease, such as exotic Newcastle disease or avian influenza, or other catastrophic events could have a significant impact on the supply of unpurified Kanuma, or destroy Alexion's animal operations altogether. If our animal operations are disrupted or destroyed, it will be extremely difficult to set up another animal facility to supply the unpurified Kanuma. This would adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for Kanuma, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. Any adverse developments affecting our manufacturing operations or the operations of our third-party providers could result in a product shortage of clinical or commercial requirements, withdrawal of our product candidates or any approved products, shipment delays, lot failures, or recalls. We may also have to write-off inventory and incur other charges and expenses for products that fail to meet specifications, undertake costly remediation efforts or seek more costly manufacturing alternatives. Such manufacturing issues could increase our cost of goods, cause us to lose revenue, reduce our profitability or damage our reputation.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and if we or our third party providers fail to comply with U.S. and foreign regulations, we or our third party providers could lose our approvals to market our products or our product candidates, and our business would be seriously harmed.. We and our current and future partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by governmental authorities around the world, including the FDA, EMA, the competent authorities of the EU Member States, and MHLW. If we or a regulatory agency discover previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, or in the case of Kanuma, problems. with animal operations, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, the manufacturing facility or us. For example, in March 2013, we received a Warning Letter from the FDA relating to compliance with FDA's cGMP requirements at ARIMF. In October 2017, the FDA notified Alexion that the Warning Letter has been resolved. If we had failed to address the FDA's concerns, the FDA or other regulatory authorities could have taken regulatory action, including fines, civil penalties, recalls, seizure of product, suspension of manufacturing operations, operating restrictions, injunctions, withdrawal of FDA approval, and/or criminal prosecution.. If we or our third-party providers, including our product fill-finish providers, packagers and labelers, fail to comply fully with applicable regulations, then we may be required to initiate a recall or withdrawal of our products. Like our contract manufacturers' manufacturing operations, our animal operations will also be subject to FDA inspection to evaluate whether our animal husbandry, containment, personnel, and record keeping practices are sufficient to ensure safety and security of our transgenic chickens and animal products (e.g., eggs, waste, etc.).  Our animal operations may also be subject to inspection by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA APHIS), the agency responsible for administering the Animal Welfare Act.  Any failure to ensure safety and security of our transgenic chickens and/or animal products could result in regulatory action by the FDA or another regulatory body, including USDA APHIS.. The safety profile of any product continues to be closely monitored by the FDA and other foreign regulatory authorities after approval.  Regulations continue to apply after product approval, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, finishing, filling, labeling, advertising, promotion, risk mitigation, adverse event reporting requirements, and export of biologics. For example, the risk management program established in 2007 upon the FDA's approval of Soliris for the treatment of PNH was replaced with a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) program, approved by the FDA in 2010, and further revised in December 2015 concerning prescribing information regarding the level of fever needed to seek medical attention and reporting adverse events. Future changes to the Soliris REMS could be costly and burdensome to implement.. We are required to report any serious and unexpected adverse experiences and certain quality problems with our products to the FDA, the EMA, and other health agencies. Non-compliance with safety reporting requirements could result in regulatory action that may include civil action or criminal penalties. Regulatory agencies inspect our. 31. pharmacovigilance processes, including our adverse event reporting. If regulatory agencies determine that we or other parties whom we do not control, including clinical trial investigators, have not complied with the applicable reporting or other pharmacovigilance requirements, we may become subject to additional inspections, warning letters or other enforcement actions, including monetary fines, marketing authorization withdrawal and other penalties.. As a condition of approval for marketing our products, governmental authorities may require us to conduct additional studies. In connection with the approval of Soliris in the U.S., EU and Japan, for the treatment of PNH, we agreed to establish a PNH Registry, monitor immunogenicity, monitor compliance with vaccination requirements, and determine the effects of anticoagulant withdrawal among PNH patients receiving eculizumab, and, specifically in Japan, we agreed to conduct a trial in a limited number of Japanese PNH patients to evaluate the safety of a meningococcal vaccine. In connection with the approval of Soliris in the U.S. for the treatment of aHUS, we agreed to establish an aHUS Registry and complete additional human clinical studies in adult and pediatric patients. Furthermore, in connection with the approval of Strensiq in the U.S., we agreed to conduct a prospective observational study in treated patients to assess the long-term safety of Strensiq therapy and to develop complementary assays. Similarly, in connection with the approval of Kanuma in the U.S., we have agreed to conduct a long-term observational study of treated patients, either as a standalone study or as a component of the existing LAL Registry. In the EU, in connection with the grant of authorization for Strensiq, we agreed to conduct a multicenter, randomized, open-label, Phase 2a study of Strensiq in patients with HPP and to extend the studies ENB-008-10 and ENB-009-10 to provide efficacy data in patients 13 to 18 years of age, which we have commenced.. We also agreed to set up an observational, longitudinal, prospective, long-term registry of patients with HPP to collect information on the epidemiology of the disease, including clinical outcomes and quality of life, and to evaluate safety and effectiveness data in patients treated with Strensiq. In the U.S., the FDA can also propose to withdraw approval for a product if it determines that such additional studies are inadequate or if new clinical data or information shows that a product is not safe for use in an approved indication.. Failure to comply with the laws and requirements, including statutes and regulations, administered by the FDA, the EC, the competent authorities of the EU Member States, the MHLW or other agencies, could result in:. • a product recall;. • a product withdrawal;. • significant administrative and judicial sanctions, including, warning letters or untitled letters;. • significant fines and other civil penalties;. • suspension, variation or withdrawal of a previously granted approval for Soliris;. • interruption of production;. • operating restrictions, such as a shutdown of production facilities or production lines, or new manufacturing requirements;. • suspension of ongoing clinical trials;. • delays in approving or refusal to approve our products including pending BLAs or BLA supplements for our products or a facility that manufactures our products;. • seizing or detaining product;. • requiring us or our partners to enter into a consent decree, which can include imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance;. • injunctions; and/or. • criminal prosecution.. If the use of our products harms people, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted and we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims.. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of drugs for use in humans exposes us to product liability risks. Side effects and other problems from using our products could (1) lessen the frequency with which physicians decide to prescribe our products, (2) encourage physicians to stop prescribing our products to their patients who previously had been prescribed our products, (3) cause serious adverse events and give rise to product liability claims against us, and (4) result in our need to withdraw or recall our products from the marketplace. Some of these risks are unknown at this time.. Our products and our product candidates treat patients with rare diseases. We generally test our products in only a small number of patients. For example, the FDA marketing approval for the treatment of patients with aHUS was based on two prospective studies in a total of 37 adult and adolescent patients, together with a retrospective study that included 19 pediatric patients. As more patients use our products, including more children and adolescents, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant. Previously unknown risks and adverse effects may. 32. also be discovered in connection with unapproved uses of our products, which may include administration of our products under acute emergency conditions, such as the Enterohemorrhagic E. coli health crisis in Europe, primarily Germany, which began in May 2011. We do not promote, or in any way support or encourage the promotion of our products for unapproved uses in violation of applicable law, but physicians are permitted to use products for unapproved purposes and we are aware of such uses of Soliris. In addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study Soliris in diseases other than PNH, aHUS and gMG in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. In the event of any new risks or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for approved indications, or as our products are studied in or used by patients for other indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials and safety studies, make changes in labeling, reformulate our products or make changes and obtain new approvals for our and our suppliers' manufacturing facilities. We may also experience a significant drop in potential sales, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of our products in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. Any of these results could decrease or prevent any sales or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products.. We may be sued by people who use our products, whether as a prescribed therapy, during a clinical trial, during an investigator initiated study, or otherwise. Many patients who use our products are already very ill. Any informed consents or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our trials or use our products may not protect us from liability or litigation. Our product liability insurance may not cover all potential types of liabilities or may not cover certain liabilities completely.  Moreover, we may not be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. In addition, negative publicity relating to the use of our products or a product candidate, or to a product liability claim, may make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to market and sell. As a result of these factors, a product liability claim, even if successfully defended, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Patients who use our products already often have severe and advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre-existing and potentially life-threatening health risks. During the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may or may not be related to our products. Some patients treated with our products, including patients who have participated in our clinical trials, have died or suffered. potentially life-threatening diseases either during or after ending their treatments. Patients who delay or miss a dose or discontinue treatment may also experience complications, including death. Such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market our products, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. Even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products, the investigation into the circumstance may be time consuming or inconclusive. These investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, delay our regulatory approval process in other countries, or impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals that our products receive or maintain.. For example, use of C5 Inhibitors, such as Soliris, is associated with an increased risk for certain types of infection, including meningococcal infection. Under controlled settings, patients in our eculizumab trials all receive vaccination against meningococcal infection prior to first administration of Soliris and patients who are prescribed Soliris in most countries are required by prescribing guidelines to be vaccinated prior to receiving their first dose. A physician may not have the opportunity to timely vaccinate a patient in the event of an acute emergency episode, such as in a patient presenting with aHUS or during the health crisis that began in May 2011 in Europe, principally in Germany, due to the epidemic of infections from Enterohemorrhagic E. coli. Vaccination does not, however, eliminate all risk of meningococcal infection. Additionally, in some countries there may not be any vaccine approved for general use or approved for use in infants and children. Some patients treated with Soliris who had been vaccinated have nonetheless experienced meningococcal infection, including patients who have suffered serious illness or death. Each such incident is required to be reported to appropriate regulatory agencies in accordance with relevant regulations.. Clinical evaluations of outcomes in the post-marketing setting are required to be reported to appropriate regulatory agencies in accordance with relevant regulations. Determination of significant complications associated with the delay or discontinuation of our products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our products.. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully commercialize our products.. We are marketing and selling our products ourselves in the U.S., Europe, Japan and several other. 33. territories.  Strensiq and Kanuma were approved in 2015, are in the early stages of commercial launch and are the second and third new product launches in Alexion's history. Soliris for the treatment of gMG was approved in 2017. If we are unable to establish and/or expand our capabilities to sell, market and distribute our products, either through our own capabilities or by entering into agreements with others, or to maintain such capabilities in countries where we have already commenced commercial sales, we will not be able to successfully sell our products. In that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish and maintain our own capabilities or enter into and maintain any marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need to support our objectives, or enter into marketing and distribution agreements with third parties on acceptable terms, we may not do so in an efficient manner or on a timely basis. We may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell our products. Establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are competitive, expensive and time-consuming. Our expenses associated with building up and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities around the world may be disproportionate compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in commercializing any of our products.. If we fail to comply with laws or regulations, we may be subject to investigations and civil or criminal penalties and our business could be adversely affected.. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to healthcare \"fraud and abuse\" laws, such as the FCA, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, and other related federal and state laws and regulations. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind to induce, or reward the purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. Liability may be established without a person or entity having actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it. A conviction for violation of the Anti-kickback Statute requires mandatory exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. The majority of states also have statutes similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and false claims laws. that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. We seek to comply with the anti-kickback laws and with the available statutory exemptions and safe harbors.  However, our practices may not in all cases fit within the safe harbors, and our practices may therefore be subject to scrutiny on a case-by-case basis. The FCA prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment of government funds, or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim. Pharmaceutical companies have been investigated and have reached substantial financial settlements with the Federal government under the FCA for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; providing consulting fees and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe products; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not approved, or \"off-label\" uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program. We seek to comply with the FCA laws, but we cannot assure that our compliance program, policies and procedures will always protect Alexion from acts committed by its employees or third-party distributors or service providers. Other related federal and state laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate include, among others, the federal False Statements Statute, the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, HIPAA, the federal Open Payments program, state anti-kickback and false claims acts, and state and local disclosure requirements and marketing restrictions.  Additional information about the scope of these requirements is offered in the \"Fraud and Abuse\" section.. Violations of U.S. federal and state fraud and abuse laws may result in criminal, civil and administrative sanctions, including fines, damages, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).  Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. Although physicians in the U.S. are permitted to, based on their medical judgment, prescribe products for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. In the U.S., we market our products for their approved uses. Although we believe our marketing materials and training programs for physicians do not constitute. 34. improper promotion, the FDA, the U.S. Justice Department, or other federal or state government agencies may disagree. If the FDA or other government agencies determine that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute improper promotion of any of our products, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal or state enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false or fraudulent claims for payment of government funds.. The EU and EU Member States impose similar strict restrictions on the promotion and marketing of drug products. The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the EU and in other territories. The promotion of medicinal products that are not subject to a marketing authorization is also prohibited in the EU. Violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the EU and in other territories could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment.. We are subject to FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other anti-corruption laws and regulations that generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials and/or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business and we operate in countries that are recognized as having a greater potential for governmental and commercial corruption. We cannot assure that our compliance program, policies and procedures will always protect Alexion from acts committed by its employees or third-party distributors or service providers.. In May 2015, we received a subpoena in connection with an investigation by the Enforcement Division of the SEC requesting information related to our grant-making activities and compliance with the FCPA in various countries. The SEC also seeks information related to Alexion's recalls of specific lots of Soliris and related securities disclosures. In addition, in October 2015, Alexion received a request from the DOJ for the voluntary production of documents and other information pertaining to Alexion's compliance with the FCPA, and in December 2016, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting documents relating generally to our support of 501(c)(3) organizations that provide financial assistance to Medicare patients, Alexion's provision of free drug to Medicare patients and. Alexion's related compliance policies and training materials. We understand that the U.S. Attorney's Office is coordinating its inquiry with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. In May 2017, Brazilian authorities seized records and data from our Sao Paulo, Brazil offices as part of an investigation being conducted into Alexion's Brazilian operations. Alexion is cooperating with these investigations. At this time, Alexion is unable to predict the duration, scope or outcome of these investigations.. Any determination that our operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with existing U.S. or foreign laws or regulations, including by the ongoing investigations of our compliance with the FCPA, Medicare patient assistance rules, regulations in Brazil, and other matters, could result in the imposition of a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions against Alexion and certain of our directors, officers and/or employees, including injunctive relief, disgorgement, substantial fines or penalties, imprisonment, and other legal or equitable sanctions, including exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid, and other governmental healthcare programs. Additionally, remediation of any such findings could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and we could experience interruptions of business, harm to our reputation, debarment from government contracts, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationships, and necessary licenses and permits could be terminated. Other internal or government investigations or legal or regulatory proceedings, including lawsuits brought by private litigants, may also follow as a consequence. Cooperating with and responding to requests for information in connection with these ongoing investigations, as well as responding to any future U.S. or foreign governmental investigation or whistleblower lawsuit, could result in substantial expenses, and could divert management's attention from other business concerns and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and growth prospects.. Completion of preclinical studies or clinical trials does not guarantee advancement to the next phase of development.. Completion of preclinical studies or clinical trials does not guarantee that we will initiate additional studies or trials for our product candidates, that if further studies or trials are initiated what the scope and phase of the trial will be or that they will be completed, or that if these further studies or trials are completed, that the design or results will provide a sufficient basis to apply for or receive regulatory approvals or to commercialize products. Results of clinical trials could be inconclusive, requiring additional or repeat trials. Data obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials are subject to. 35. varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. If the design or results achieved in our clinical trials are insufficient to proceed to further trials or to regulatory approval of our product candidates, our company could be materially adversely affected. Failure of a clinical trial to achieve its pre-specified primary endpoint generally increases the likelihood that additional studies or trials will be required if we determine to continue development of the product candidate, reduces the likelihood of timely development of and regulatory approval to market the product candidate, and may decrease the chances for successfully achieving the primary endpoint in scientifically similar indications.. Our clinical studies may be costly and lengthy, and there are many reasons why drug testing could be delayed or terminated.. For human trials, patients must be recruited and each product candidate must be tested at various doses and formulations for each clinical indication. In addition, to ensure safety and effectiveness, the effect of drugs often must be studied over a long period of time, especially for the chronic diseases that we are studying. Many of our programs focus on diseases with small patient populations making patient enrollment difficult. Insufficient patient enrollment in our clinical trials could delay or cause us to abandon a product development program. We may decide to abandon development of a product candidate or a study at any time due to unfavorable results or other reasons. We may have to spend considerable resources repeating clinical trials or conducting additional trials, either of which would increase costs and delay any revenue from those product candidates, if any.  We may open clinical sites and enroll patients in countries where we have little experience. We rely on a small number of clinical research organizations to carry out our clinical trial related activities, and one CRO is responsible for many of our studies. We rely on such parties to accurately report their results. Our reliance on CROs may impact our ability to control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials.. Additional factors that can cause delay, impairment or termination of our clinical trials or our product development efforts include:. • delay or failure in obtaining institutional review board (IRB), approval or the approval of other reviewing entities to conduct a clinical trial at each site;. • delay or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations (CROs), and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary. significantly among different CROs and trial sites;. • withdrawal of clinical trial sites from our clinical trials as a result of changing standards of care or the ineligibility of a site to participate in our clinical trials;. • clinical sites and investigators deviating from trial protocol, failing to conduct the trial in accordance with regulatory requirements, or dropping out of a trial;. • slow patient enrollment, including, for example, due to the rarity of the disease being studied;. • delay or failure in having patients complete a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. • long treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness;. • lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate;. • disruption of operations at the clinical trial sites;. • adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients, and the threat of legal claims and litigation alleging injuries;. • failure of patients taking the placebo to continue to participate in our clinical trials;. • insufficient clinical trial data to support effectiveness of the product candidates;. • lack of effectiveness or safety of the product candidate being tested;. • lack of sufficient funds;. • inability to meet required specifications or to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for development or commercialization activities in a timely and cost-efficient manner;. • decisions by regulatory authorities, the IRB, ethics committee, or us, or recommendation by a data safety monitoring board, to suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time for safety issues or for any other reason;. • failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for the product candidate or the approvals for the facilities in which such product candidate is manufactured; and. • decisions by competent authorities, IRBs or ethics committees to demand variations in protocols or conduct of clinical trials.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. If we cannot obtain new patents, maintain our existing patents and protect the confidentiality and proprietary nature of our trade secrets and other intellectual property, our business and competitive position will be harmed.. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and regulatory protections. 36. for our products and investigational compounds, to preserve our trade secrets and other proprietary rights, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, and to prevent third parties from circumventing our rights. Due to the time and expense of bringing new products through development and regulatory approval to the marketplace, there is particular importance in obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes.. We have and may in the future obtain patents or the right to practice patents through ownership or license. Our patent applications may not result in the issue of patents in the U.S. or other countries. Our patents may not afford adequate protection for our products. Third parties may challenge our patents, and have challenged our patents in the past. If any of our patents are narrowed, invalidated or become unenforceable, competitors may develop and market products similar to ours that do not conflict with or infringe our patents rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may also finance and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations, hospitals, universities or other educational or research institutions. Such research partners may be unwilling to grant us exclusive rights to technology or products developed through such collaborations. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or products developed in collaboration with other parties. Our products and product candidates are expensive and time-consuming to test and develop. Even if we obtain and maintain patents, our business may be significantly harmed if the patents are not broad enough to protect our products from copycat products.. Significant legal questions exist concerning the extent and scope of patent protection for biopharmaceutical products and processes in the U.S. and elsewhere. Accordingly, there is no certainty that patent applications owned or licensed by us will issue as patents, or that our issued patents will afford meaningful protection against competitors. Once issued, patents are subject to challenge through both administrative and judicial proceedings in the U.S. and other countries. Such proceedings include re-examinations, inter partes reviews, post-grant reviews and interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as opposition proceedings before the European Patent Office and other non-U.S. patent offices. Litigation may be required to enforce, defend or obtain our patent and other intellectual property rights. Any administrative proceeding or litigation could require a significant commitment of our resources and, depending on outcome, could adversely affect the scope, validity or enforceability of certain of our patent or other proprietary rights.. In addition, our business requires using sensitive technology, techniques and proprietary compounds that we protect as trade secrets. However, we may also rely heavily on collaboration with, or discuss the potential for collaboration with, suppliers, outside scientists and other biopharmaceutical companies. Collaboration and discussion of potential collaboration present a strong risk of exposing our trade secrets. If our trade secrets were exposed, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business prospects.. If we are found to be infringing on patents owned by others, we may be forced to pay damages to the patent owner and/or obtain a license to continue the manufacture, sale or development of our products. If we cannot obtain a license, we may be prevented from the manufacture, sale or development of our products, which would adversely affect our business.. Parts of our technology, techniques, proprietary compounds and potential product candidates, including those which are or may be in-licensed, may be found to infringe patents owned by or granted to others. We previously reported that certain third parties filed civil lawsuits against us claiming infringement of their intellectual property rights. Each of those matters was resolved. However, additional third parties may claim that the manufacture, use or sale of our products or product candidates infringes patents owned or granted to such third parties. We have in the past received, and may in the future receive, notices from third parties claiming that their patents may be infringed by the development, manufacture or sale of our products or product candidates. We are aware of patents owned by third parties that might be claimed by such third parties to be infringed by the development and commercialization of our products or investigational compounds. In respect to some of these patents, we have obtained licenses, or expect to obtain licenses. However, with regard to other patents, we have determined in our judgment that:. <U+25AA> our products and investigational compounds do not infringe the patents;. <U+25AA> the patents are not valid or enforceable; and/or. <U+25AA> we have identified and are testing various alternatives that should not infringe the patents and which should permit continued development and commercialization of our products and investigational compounds.. Any holder of these patents or other patents covering similar technology could sue us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling or developing our products. Legal disputes can be costly and time consuming to defend. If we cannot successfully defend against any future actions or conflicts, if they arise, we may incur substantial legal. 37. costs and may be liable for damages, be required to obtain costly licenses or need to stop manufacturing, using or selling our products, which would adversely affect our business. We may seek to obtain a license prior to or during legal actions in order to reduce further costs and the risk of a court determination that our product infringes the third party's patents. A required license may be costly or may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A costly license, or inability to obtain a necessary license, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in a patent infringement action or that we would be able to obtain a license to any third-party patent on commercially reasonable terms or any terms at all; successfully develop non-infringing alternatives on a timely basis; or license alternative non-infringing technology, if any exists, on commercially reasonable terms. Any impediment to our ability to manufacture, use or sell approved forms of our products or our product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. It is possible that we could lose market exclusivity for a product earlier than expected, which would harm our competitive position.. In our industry, much of an innovative product's commercial value is realized while it has market exclusivity. When market exclusivity expires and biosimilar or generic versions of the product are approved and marketed, there can be substantial decline in the innovative product's sales.. Market exclusivity for our products is based upon patent rights and certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of our product patent rights vary from country to country and is dependent on the availability of meaningful legal remedies in each country. The failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use, or loss of such rights, could be material to our business. In some countries, patent protections for our products may not exist because certain countries did not historically offer the right to obtain specific types of patents or we did not file patents in those markets. Also, the patent environment is unpredictable and the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once regulatory exclusivity periods expire, biosimilar or generic versions of the product can be approved and marketed. Even prior to the expiration of regulatory exclusivity, a competitor could seek to obtain marketing approval by submitting its own clinical trial data.. The market exclusivity of our products may be impacted by competitive products that are either innovative or biosimilar or generic copies. In our. industry, the potential for biosimilar challenges has been an increasing risk to product market exclusivity. U.S. law includes an approval pathway for biosimilar versions of innovative biological products. Under the pathway, the FDA may approve products that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative biologics on the basis of less extensive data than is required for a full biologic license application. After an innovator has marketed its product for four years, other manufacturers may apply for approval of a biosimilar version of the innovator product. However, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the FDA may not actually approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative product received its approval. The law also provides a mechanism for innovators to enforce their patents that protect their products and for biosimilar applicants to challenge the patents. Such litigation may begin as early as four years after the innovative biological product is first approved by the FDA. Pathways for biosimilar products also exist in many other markets, including Europe and Japan.. Risks Related to Our Operations. We may not accurately forecast demand for our products, including our new products, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate, and we cannot guarantee that we will achieve our financial goals, including our ability to maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future.. We have maintained profitability on a quarterly basis since the quarter ended June 30, 2008 and on an annual basis beginning with the year ended December 31, 2008. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and net income (loss) may fluctuate, even significantly, due to the risks described in these \"Risk Factors\" as well as the timing of charges and expenses that we may take. We believe that we formulate our annual operating budgets with reasonable assumptions and targets, however we may not generate sufficient revenues or control expenses to achieve our financial goals, including continued profitability.  We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. You should not consider our financial performance, including our revenue growth, in recent periods as indicative of our future performance. We may not accurately forecast demand for our products, especially Strensiq and Kanuma and Soliris for the treatment of gMG. Strensiq and Kanuma are in the early stages of commercial launch having each received marketing approval in 2015, and both products treat rare diseases for which there was no existing therapy in a new therapeutic area. Soliris for the treatment of gMG was approved in 2017. Product demand is dependent on a number of factors. Our investors may have widely varying expectations that. 38. may be materially higher or lower than actual revenues and if our revenues are different from these expectations, our stock price may experience significant volatility. Our revenues are also subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations and our results of operations could be adversely affected due to unfavorable foreign exchange rates. Although we use derivative instruments to manage foreign currency risk, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful.. We have significant debt service obligations as a result of the debt we incurred to finance the acquisition of Synageva.  Changes in interest rates related to this debt could significantly increase our annual interest expense. As we advance our pipeline and continue to launch our second and third products and our third indication for Soliris worldwide, we will have substantial expenses as we continue our research and development efforts, continue to conduct clinical trials and continue to develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities worldwide, some of which could be delayed, scaled-back or eliminated to achieve our financial objectives.. We have also recorded, or may be required to record, charges that include inventory write-downs for failed quality specifications or recalls, impairments with respect to investments, fixed assets and long-lived assets, outcomes of litigation and other legal or administrative proceedings, regulatory matters and tax matters, and payments in connection with acquisitions and other business development activities, such as milestone payments.. Other than Soliris for the treatment of gMG, each of our products is currently the only approved drug for the disease(s) the product treats.  If a competitive product is approved for sale, including a biosimilar or generic product, our market share and our revenues could decline, particularly if the competitive product is perceived to be more effective or is less expensive than our product.. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Soliris is currently the only approved therapy for the treatment of PNH and aHUS, and is the only approved complement inhibition therapy for the treatment of AChR antibody-positive gMG. We are in advanced clinical studies of Soliris for the treatment of NMOD, and there are currently no approved drugs for this indication. Strensiq is currently the only product approved to treat HPP and Kanuma is the only product approved to treat LAL-D. In the future, Soliris may compete with new drugs currently in development, and Strensiq and Kanuma may also experience competition. Other companies have initiated clinical studies for the treatment of PNH, aHUS, MG and NMOSD, and we are aware of companies that are. planning to initiate studies for diseases that we are also targeting. Our revenues could be negatively affected if patients or potential patients enroll in our clinical trials or clinical trials of other companies with respect to diseases that we also target with approved therapies.. Pharmaceutical companies have publicly announced intentions to establish or develop rare disease programs and these companies may introduce products that are competitive with ours. These and other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us, may commercialize products that are cheaper, more effective, safer, or easier to administer than our products. In the future, our products may also compete with biosimilars or generics. We experience competition in drug development from universities and other research institutions, and pharmaceutical companies compete with us to attract universities and academic research institutions as drug development partners, including for licensing their proprietary technology. If our competitors successfully enter into such arrangements with academic institutions, we will be precluded from pursuing those unique opportunities and may not be able to find equivalent opportunities elsewhere.. If a company announces successful clinical trial results for a product that may be competitive with one of our products or product candidates, receives marketing approval of a competitive product, or gets to the market before we do with a competitive product, our business may be harmed or our stock price may decline.. If we fail to achieve the expected financial and operating benefits of our corporate restructuring, our business and financial results may be harmed.. We have undertook broad corporate restructuring activities in 2017 to re-align our global organization with the Company's re-focused strategy, reduce costs, and realize operational efficiencies. These activities, including a work force reduction of more than 20.0% and plans to close certain operational sites, subject the Company to many risks, including loss of business continuity, unanticipated costs, and higher than usual employee turnover. The expected cost savings and operational efficiencies from the restructuring activities are based on assumptions and expectations, which are reasonable in our judgment but may not be achieved due to unforeseen difficulties and challenges that are beyond our control. If these assumptions and expectations are incorrect or if we experience delays or unforeseen events in realizing the benefits of the restructuring activities, our business operations and financial results may be harmed.. 39. As we implement the restructuring, we must execute on our re-focused strategy, including growing and maximizing our rare disease business and pursuing disciplined business development to expand our pipeline. If we are unable to effectively execute with fewer human resources and/or attract, retain or motivate key employees, our business may be adversely affected.. If we fail to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully develop, manufacture or commercialize our products or products candidates.. The success of our business is dependent in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain our senior management, and other highly qualified personnel in our scientific, clinical, manufacturing and commercial organizations. There is intense competition in the biopharmaceutical industry for these types of personnel. In March 2017, our Board appointed a new CEO and we have experienced other recent management changes. In addition, in 2017, we announced a relocation of the Company's global headquarters from New Haven, CT to Boston, MA in 2018 and we began a company-wide restructuring to re-align our global organization with the Company's re-focused strategy. We will need to fill open positions resulting from employees who do not relocate to Boston. The relocation and restructuring have the potential to adversely impact our ability to recruit and/or retain key employees as well as to disrupt our business operations, financial conditions, programs, plans and strategies.. Our business is specialized and global and we must attract and retain highly qualified individuals across many geographies. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the highly qualified personnel necessary for developing, manufacturing and commercializing our products and product candidates. If we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, or if our recruitment efforts take longer than anticipated, our business may be harmed.. If we fail to satisfy our debt service obligations or obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we may be unable to commercialize our products or continue or complete our product development.. In June 2015, we acquired Synageva and used a substantial portion of our cash on hand and incurred significant debt under the terms of a senior secured credit facility to finance the acquisition. In addition, we have substantial contingent liabilities, including milestone and royalty obligations under earlier acquisitions and strategic transactions. Our increased indebtedness, including increased interest expense, together with our significant contingent liabilities, could, among other things:. • make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns and competitive pressures;. • make it difficult for us to make payments on the credit facilities and require us to use cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts, research and development and mergers and acquisitions;. • limit our ability to incur additional debt or access the capital markets; and. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business.. The Credit Agreement (as defined below) requires us to comply with certain financial covenants on a quarterly basis and includes negative covenants, subject to exceptions, restricting or limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, and engage in certain investment, acquisition and disposition transactions. If an event of default occurs, the interest rate would increase and the administrative agent would be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the Credit Agreement.. Our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Credit Agreement and meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.. We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us.. We may need to raise additional capital to supplement our existing funds and cash generated from operations for working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements, and other business activities. Funding needs may shift and the amount of capital we may need depends on many factors, including, the cost of any acquisition or any new collaborative, licensing or other commercial relationships that we may establish, the time and cost necessary to build our manufacturing facilities or enhance our manufacturing operations, the cost of obtaining and maintaining the necessary regulatory approvals for our manufacturing facilities, and the progress, timing and scope of our preclinical studies and clinical trials. The capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption. We may not receive additional funding when we need it or funding may only be available on unfavorable terms. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to delay, scale-back or eliminate certain research, development, manufacturing or commercial activities.. 40. Our business involves environmental risks and potential exposure to environmental liabilities.. As a biopharmaceutical company, our business involves the use of certain hazardous materials in our research, development, manufacturing, and other activities. We and our third party providers are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning the handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, such as medical and biological wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment, such as air, soils and water sources. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment and a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating its property or locations, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination. If an accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for remediation obligations, damages and fines that could exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources. Such obligations and liabilities, which to date have not been material, could have a material impact on our business and financial condition. Additionally, the cost of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations may increase in the future, and we may be required dedicate more resources to comply with such developments or purchase supplemental insurance coverage.. We are seeking to expand our business through strategic initiatives.  Our efforts to identify opportunities or complete transactions that satisfy our strategic criteria may not be successful, and we not realize the anticipated benefits of any completed acquisition or other strategic transaction.. Our business strategy includes expanding our products and capabilities. We regularly evaluate potential merger, acquisition, partnering and in-license opportunities that we expect will expand our pipeline or product offerings, and enhance our research platforms. Acquisitions of new businesses or products and in-licensing of new products may involve numerous risks, including:. • substantial cash expenditures;. • potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities;. • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition;. • difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies;. • failure of any acquired businesses or products or in-licensed products to achieve. the scientific, medical, commercial or other results anticipated;. • diverting our management's attention away from other business concerns;. • the potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies; and. • risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience.. A substantial portion of our strategic efforts are focused on opportunities for rare disorders and life-saving therapies, but the availability of such opportunities is limited. We may not be able to identify opportunities that satisfy our strategic criteria or are acceptable to us or our stockholders. Several companies have publicly announced intentions to establish or develop rare disease programs and we may compete with these companies for the same opportunities. For these and other reasons, we may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates or approved products on terms that we or our stockholders find acceptable, or at all.. Even if we are able to successfully identify and complete acquisitions and other strategic transactions, we may not be able to integrate them or take full advantage of them. An acquisition or other strategic transaction may not result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. We may also incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business or an acquired or in-licensed product.. To effectively manage our current and future potential growth, we must continue to effectively enhance and develop our global employee base, and our operational and financial processes. Supporting our growth strategy will require significant capital expenditures and management resources, including investments in research, development, sales and marketing, manufacturing and other areas of our operations. The development or expansion of our business, any acquired business or any acquired or in-licensed products may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our capital stock, which could dilute current stockholders' ownership interest in our company, or securities convertible into our capital stock, which could dilute current stockholders' ownership interest in our company upon conversion.. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other intangible assets.. As of December 31, 2017, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $8,991.8.  As required by generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if there are indicators of impairment. Impairment of intangible assets may be. 41. triggered by developments both within and outside our control. Deteriorating economic conditions, technological changes, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, intensified competition, divestitures, market capitalization declines and other factors may impair our goodwill and other intangible assets. Any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations in the periods in which an impairment is recognized.. As part of our standard quarterly procedures, we reviewed the Kanuma asset as of December 31, 2017 and determined that there were no indicators of impairment.  We will continue to review the related valuation and accounting of this asset in future quarters as new information becomes available to us. Changes to assumptions used in our net cash flow projections may result in impairment charges in subsequent periods.  The net book value of the Kanuma intangible asset as of December 31, 2017 is $3,512.8.. Our business could be affected by litigation, government investigations and enforcement actions.. We operate in many jurisdictions in a highly regulated industry and we could be subject to litigation, government investigation and enforcement actions on a variety of matters in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions, including, without limitation, intellectual property, regulatory, product liability, environmental, whistleblower, Qui Tam, false claims, privacy, anti-kickback, anti-bribery, securities, commercial, employment, and other claims and legal proceedings which may arise from conducting our business. As previously disclosed, in May 2015, we received a subpoena in connection with an investigation by the Enforcement Division of the SEC requesting information related to our grant-making activities and compliance with the FCPA in various countries. The SEC also seeks information related to Alexion's recalls of specific lots of Soliris and related securities disclosures. In October 2015, Alexion received a request from the DOJ for the voluntary production of documents and other information pertaining to Alexion's compliance with the FCPA. Any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with existing laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines, civil and criminal penalties, equitable remedies, including disgorgement, injunctive relief, and/or other sanctions against us, and remediation of any such findings could have an adverse effect on our business operations. In addition, in December 2016, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting documents relating generally to our support of 501(c)(3) organizations that provide financial assistance to Medicare patients,. Alexion's provision of free drug to Medicare patients and Alexion's related compliance policies and training materials. Further, securities fraud class action litigation has been filed against the Company, and certain current and former executives and Board members, and we could also become subject to legal proceedings and government investigations relating to matters addressed in the Audit Committee Investigation. In May 2017, Brazilian authorities seized records and data from our Sao Paulo, Brazil offices as part of an investigation being conducted into Alexion's Brazilian operations. Legal proceedings, government investigations, including the SEC and DOJ investigations, and enforcement actions can be expensive and time consuming. An adverse outcome could result in significant damages awards, fines, penalties, exclusion from the federal healthcare programs, healthcare debarment, injunctive relief, product recalls, reputational damage and modifications of our business practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The intended efficiency of our corporate structure depends on the application of the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate and we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities or our effective tax rate could change, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.. As a company with international operations, we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities.  Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome with respect to the taxes we owe may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements. If the IRS, or other taxing authority, disagrees with the positions we take, we could have additional tax liability, and this could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and regulations, changes in interpretations of tax laws, including pending tax law changes, changes in our manufacturing activities and changes in our future levels of research and development spending.. We have designed our corporate structure, the manner in which we develop and use our intellectual property, and our intercompany transactions between our affiliates in a way that is intended to enhance our operational and financial efficiency and increase our overall profitability. The application of the tax laws and regulations of various countries in which we operate. 42. and to our global operations is subject to interpretation. We also must operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure to realize such efficiencies. The tax authorities of the countries in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or for transfer pricing. If tax authorities determine that the manner in which we operate results in our business not achieving the intended tax consequences, our effective tax rate could increase and harm our financial position and results of operations.. In addition, certain governments are considering and may adopt tax reform measures that significantly increase our worldwide tax liabilities. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and other government bodies have focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations, including, in the area of \"base erosion and profit shifting,\" where payments are made from affiliates in jurisdictions with high tax rates to affiliates in jurisdictions with lower tax rates. It is possible that these reform measures could increase our effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations over the next several years.. Our sales and operations are subject to a variety of risks relating to the conduct and expansion of our international business.. We continue to increase our international presence, including in emerging markets. Our operations in foreign countries subject us to a variety of risks, including:. • difficulties or the inability to obtain necessary foreign regulatory or reimbursement approvals of our products in a timely manner;. • political or economic determinations that adversely impact pricing or reimbursement policies;. • economic problems or political instability;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • difficulties or inability to obtain financing in markets;. • unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;. • difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights;. • compliance with complex import and export control laws;. • trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities;. • compliance with tax, employment and labor laws;. • costs and difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified managers and employees to manage and operate the business in local jurisdictions;. • costs and difficulties in managing and monitoring international operations; and. • longer payment cycles.. Additionally, our business and marketing methods are subject to the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate, which may differ significantly from country to country and may conflict with U.S. laws and regulations. The FCPA and anti-bribery laws and regulations are extensive and far-reaching, and we must maintain accurate records and control over the activities of our distributors and third party service providers in countries where we operate. We have policies and procedures designed to help ensure that we and our representatives, including our employees, comply with such laws, however we cannot guarantee that these policies and procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other anti-bribery laws for actions taken by our representatives. Any determination that our operation or activities are not in compliance with existing laws or regulations, including the FCPA, could result in the imposition of fines, civil and criminal penalties, equitable remedies, including disgorgement, injunctive relief, and/or other sanctions against us, and remediation of such findings could have an adverse effect on our business operations.  Failure to comply with the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate could materially harm our business.. Currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our revenue growth, increase our costs and negatively affect our profitability.. We conduct a substantial portion of our business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results. The exposures result from portions of our revenues, as well as the related receivables, and expenses that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Swiss Franc, and Russian Ruble. As the U.S. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currencies decrease. When the U.S. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative value of such sales increase. We manage our foreign currency transaction risk within specified guidelines through the use of derivatives. All of our derivative instruments are utilized for risk management purposes, and we do not use derivatives for speculative trading purposes. We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge exposures resulting from portions of our forecasted revenues, including intercompany revenues that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The purpose of the hedges of revenue is to reduce the volatility of exchange rate fluctuations on. 43. our operating results and to increase the visibility of the foreign exchange impact on forecasted revenues. Further, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts, with durations of approximately 30 days, designed to limit the balance sheet exposure of monetary assets and liabilities. We enter into these hedges to reduce the impact of fluctuating exchange rates on our operating results. Gains and losses on these hedge transactions are designed to offset gains and losses on underlying balance sheet exposures. While we attempt to hedge certain currency risks, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have, in the past, caused foreign currency transaction gains and losses and have also impacted the amounts of revenues and expenses calculated in U.S. dollars and will do so in the future.  Likewise, past currency fluctuations have at times resulted in foreign currency transaction gains, and there can be no assurance that these gains can be reproduced. Any significant foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in healthcare laws and implementing regulations, as well as changes in healthcare policy, may affect coverage and reimbursement of our products in ways that we cannot currently predict and these changes could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. In the U.S., there have been a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives focused on containing the cost of healthcare. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) was enacted in the U.S. in March 2010. This law substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers in the U.S., and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. PPACA contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, rules regarding prescription drug benefits under health insurance exchanges, expansion of the 340B program, expansion of state Medicaid programs, fraud and abuse enforcement and rules governing the approval of biosimilar products. These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. In early 2016, CMS issued final regulations to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program under PPACA. These regulations became effective on April 1, 2016. Moreover, in the future, Congress could enact legislation that further increases Medicaid drug rebates or other costs and. charges associated with participating in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. The issuance of regulations and coverage expansion by various governmental agencies relating to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program has and will continue to increase our costs and the complexity of compliance, has been and will be time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Certain legislative changes to and regulatory changes under PPACA have occurred in the 115th U.S. Congress and under the Trump Administration. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017, eliminated the shared responsibility payment for individuals who fail to maintain minimum essential coverage under section 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code, commonly referred to as the individual mandate, beginning in 2019. Additional legislative changes to and regulatory changes under PPACA remain possible.. Governments in countries where we operate have adopted or have shown significant interest in pursuing legislative initiatives to reduce costs of healthcare. We expect that the implementation of current laws and policies, the amendment of those laws and policies in the future, as well as the adoption of new laws and policies, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to maintain or increase our product sales or successfully commercialize our product candidates, or could limit or eliminate our future spending on development projects. In many cases, these government initiatives, even if enacted into law, are subject to future rulemaking by regulatory agencies. Although we have evaluated these government initiatives and the impact on our business, we cannot know with certainty whether any such law, rule or regulation will adversely affect coverage and reimbursement of our products, or to what extent, until such laws, rules and regulations are promulgated, implemented and enforced, which could sometimes take many years. The announcement or adoption of regulatory or legislative proposals could delay or prevent our entry into new markets, affect our reimbursement or sales in the markets where we are already selling our products and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, Medicare, or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We participate in and have certain price reporting obligations to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and we have obligations to report the average sales price. 44. under the Medicare program. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we are required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for quantities of our products that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our products under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Those rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS. These data include the average manufacturer price and, in the case of innovator products, the best price for each drug. Any failure to comply with these price reporting and rebate payment obligations could negatively impact our financial results.. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program also participate in the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer's drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B \"ceiling price\" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. These 340B covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients.  PPACA expanded the 340B program to include additional types of covered entities but exempts \"orphan drugs\"-those designated under section 526 of the FDCA, such as our products-from the ceiling price requirements for these newly-eligible entities. The 340B ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula, which is based on the average manufacturer price and rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, and in general, products subject to Medicaid price reporting and rebate liability are also subject to the 340B ceiling price calculation and discount requirement. Any changes to the definition of average manufacturer price and the Medicaid rebate amount also could affect our 340B ceiling price calculation for our products and could negatively impact our results of operations.. PPACA obligates the Secretary of the Health and Human Services (HHS) to update the agreement that manufacturers must sign to participate in the 340B pricing program to obligate a manufacturer to offer the 340B price to covered entities if the manufacturer makes the drug available to any other purchaser at any price and to report to the government the ceiling prices for its drugs. The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) recently updated the agreement with participating manufacturers. PPACA also obligates the Secretary of HHS to create regulations and processes to improve the integrity of the 340B program. On January 5, 2017, HRSA issued. a final regulation regarding the calculation of 340B ceiling price and the imposition of civil monetary penalties on manufacturers that knowingly and intentionally overcharge covered entities. The effective date of the regulation has been delayed until July 1, 2018. Implementation of this final rule and the issuance of any other final regulations and guidance could affect our obligations under the 340B pricing program in ways we cannot anticipate. In addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340B pricing program to additional covered entities or would require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340B discounted pricing on drugs used in an inpatient setting.. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. We cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by CMS to be incomplete or incorrect. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. If we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed twelve quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due, and CMS may request or require restatements for earlier periods as well. Such restatements and recalculations increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Price recalculations also may affect the ceiling price at which we are required to offer our products to certain covered entities, such as safety-net providers, under the 340B pricing program.. We are liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data. In addition to retroactive rebates and the potential for 340B program refunds, civil monetary penalties can be applied if we are found to have knowingly submitted any false pricing information to the government, if we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of our average sales price, or if we fail to submit the required pricing data on a timely basis. Such conduct also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which we participate in the Medicaid program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, federal payments may not be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs.. 45. Federal law requires that a company must participate in the VA FSS pricing program to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds. If we overcharge the government in connection with our FSS contract or Section 703 Agreement, whether due to a misstated FCP or otherwise, we are required to refund the difference to the government. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against us under the FCA and other laws and regulations. Unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We may be subject to numerous and varying privacy and security laws, and our failure to comply could result in penalties and reputational damage.. We are subject to laws and regulations covering data privacy and the protection of personal information including health information. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues which may affect our business. In the U.S., numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of personal information. Each of these laws is subject to varying interpretations by courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to penalties or sanctions, including criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA.. Numerous other countries have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information as well. EU Member States and other jurisdictions have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. For example, the EC adopted the EU Data Protection Directive, as implemented into national laws by the EU Member States, which imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze, and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. Data protection authorities from different EU Member States have interpreted the privacy laws differently, which adds to the complexity of processing personal data in the EU, and guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise. revised. Any failure to comply with the rules arising from the EU Data Protection Directive and related national laws of EU Member States could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and adversely impact our operating results.. In May 2016, the EU formally adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, which will apply in all EU Member States on May 25, 2018 and will replace the current EU Data Protection Directive on that date. The regulation introduces new data protection requirements in the EU and substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. It will increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with the new EU data protection rules.. Security breaches, cyber-attacks, or other disruptions could expose us to liability and affect our business and reputation.. We are increasingly dependent on our information technology systems and infrastructure for our business. We collect, store, and transmit sensitive information including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information in connection with business operations. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Some of this information could be an attractive target of criminal attack by third parties with a wide range of motives and expertise, including organized criminal groups, \"hacktivists,\" patient groups, disgruntled current or former employees, and others. Cyber-attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication, and despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to such attacks or may be breached, including due to employee error or malfeasance. We have implemented information security measures to protect patients' personal information against the risk of inappropriate and unauthorized external use and disclosure. However, despite these measures, and due to the ever changing information cyber-threat landscape, we may be subject to data breaches through cyber-attacks. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. If our systems become compromised, we may not promptly discover the intrusion. Like other companies in our industry, we have experienced attacks to our data and systems, including malware and computer viruses. If our systems failed or were breached or disrupted, we could lose product sales, and suffer reputational damage and loss of customer confidence. Such incidents would result in notification obligations to affected individuals and government agencies, legal. 46. claims or proceedings, and liability under federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of personal information. Any one of these events could cause our business to be materially harmed and our results of operations would be adversely impacted.. Negative public opinion and increased regulatory scrutiny of recombinant and transgenic products, genetically modified products, and genetically modified animals generally may damage public perception of our current and future products or adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and obtain regulatory approvals we may seek.. Kanuma is a transgenic product produced in the egg whites of genetically modified chickens who receive copies of the human lysosomal acid lipase gene to produce recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase. The success of Kanuma will depend in part on public attitudes of the use of genetic engineering. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims and perceptions that these types of activities or products are unsafe, and our products may not gain sufficient acceptance by, or fall out of favor with, the public or the medical community. Negative public attitudes to genetic engineering activities in general could result in more restrictive legislation or regulations and could impede our ability to conduct our business, delay preclinical or clinical studies, or otherwise prevent us from commercializing our product.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price is extremely volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has been extremely volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Many factors could have an impact on our stock price, including fluctuations in our or our competitors' operating results, clinical trial results or adverse events associated with our products, product development by us or our competitors, changes in laws, including healthcare, tax or intellectual property laws, intellectual property developments, changes in reimbursement or drug pricing, the existence or outcome of litigation or government proceedings, including the SEC/DOJ investigation, acquisitions or other strategic transactions, and the perceptions of our investors that we are not performing or meeting expectations. The trading price of the common stock of many biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have at times been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies whose stocks were affected.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws and under Delaware law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult and may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management.. Our corporate charter and by-law provisions may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control that might be beneficial to us or our stockholders. Our bylaws provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, the Secretary, or a majority of the Board of Directors, or upon the written request of stockholders who together own of record 25.0% of the outstanding stock of all classes entitled to vote at such meeting. Our bylaws also specify that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the Board of Directors. Our charter does not include a provision for cumulative voting for directors, which may have enabled a minority stockholder holding a sufficient percentage of a class of shares to elect one or more directors. Under our charter, our Board of directors has the authority, without further action by stockholders, to designate up to 5 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future.. Because we are a Delaware corporation, the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Laws, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15.0% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15.0% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner."
