[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The risks and uncertainties discussed below could materially affect our business operations, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and should be carefully considered by stakeholders. The risks and uncertainties in this section are not the only ones we face; additional risks and uncertainties that we are not presently aware of, or that we currently consider immaterial, may also affect our business operations, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with other information set forth in this report and in future reports that we file with the SEC.. Entity-wide Risks. We rely on access to financing sources and capital markets. If we do not have access to capital on acceptable terms or are unable to obtain capital when needed, our ability to execute our business plans, make capital expenditures or pursue other strategic actions that we may otherwise rely on for future growth would be adversely affected.. We rely on access to financing sources and the capital markets, on acceptable terms and at reasonable costs, as sources of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by our cash flows from operations. Market disruptions or a downgrade of our credit ratings may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access and financing costs in the capital markets.  Such disruptions or causes of a downgrade could include but are not limited to: the effects of the TCJA on the Company's cash flow metrics; a loss of, or a reduction in sales to, Large Power Customers if we are unable to offset the related lost margins; weaker operating performance; adverse regulatory outcomes; disproportionate increase in the contribution to net income from our Energy Infrastructure and Related Services businesses as compared to that from our Regulated Operations; deteriorating economic or capital market conditions; or volatility in commodity prices.. If we are not able to access capital on acceptable terms in sufficient amounts and when needed, or at all, the ability to maintain our businesses or to implement our business plans would be adversely affected.. Recent U.S. tax legislation could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted into law. The TCJA has significantly changed the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and the taxation of corporations. The TCJA is unclear in certain respects and will require interpretations and the promulgation of regulations by the Internal Revenue Service, as well as state tax authorities and it could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections. The regulatory treatment of the impacts of the TCJA will be subject to the discretion of the FERC and state regulatory authorities.. On February 6, 2018, Standard & Poor's downgraded its ratings outlook for ALLETE to negative from stable as a result, among other reasons, of the potential negative impact of the TCJA on certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies to rate us. It is unclear when or how the capital markets and the credit rating agencies will ultimately respond. Further, there may be other adverse effects resulting from the TCJA or regulatory agency responses to the TCJA that we have not yet identified. We are still quantifying the impacts of the TCJA on our businesses, and have reflected estimates for the impacts in our Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2017, which may be adjusted in future periods as more information becomes available. The reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate required us to remeasure our existing deferred income tax balances as of the date of enactment, resulting in a non - cash benefit to earnings in our ALLETE Clean Energy and U.S. Water Services segments as well as a non-cash expense at our Corporate and Other businesses. The remeasurement of the existing deferred income tax assets and liabilities for our Regulated Operations segment was recorded as regulatory assets, regulatory liabilities, and a change to our investment in ATC resulting in no material impact on the 2017 results of operations for this segment. The benefits of the TCJA for customers of Minnesota Power and SWL&P are expected to be passed back to those customers over time primarily based upon the normalization provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code over the life of the related property, plant and equipment with the remainder passed back based upon the determinations of regulatory authorities. The decrease in our investment in ATC is expected to be amortized into earnings over time. The final amount and timing over which the benefits of the TCJA will be passed back to customers has not been determined, and therefore, the full cash flow impacts are still uncertain.. ALLETE, Inc. 2017 Form 10-K. 25. Item 1A.  Risk Factors (Continued). Entity-wide Risks (Continued). A deterioration in general economic conditions may have adverse impacts on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. If economic conditions deteriorate on a national or regional level, it may have a negative impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows as well as on our customers. This impact may include volatility and unpredictability in the demand for the products and services offered by our businesses, the loss of existing customers, tempered growth strategies, production cutbacks or customer bankruptcies. An uncertain economy could also adversely affect expenses including pension costs, interest costs, and uncollectible accounts, or lead to reductions in the value of certain real estate and other investments.. We are subject to extensive state and federal legislation and regulation, compliance with which could have an adverse effect on our businesses.. We are subject to, and affected by, extensive state and federal legislation and regulation. If it was determined that our businesses failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or be required to implement additional compliance measures or actions, the cost of which could be material. Adoption of new laws, rules, regulations, principles, or practices by federal and state agencies, or changes to or a failure to comply with current laws, rules, regulations, principles, or practices and their interpretations, could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The inability to attract and retain a qualified workforce including, but not limited to, executive officers, key employees and employees with specialized skills, could have an adverse effect on our operations.. The success of our business heavily depends on the leadership of our executive officers and key employees to implement our business strategy. The inability to maintain a qualified workforce including, but not limited to, executive officers, key employees and employees with specialized skills, may negatively affect our ability to service our existing or new customers, or successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. Personnel costs may increase due to competitive pressures or terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees.. Market performance and other changes could decrease the value of pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets, which may result in significant additional funding requirements and increased annual expenses.. The performance of the capital markets impacts the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We have significant obligations to these plans and the trusts hold significant assets. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected rates of return. A decline in the market value of the pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets would increase the funding requirements under our benefit plans if asset returns do not recover. Additionally, our pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. Our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs are generally recoverable in our electric rates as allowed by our regulators or through our cost-plus fixed fee coal supply agreements at BNI Energy; however, there is no certainty that regulators will continue to allow recovery of these rising costs in the future.. We are exposed to significant reputational risk.. The Company could suffer negative impacts to its reputation as a result of operational incidents, violations of corporate compliance policies, regulatory violations, or other events which may result in negative customer perception and increased regulatory oversight, each of which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Catastrophic events, such as natural disasters and acts of war, may adversely affect our operations.. Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, ice storms, tornadoes, or similar occurrences, as well as acts of war, could adversely affect the Company's facilities, operations, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Although the Company has contingency plans and employs crisis management to respond and recover operations in the event of a severe disruption resulting from such events, these measures may not be successful. Furthermore, despite these measures, if such an occurrence were to occur, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. ALLETE, Inc. 2017 Form 10-K. 26. Item 1A.  Risk Factors (Continued). Entity-wide Risks (Continued). We are vulnerable to acts of terrorism or cybersecurity attacks.. Our operations may be targets of terrorist activities, including cybersecurity attacks, which could disrupt our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our products. There have been cyber security attacks on U.S. energy infrastructure in the past and there may be such attacks in the future. Our generation, transmission and distribution facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or otherwise be materially adversely affected by such activities.  Computer viruses, terrorism, theft and sabotage could impact our systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which we rely, which may disrupt our operations and adversely impact our results of operations. Our businesses require the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Our technology systems, or those of third parties on which we rely, may be vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism and other causes. If those technology systems fail or are breached and not recovered in a timely manner, we may be unable to perform critical business functions and sensitive, confidential and other data could be compromised, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Government challenges to our tax positions, as well as tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions, could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity.. We are required to make judgments in order to estimate federal and state tax obligations. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes for tax positions that may be challenged by tax authorities. The obligations, which include income taxes and taxes other than income taxes, involve complex matters that ultimately could be litigated. We also estimate our ability to use tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards and tax credits that are recorded as deferred tax assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. A disallowance of these tax benefits could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We plan to utilize our carryforwards and tax credits in the future to reduce our income tax obligations. If we cannot generate enough taxable income in the future to utilize all of our carryforwards and tax credits before they expire, we may incur adverse charges to earnings. If federal or state tax authorities disagree with the deductions resulting from our tax planning strategies, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted.. Regulated Operations Risks. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted if our Large Power Customers experience an economic downturn, incur work stoppages, fail to compete effectively, experience decreased demand or experience a decline in prices for their product.. Minnesota Power's nine Large Power Customers accounted for 25 percent of our 2017 consolidated operating revenue (22 percent in 2016 and in 2015), of which one of these customers accounted for approximately 10 percent of consolidated revenue in 2017 (8 percent in 2016 and in 2015). These customers are involved in cyclical industries that by their nature are adversely impacted by economic downturns and are subject to strong competition in the marketplace. Additionally, the North American paper and pulp industry also faces declining demand due to the impact of electronic substitution for print and changing customer needs.. Accordingly, if our customers experience an economic downturn, incur a work stoppage (including strikes, lock-outs or other events), fail to compete effectively, experience decreased demand or experience a decline in prices for their product, there could be adverse effects on their operations and, consequently, this could have a negative impact on our results of operations if we are unable to remarket at similar prices the energy that would otherwise have been sold to such Large Power Customers.. ALLETE, Inc. 2017 Form 10-K. 27. Item 1A.  Risk Factors (Continued). Regulated Operations Risks (Continued). Our utility operations are subject to an extensive legal and regulatory framework under federal and state laws as well as regulations imposed by other organizations that may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.. We are subject to an extensive legal and regulatory framework imposed under federal and state law including regulations administered by the FERC, MPUC, MPCA, PSCW, NDPSC and EPA as well as regulations administered by other organizations including the NERC. These laws and regulations relate to allowed rates of return, capital structure, financings, rate and cost structure, acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, construction and operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities (including the ongoing maintenance and reliable operation of such facilities), recovery of purchased power costs and capital investments, approval of integrated resource plans and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition, among other things. Energy policy initiatives at the state or federal level could increase incentives for distributed generation, municipal utility ownership, or local initiatives could introduce generation or distribution requirements that could change the current integrated utility model. Our transmission systems and electric generation facilities are subject to the NERC mandatory reliability standards, including cybersecurity standards. Compliance with these standards may lead to increased operating costs and capital expenditures. If it was determined that we were not in compliance with these mandatory reliability standards or other statutes, rules and orders, we could incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. These laws and regulations significantly influence our operations and may affect our ability to recover costs from our customers. We are required to have numerous permits, licenses, approvals and certificates from the agencies and other organizations that regulate our business. We believe we have obtained the necessary permits, licenses, approvals and certificates for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and other organizations. Changes in regulations or the adoption of new regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our ability to obtain rate adjustments to maintain reasonable rates of return depends upon regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and we cannot provide assurance that rate adjustments will be obtained or reasonable authorized rates of return on capital will be earned. Minnesota Power and SWL&P, from time to time, file general rate cases with, or otherwise seek cost recovery authorization from, federal and state regulatory authorities. If Minnesota Power and SWL&P do not receive an adequate amount of rate relief in general rate cases, including if rates are reduced, if increased rates are not approved on a timely basis or costs are otherwise unable to be recovered through rates, or if cost recovery is not granted at the requested level, we may experience an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are unable to predict the impact on our business and results of operations from future legislation or regulatory activities of any of these agencies or organizations.. Our operations present certain environmental risks that could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations, including effects of environmental laws and regulations, physical risks associated with climate change and initiatives designed to reduce the impact of GHG emissions.. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including air quality, water quality and usage, waste management, reclamation, hazardous wastes, avian mortality and natural resources. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital expenditures, environmental emission allowance trading, operating and other costs, as a result of compliance, remediation, containment and monitoring obligations, particularly with regard to laws relating to power plant emissions, coal ash, water discharge and wind energy facilities.. These laws and regulations could restrict the output of some existing facilities, limit the use of some fuels in the production of electricity, require the installation of additional pollution control equipment, require participation in environmental emission allowance trading, and lead to other environmental considerations and costs, which could have an adverse impact on our business, operations and results of operations.. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Violations of these laws and regulations could expose us to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, governmental authorities and private parties, as well as potential significant civil fines criminal penalties and other sanctions.. Existing environmental regulations may be revised and new environmental regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. ALLETE, Inc. 2017 Form 10-K. 28. Item 1A.  Risk Factors (Continued). Regulated Operations Risks (Continued). The scientific community generally accepts that emissions of GHG are linked to global climate change. Physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs. An extreme weather event within our utility service areas can also directly affect our capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. These all have the potential to adversely affect our business and operations.. There is significant uncertainty regarding if and when new laws or regulations will be adopted to reduce GHGs and the impact any such laws or regulations would have on us. In 2017, coal was the primary fuel source for 70 percent of the energy produced by our generating facilities. Any future limits on GHG emissions would likely require us to incur significant capital expenditures and increases in operating costs, which if significant, could result in the closure of certain coal-fired energy centers, an impairment of assets, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if such expenditures and costs are not fully recoverable from customers.. We cannot predict the amount or timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of uncertainty as to applicable regulations or requirements. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Violations of certain environmental statutes, rules and regulations could expose ALLETE to third party disputes and potentially significant monetary penalties, as well as other sanctions for non - compliance.. The operation and maintenance of our electric generation and transmission facilities are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The operation of generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up operations risks, breakdown or failure of facilities, the dependence on a specific fuel source, inadequate fuel supply, availability of fuel transportation, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions or other natural events, as well as the risk of performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. A significant portion of our facilities contain older generating equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to continue operating at peak efficiency. Generation and transmission facilities and equipment are also likely to require periodic upgrades and improvements due to changing environmental standards and technological advances. We could be subject to costs associated with any unexpected failure to produce or deliver power, including failure caused by breakdown or forced outage, as well as repairing damage to facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, sabotage, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events.. Our ability to successfully and timely complete capital improvements to existing facilities or other capital projects is contingent upon many variables.. We expect to incur significant capital expenditures in making capital improvements to our existing electric generation and transmission facilities and in the development and construction of new electric generation and transmission facilities. Should any such efforts be unsuccessful or not completed in a timely manner, we could be subject to additional costs or impairments which could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operation.. Our electric generating operations may not have access to adequate and reliable transmission and distribution facilities necessary to deliver electricity to our customers.. We depend on our own transmission and distribution facilities, as well as facilities owned by other utilities, to deliver the electricity produced and sold to our customers, and to other energy suppliers. If transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver electricity may be limited. We may have to forgo sales or may have to buy more expensive wholesale electricity that is available in the capacity-constrained area. In addition, any infrastructure failure that interrupts or impairs delivery of electricity to our customers could negatively impact the satisfaction of our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. ALLETE, Inc. 2017 Form 10-K. 29. Item 1A.  Risk Factors (Continued). Regulated Operations Risks (Continued). Our results of operations could be impacted by declining wholesale power prices.. Wholesale prices for electricity have declined in recent years primarily due to low natural gas prices. If there are reductions in demand from customers or if we lose customers, we will market any available power to Other Power Suppliers in an effort to mitigate any earnings impact. Sales to Other Power Suppliers are sold at market-based prices into the MISO market on a daily basis or through bilateral agreements of various durations. Due to the low wholesale prices for electricity, we can make no assurances that our power marketing efforts would fully offset any reduction in earnings resulting from the lower demand from existing customers or the loss of customers.. The price of electricity and fuel may be volatile.. Volatility in market prices for electricity and fuel could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations and may result from:. • severe or unexpected weather conditions and natural disasters;. • seasonality;. • changes in electricity usage;. • transmission or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies;. • availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources;. • changes in supply and demand for energy;. • changes in power production capacity;. • outages at our generating facilities or those of our competitors;. • availability of fuel transportation;. • changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products;. • wars, sabotage, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events; and. • federal, state, local and foreign energy, environmental, or other regulation and legislation.. Fluctuations in our fuel and purchased power costs related to our retail and municipal customers are passed on to customers through the fuel adjustment clause. Volatility in market prices for our fuel and purchase power costs primarily impacts our sales to Other Power Suppliers.. Demand for energy may decrease.. Our results of operations are impacted by the demand for energy in our service territories. There could be lower demand for energy due to a loss of customers as a result of economic conditions, customers constructing their own generation facilities, higher costs and rates charged to customers, or loss of service territory or franchises. Further, energy conservation and technological advances that increased energy efficiency may temporarily or permanently reduce the demand for energy products. In addition, we are impacted by state and federal regulations requiring mandatory conservation measures, which would reduce the demand for energy products. Continuing technology improvements and regulatory developments may make customer and third party-owned generation technologies such as rooftop solar systems, WTGs, microturbines and battery storage systems more cost effective and feasible for more of our customers. If more customers utilize their own generation, demand for energy from us would decline. There may not be future economic growth opportunities that would enable us to replace the lost energy demand from these customers. Therefore, a decrease in demand for energy could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to successfully implement our strategic objectives of growing load at our utilities if current or potential industrial or municipal customers are unable to successfully implement expansion plans, including the inability to obtain necessary governmental permits.. As part of our long-term strategy, we pursue new wholesale and retail loads in and around our service territories. Currently, there are several companies in northeastern Minnesota that are in the process of developing natural resource-based projects that represent long-term growth potential and load diversity for our Regulated Operations businesses. These projects may include construction of new facilities and restarts of old facilities, both of which require permitting and approvals to be obtained before the projects can be successfully implemented. If a project does not obtain any necessary governmental (including environmental) permits and approvals or if these customers are unable to successfully implement expansion plans, our long-term strategy and thus our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. ALLETE, Inc. 2017 Form 10-K. 30. Item 1A.  Risk Factors (Continued). Energy Infrastructure and Related Services Risks. The inability to successfully manage and grow our Energy Infrastructure and Related Services businesses could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our Energy Infrastructure and Related Services businesses consist of ALLETE Clean Energy and U.S. Water Services. The Company's strategy for these businesses includes adding customers, products, and new geographies, project development for others and growth through acquisitions. This strategy depends, in part, on the Company's ability to successfully identify and evaluate acquisition opportunities and consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms. The Company may compete with other companies for these acquisition opportunities, which may increase the Company's cost of making acquisitions and the Company may be unsuccessful in pursuing these acquisition opportunities. These companies may be able to pay more for acquisitions and may be able to identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of assets than the Company's financial or human resources permit. Additionally, tax law changes may adversely impact the economic characteristics of potential acquisitions or investments. If the Company is unable to execute its strategy of growth through acquisitions, project development for others, or the addition of new customers, products and geographies, it may impede our long-term objectives and business strategy.. Acquisitions are subject to uncertainties. If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage future acquisitions or strategic investments, this could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our actual results may also differ from our expectations due to factors such as the ability to obtain timely regulatory or governmental approvals, integration and operational issues and the ability to retain management and other key personnel.. U.S. Water Services principally relies upon recurring revenues from a diverse mix of industrial customers. Some of these customers can be adversely affected by low commodity prices such as those for ethanol and oil which may cause these customers to purchase less of U.S. Water Services' products and services. If U.S. Water Services is unable to retain its existing customers, add new customers, or if it experiences reduced demand for its products and services, adverse impacts on our results of operations could occur that would prevent us from achieving our future growth expectations.. The generation of electricity from ALLETE Clean Energy's wind energy facilities depends heavily on suitable meteorological conditions.. ALLETE Clean Energy's facilities are geographically diverse; however, if wind conditions are unfavorable, ALLETE Clean Energy's electricity generation and revenue from its wind energy facilities may be substantially below its expectations. The electricity produced, production tax credits received, and revenues generated by a wind energy facility are highly dependent on suitable wind conditions and associated weather conditions, which are beyond ALLETE Clean Energy's control. Furthermore, components of its systems could be damaged by severe weather, such as hailstorms, lightning or tornadoes. In addition, replacement and spare parts for key components of ALLETE Clean Energy's diverse turbine portfolio may be difficult or costly to acquire or may be unavailable. Unfavorable weather and atmospheric conditions could impair the effectiveness of ALLETE Clean Energy's assets or reduce their output beneath their rated capacity or require shutdown of key equipment, impeding operation of its wind energy facilities.. The operation and maintenance of ALLETE Clean Energy's electric generation facilities are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The operation of generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up operations risks, breakdown or failure of facilities, the dependence on the availability of wind resources, or the impact of unusual, adverse weather conditions or other natural events, as well as the risk of performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. A portion of our facilities contain older generating equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to continue operating at peak efficiency. We could be subject to costs associated with any unexpected failure to produce and deliver power, including failure caused by breakdown or forced outage, as well as repairing damage to facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, sabotage, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events.. ALLETE, Inc. 2017 Form 10-K. 31. Item 1A.  Risk Factors (Continued). Energy Infrastructure and Related Services Risks (Continued). As contracts with its counterparties expire, ALLETE Clean Energy may not be able to replace them with agreements on similar terms.. ALLETE Clean Energy is party to PSAs which expire in various years between 2018 and 2032. These PSA expirations are prior to the end of the estimated useful lives of the respective wind energy facilities. If, for any reason, ALLETE Clean Energy is unable to enter into new agreements with existing or new counterparties on similar terms once the current agreements expire, or sell energy in the wholesale market resulting in similar revenue, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Counterparties to ALLETE Clean Energy's offtake agreements may not fulfill their obligations.. ALLETE Clean Energy is party to PSAs under various durations with a limited number of creditworthy counterparties. If, for any reason, any of the counterparties under these agreements do not fulfill their related contractual obligations, and ALLETE Clean Energy is unable to remarket the energy resulting in similar revenue, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. ALLETE has a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets. A determination that goodwill or intangible assets have been impaired could result in a significant non-cash charge to earnings.. We had approximately $226 million of goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017, relating to our initial acquisition of U.S. Water Services in 2015 as well as U.S. Water Services' subsequent acquisitions. If we change our business strategy, fail to deliver on our projected results or if market or other conditions adversely affect the operations of U.S. Water Services, we may be required to record an impairment charge. Declines in projected operating cash flows at U.S. Water Services could also result in an impairment charge. An impairment charge would result in a non-cash charge to earnings that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Corporate and Other Risks. BNI Energy may be adversely impacted by its exposure to customer concentration, and environmental laws and regulations.. BNI Energy sells lignite coal to two electric generating cooperatives, Minnkota Power and Square Butte, and could be adversely impacted if these customers were unable or unwilling to fulfill their related contractual obligations. In addition, BNI Energy and its customers may be adversely impacted by environmental laws and regulations which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Real estate market conditions where our legacy Florida real estate investment is located may not improve.. The Company's strategy related to the real estate assets of ALLETE Properties incorporates the possibility of a bulk sale of its entire portfolio, in addition to sales over time, however, continued adverse market conditions could impact the timing of land sales, which could result in little to no sales, while still incurring operating expenses such as community development district assessments and property taxes, resulting in net operating losses at ALLETE Properties. Furthermore, weak market conditions could put the properties at risk for an impairment charge. An impairment charge would result in a non-cash charge to earnings that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations."
