[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. Any statements made in this report that are not statements of historical fact or that refer to estimated or anticipated future events are forward - looking statements, as contemplated in the Private Securities Litgiation Reform Act of 1995.  We have based our forward - looking statements on management's beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time these statements are made.  Such forward - looking statements reflect our current perspective of our business, future performance, existing trends and information as of the date of this filing.  These include, but are not limited to, our beliefs about future revenue and expense levels and growth rates, prospects related to our strategic initiatives and business strategies, including the integration of, and synergies associated with, strategic acquisitions, express or implied assumptions about government regulatory action or inaction, anticipated product approvals and launches, business initiatives and product development activities, assessments related to clinical trial results, product performance and competitive environment, and anticipated financial performance.. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, words such as \"may,\" \"will,\" \"expect,\" \"believe,\" \"anticipate,\" \"plan,\" \"intend,\" \"could,\" \"would,\" \"should,\" \"estimate,\" \"continue,\" or \"pursue,\" or the negative or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, are intended to identify forward - looking statements.  The statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.  We caution the reader that these statements are based on certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control.. In addition, certain important factors may affect our actual operating results and could cause such results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward - looking statements.  We believe the risks and uncertainties discussed under the section entitled \"Risks Related to Our Business,\" and other risks and uncertainties detailed herein and from time to time in our SEC filings, may cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward - looking statement.. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control.  The following discussion highlights some of these risks and speaks as of the date of this document, including the assets held for sale.  These and other risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Risks Related to Our Business. Global economic conditions could harm us.. While global economic conditions have been fairly stable as a whole in recent years, continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential geopolitical issues and economic policy uncertainty, particularly in areas in which we operate, could potentially cause economic and market instability in the future and could adversely affect the Company's business, including the Company's financial performance.. Challenging economic conditions could result in tighter credit conditions. The cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which could adversely affect the ability of third-party distributors, partners, manufacturers and suppliers to buy inventory or raw materials and to perform their obligations under agreements with us, which could disrupt our operations, and which could adversely affect the liquidity and financial conditions of our customers.. Global efforts towards health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In many international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of patented drugs. Some countries may be subject to periods of financial instability or may have reduced resources to spend on healthcare or may be or will be in the future subject to economic sanctions, and our business in these countries may be disproportionately affected by these changes. In addition, the currencies of some countries may depreciate against the U.S. Dollar substantially and if the Company is unable to offset the impact of such depreciation, then the Company's financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new products, our operating results will suffer.. Our future results of operations depend to a significant extent upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new products in a timely manner.  There are numerous difficulties in developing and commercializing new products, including:. •  developing, testing and manufacturing products in compliance with regulatory standards in a timely manner;. •  receiving requisite regulatory approvals for such products in a timely manner, or at all;. •  the availability, on commercially reasonable terms, of raw materials, including API and other key ingredients;. 23. •  preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others;. •  developing products that are economical to manufacture and commercialize;. •  time consuming and costly nature of developing and commercializing new products;. •  costly legal actions brought by our competitors that may delay or prevent the development and commercialization of new products;. •  delays as a result of limited resources at the FDA or other regulatory agencies;. •  changing review and approval policies and standards at the FDA and other regulatory agencies; and. •  completion of numerous other regulatory approvals in international markets.. As a result of these and other difficulties, products currently in development by us may or may not receive timely regulatory approvals necessary for marketing by us or other third - party partners, or approvals at all.  This risk because of the uncertainties, higher costs and lengthy time frames associated with R&D of our proprietary products and the inherent unproven market acceptance of such products.  Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate as the amount we spend to research and develop, promote, acquire or license new products, technologies and businesses changes. If any of our products or any products that we sell pursuant to license, distribution or similar agreements with third - party partners are not approved in a timely manner or, when acquired or developed and approved, cannot be successfully manufactured or commercialized in a timely manner, our operating results could be adversely affected.  We cannot guarantee that any investment we make in developing products will be recouped, even if we are successful in commercializing those products.  Refer to \"Our expenditures may not result in commercially successful products.\". Our expenditures may not result in commercially successful products.. Developing and commercializing branded pharmaceutical products is generally more costly than developing and commercializing generic products.  In order to grow and achieve success in our business, we must continually identify, develop, acquire and license new products that we can ultimately market. In the future, we anticipate continuing and increasing our product development expenditures.  There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and development, and there is a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development.  Failure can occur at any point in the process, including late in the process after substantial investment.  New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and payer reimbursement, limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others.  Products that do reach the market may ultimately be subject to recalls or other suspensions in sales.  Delays and uncertainties in the FDA approval process and the approval processes in other countries can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity.  Because there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research and development process of new products, there is a significant risk that funds invested by the Company in research and development will not generate financial returns.  The Company cannot be certain when or whether any of its products currently under development will be approved or launched or whether, once launched, such products will be commercially successful.. We may be required to spend several years and incur substantial expense in completing certain clinical trials.  The length of time, number of trial sites and patients required for clinical trials vary substantially, and we may have difficulty finding a sufficient number of sites and subjects to participate in our trials.  Delays in planned clinical trials can result in increased development costs, delays in regulatory approvals and delays in product candidates reaching the market.  We rely on independent third - party clinical investigators to recruit subjects and conduct clinical trials in accordance with applicable study protocols and laws and regulations.  If regulatory authorities determine that we have not complied with regulations in the R&D of a product candidate, they may refuse to accept trial data from the site and/or not approve the product candidate, and we would not be able to market and sell that product.  If we are not able to market and sell our products after significant expenditures to develop and test them, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We currently have products in various stages of development, including new opthamology, women's health and CNS products, among others.  Such clinical trials are costly and may not result in successful outcomes.  The results of preclinical studies and early clinical studies may not be predictive of the results of later - stage clinical studies.  Product candidates that have shown promising results in early - stage clinical studies may still suffer significant setbacks in subsequent clinical studies.  There is a high rate of failure for products proceeding through clinical studies, and product candidates in later stages of clinical studies may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical studies.  Clinical studies may not proceed as planned or be completed on schedule, if at all.  The rate of completion of clinical trials is significantly dependent upon a number of factors, including the rate of patient enrollment.  We may not be able to attract a sufficient number of sites or enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely manner in order to complete clinical trials.  Moreover, nonclinical and clinical data are often. 24. susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and our data may not provide adequate efficacy and safety information to obtain regulatory approval of our candidates.  We cannot be sure that our business expenditures, including but not limited to our expenditures related to internally developed products, our Esmya\231 product, products acquired in past acquisitions, or products of our third - party partners, among others, will result in the successful discovery, development or launch of branded products that will prove to be commercially successful or will improve the long - term profitability of our business.  If such business expenditures do not result in successful discovery, development or launch of commercially successful branded products our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. If any of our major products become subject to problems, our business could be adversely affected.. We recorded direct product revenues of more than $500 million for the following pharmaceutical products:  Botox®, the Juvederm Collection, Linzess®/Constella®, Lumigan®/Ganfort®, Bystolic®/Byvalson®, and Alphagan®/Combigan® and Restasis®.  Those products and revenues accounted for 51.8% of our total revenues in 2017. These products, as well as our other major products, may become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection (if applicable), changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing or new competitive products or changes in labeling, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  For example, in October 2017, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas issued an adverse trial decision finding that the four asserted patents covering Restasis® (Cyclosporine Ophthalmic Emulsion) 0.05% are invalid.  The case is currently on appeal; however, FDA may approve  -  and generics may attempt to launch  -  generic versions of Restasis® before the court of appeals has issued its decision in the appeal.. If generic products that compete with any of our branded pharmaceutical products are approved and sold, sales of our products will be adversely affected.. Generic equivalents for branded pharmaceutical products are typically sold at lower prices than the branded products. The regulatory approval process in the United States and European Union exempts generic products from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy and rely instead on the safety and efficacy of prior products, manufacturers of generic products can invest far less in research and development.  After the introduction of a competing generic product, a significant percentage of the prescriptions previously written for the branded product are often written for the generic version.  In addition, legislation enacted in most U.S. states and Canadian provinces allows or, in some instances mandates, that a pharmacist dispense an available generic equivalent when filling a prescription for a branded product, in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician.  Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch - Waxman Act, manufacturers of branded products often bring lawsuits to enforce their patent rights against generic products released prior to the expiration of branded products' patents, but it is possible for generic manufacturers to offer generic products while such litigation is pending.  Refer to \"If we are unable to adequately protect our technology or enforce our patents, our business could suffer.\"  As a result, branded products typically experience a significant loss in revenues following the introduction of a competing generic product, even if subject to an existing patent.  Our branded pharmaceutical products are or may become subject to competition from generic equivalents because there is no proprietary protection for some of the branded pharmaceutical products we sell, because our patent protection expires or because our patent protection is not sufficiently broad or enforceable.  In addition, we may not be successful in our efforts to extend the proprietary protection afforded our branded products through the development and commercialization of proprietary product improvements.. In October 2017, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas issued an adverse trial decision finding that the four asserted patents covering Restasis® (Cyclosporine Ophthalmic Emulsion) 0.05% are invalid.. Our Actonel® products no longer have patent protection in Canada or the Western European countries in which we sell these products, and Asacol® is not protected by a patent in the United Kingdom.  Our Actonel® once - a - month product lost U.S. patent protection in June 2014 (including a 6 - month pediatric extension of regulatory exclusivity) and generic versions of our Loestrin® 24 Fe product entered the market in January 2014 pursuant to settlement agreements previously entered into.  Generic versions of Namenda® (IR) tablets entered the U.S. market in July 2015 pursuant to settlement agreements previously entered into.  An authorized generic version of Asacol HD® entered the market in July 2016 pursuant to a settlement agreement previously entered into.   In addition, other products such as Estrace® Cream, Asacol® 400 mg, Aczone® 5%, Femhrt®, Latisse®, and Carafate® are not protected by patents in the United States where we sell these products.  Generic equivalents are currently available in Canada and Western Europe for Actonel® and in the United States for certain versions of our Femhrt® products, Femcon® Fe and certain other less significant products.. During the next few years, additional products of ours, including some of our large revenue drivers, like Aczone® 5%, Bystolic®, Canasa®, Delzicol®, Gelnique®, Namenda XR®, Pylera®, Rapaflo®, Saphris® and Viibryd®, will lose patent protection and/or likely become subject to generic or other competition.  Generic versions of our Canasa® product may enter the market as early as December 2018 or earlier pursuant to an agreement previously entered into.  Some of our products may also become subject to generic. 25. competition prior to the expiration of patent protection in the event a generic competitor elects to launch its generic equivalent product \"at - risk.\"  For example, before the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit has reviewed Allergan's appeal of a district court judgment of patent invalidity, Sandoz launched \"at risk\" a generic version of Latisse® in December 2016.  Competition from generic equivalents could result in a material impairment of our intangible assets or the acceleration of amortization on our non - impaired intangible assets and may have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and our future revenue growth and profitability are dependent on our timely development and launches of new products ahead of our competitors.. We face strong competition across our business.  The intensely competitive environment of the pharmaceutical industry requires an ongoing, extensive search for technological innovations and the ability to market and price products effectively, including the ability to communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of branded products to healthcare professionals in private practice, group practices and Managed Care Organizations.  Our competitors vary depending upon product categories, and within each product category, upon dosage strengths and drug - delivery systems.  Based on total assets, annual revenues, and market capitalization, we are smaller than certain of our national and international competitors in the brand and distribution product arenas.  Most of our competitors have been in business for a longer period of time than we have, have a greater number of products on the market and have greater financial and other resources than we do.  Furthermore, recent trends in this industry are toward further market consolidation of large drug companies into a smaller number of very large entities, further concentrating financial, technical and market strength and increasing competitive pressure in the industry.  If we directly compete with them for the same markets and/or products, their financial strength could prevent us from capturing a profitable share of those markets.  It is possible that developments by our competitors will make our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.  In addition, competitive forces may result in changes to the mix of products that we sell during a given time period or lower demand for our products than expected.. Some of our competitors have technical, competitive or other advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes.  We face increased competition from new infection prevention, sterile processing, contamination control, surgical support, cleaning consumables, gastrointestinal endoscopy accessories, contract sterilization, and other products and services entering the market.  These advantages may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products that these competitors may bring to market.  As a result, our products may compete against products that have lower prices, equivalent or superior performance, a better safety profile, are easier to administer, achieve earlier entry into the market or that are otherwise competitive with our products.. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology or enforce our patents, our business could suffer.. Our success with the branded products that we develop will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for these products.  We currently have a number of U.S. and foreign patents issued and pending.  However, issuance of a patent is not conclusive evidence of its validity or enforceability.  We cannot be sure that we will receive patents for any of our pending patent applications or any patent applications we may file in the future, or that our issued patents will be upheld if challenged.  If our current and future patent applications are not approved or, if approved, our patents are not upheld in a court of law if challenged, it may reduce our ability to competitively utilize our patented products.  Also, such patents may or may not provide competitive advantages for their respective products or they may be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, in which case our ability to commercially market these products may be diminished.  Patent disputes may be lengthy and a potential violator of our patents may bring a potentially infringing product to market during the dispute, subjecting us to competition and damages due to infringement of the competitor product.  Further, patents covering Aczone® 5%, Androderm®, Carafate®, Estrace® Cream, Femhrt®, INFed® and Namenda® (IR) products have expired and we have no further patent protection on these products.  As a result, generic versions of our Aczone® 5% product entered the market around October 2017 and generic versions of our Estrace® Cream product entered the market in January 2018.   During the next few years, additional products acquired pursuant to the Warner Chilcott Acquisition, the Forest Acquisition, and the Allergan Acquisition will lose patent protection and/or likely become subject to generic or other competition, including Bystolic®, Canasa®, Delzicol®, Gelnique®, Namenda XR®, Pylera®, Rapaflo®, Saphris® and Viibryd®.  Therefore, it is possible that a competitor may launch a generic version of any of these products at any time, which would result in a significant decline in that product's revenue and profit.. Generic versions of our Loestrin® 24 Fe product entered the market in January 2014 pursuant to settlement agreements previously entered into; an authorized generic version of our Asacol® HD 800 mg product entered the market in August 2016 pursuant to an agreement previously entered into; our immediate release Namenda® product lost U.S. patent protection in 2015 and generic versions entered the market in July 2015 pursuant to agreements previously entered into; generic versions of our Minastrin® product which entered the market during March 2017 pursuant to settlement agreements previously entered into; and generic versions of our Canasa® product may enter the market as early as December 2018 pursuant to a settlement agreement previously entered into.  Some of our products, e.g., Delzicol®, Restasis®, and Combigan®, may also become subject to generic competition prior to the expiration of patent protection in the event a generic competitor is not enjoined and elects to launch its generic equivalent product \"at risk.\". 26. Generic competitors to our branded products may also challenge the validity or enforceability of the patents protecting our products or otherwise seek to circumvent them. Forest also recently brought actions against certain manufacturers of generic drugs for infringement of several patents covering our Byvalson®, Canasa®, Delzicol®, Linzess®, Fetzima®, Namenda XR®, Namzaric®, Pylera®, Saphris®, Savella®, Teflaro® and Viibryd® products.  Allergan recently brought actions against manufacturers of generic drugs in the United States for infringement of several patents covering our Aczone® 7.5%, Combigan®, Lastacaft®, Latisse®, and Restasis® products.  While we intend to vigorously defend these and other patents and pursue our legal rights, we can offer no assurance as to when the pending or any future litigation will be decided, whether such lawsuits will be successful or that a generic equivalent of one or more of our products will not be approved and enter the market.   In addition, patents covering our branded pharmaceutical products may be challenged in proceedings other than court proceedings, including IPR at the U.S. Patent Office.  In 2011, Congress amended the patent laws and created a new way to challenge the validity of patents:  the inter partes review.  IPR proceedings take place in the U.S. Patent Office and have both advantages and disadvantages when compared to district court proceedings.  Although IPR proceedings are limited to certain types of invalidity challenges, the U.S. Patent Office applies different standards that make it easier for challengers to invalidate patents.  Moreover, IPR proceedings generally take no more than 18 months, which means it is much faster than challenging a patent's validity in a district court proceeding.  In addition, an IPR challenge can be mounted even after a patent has been upheld in court.  For example, Mylan has filed IPR challenges against our patents covering our Restasis® and Teoxane® products and recent filed IPR challenges against certain patents covering certain of our Juvederm® product.. In addition to patent protection, our business relies on our protection of other intellectual property rights, trade secrets, and other proprietary technologies.  We rely on trademark, copyright, trade - secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights.  The protection of our proprietary technology may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.  For example, in April 2017, Allergan brought an action for unfair competition, false advertising, dilution, conspiracy and infringement of Allergan's JUVÉDERM trademarks in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California against Dermavita Limited Partnership, Dima Corp. S.A. and KBC Media Relations LLC.  However, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from misappropriating or infringing upon our proprietary rights.. We rely on certain information, processes, and know - how that are not protected by patents or other intellectual property rights.  We seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements, as well as through other measures.  These measures may not provide adequate protection for our unpatented technology.. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or proprietary know - how, or enforce our intellectual property rights, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer.. From time to time we may need to rely on licenses to proprietary technologies, which may be difficult or expensive to obtain.. We may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market products.  If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially market our products may be inhibited or prevented, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  For example, because we license significant intellectual property with respect to certain of our products, including Delzicol®, Namenda XR®, Namzaric®, Linzess®, Teflaro® and Viibryd®, any loss or suspension of our rights to licensed intellectual property could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our products.. The manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry.  These lawsuits relate to the validity, enforceability and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties.  We may have to defend ourselves against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties.  This is especially true in the case of new branded products where a competitor has obtained patents for similar products.  Litigation may be costly, unpredictable, time - consuming, often involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions, and could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel.  In addition, if it is determined that we infringe the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or market products, product launches could be delayed or we could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.  As a result, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could result in substantial monetary damage awards and could prevent us from manufacturing and selling a number of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 27. Certain aspects of our operations are highly dependent upon third - party service providers.. We rely on suppliers, vendors and other third - party service providers to research, develop, manufacture, commercialize, promote and sell our products.  Reliance on third - party manufacturers reduces our oversight and control of the manufacturing process.  Some of these third - party providers are subject to legal and regulatory requirements, privacy and security risks, and market risks of their own.  The failure of a critical third - party service provider to meet its obligations could have a material adverse impact on our operations and results.  If any third - party service providers have violated or are alleged to have violated any laws or regulations during the performance of their obligations to us, it is possible that we could suffer financial and reputation harm or other negative outcomes, including possible legal consequences.. If we are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials, our ability to deliver our products to the market may be impeded.. We are required to identify the supplier(s) of all the raw materials for our products in our applications with the FDA and regulatory agencies outside the United States.  To the extent practicable, we attempt to identify more than one API supplier in each drug application.  However, many raw materials, including API, are available only from a single source and, in many of our drug applications, only one supplier of raw materials has been identified, even in instances where multiple sources exist.  Some of these products have historically or may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenues, such as Botox®, our Juvederm® dermal filler family of products, Namenda®, Linzess® and Bystolic®.  Any failure by us to forecast demand for, or to maintain an adequate supply of, the raw materials could result in an interruption in the supply of certain products and a decline in sales of that product.  In addition, if our suppliers are unable to meet our manufacturing requirements, we may not be able to produce a sufficient amount of product in a timely manner, which could cause a decline in our sales.  From time to time, certain of our suppliers have experienced regulatory or supply - related difficulties that have inhibited their ability to deliver raw materials to us, causing supply delays or interruptions.  The availability and prices of raw materials and supplies are subject to volatility and are influenced by worldwide economic conditions, speculative action, world supply and demand balances, inventory levels, availability of substitute materials, currency exchange rates, anticipated or perceived shortages, product contamination, among other factors.  To the extent any difficulties experienced by our suppliers cannot be resolved or extensions of our key supply agreements cannot be negotiated within a reasonable time and on commercially reasonable terms, or if raw materials for a particular product become unavailable from an approved supplier and we are required to qualify a new supplier with the FDA or other regulatory agency, or if we are unable to do so, our profit margins and market share for the affected product could decrease or be eliminated, as well as delay our development and sales and marketing efforts.  Such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Although we are developing and executing a global risk management framework designed to identify, prioritize, mitigate and continuously monitor potential risks to raw material suppliers, including mitigation strategies such as holding safety stock of raw materials and developing additional sources for sole- or single- sourced raw materials, there is no guarantee that these strategies will be successful and will be able to mitigate any material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, our manufacturing sites outside of the United States and our arrangements with foreign suppliers are subject to certain additional risks, including the availability of government clearances, export duties, political instability, war, acts of terrorism, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the transfer of funds.  Arrangements with international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other things, FDA and foreign regulatory body regulation, customs clearances, various import duties and other government clearances, as well as potential shipping delays due to inclement weather, political instability, strikes or other matters outside of our control.  Acts of governments outside the U.S. may affect the price or availability of raw materials needed for the development or manufacture of our products.  In addition, changes in patent laws in jurisdictions outside the U.S. may make it increasingly difficult to obtain raw materials for R&D prior to the expiration of the applicable U.S. or foreign patents.. Disruption in global trade could prevent us from getting our product to market.. Allergan relies on global trade channels to supply product to the United States and other countries around the world.    For example, manufacturing of Botox®, Bystolic® and Linzess® is exclusively performed in Ireland, and manufacturing of our Juvederm® dermal filler family of products is exclusively performed in France.  Global trade is subject to certain additional risks, including the availability of government clearances, export duties, political instability, war, acts of terrorism, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the transfer of funds.  For example, we obtain a significant portion of our raw materials from suppliers that are not in the same country as the manufacturing plant that uses them.  Arrangements with international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other things, FDA and other regulatory body regulation, customs clearances, various import duties and other government clearances, as well as potential shipping delays due to inclement weather, political instability, strikes or other matters outside of our control.  Acts of governments may affect the price or availability of raw materials needed for the development or manufacture of our products.  In addition, recent changes in patent laws in jurisdictions outside the U.S. may make it increasingly difficult to obtain raw materials for R&D prior to the expiration of the applicable U.S. or foreign patents.. 28. The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and other third parties, and insurance against such potential claims is expensive and may be difficult to obtain.. The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims and the associated adverse publicity.  For example, the Company is subject to approximately 160 legal actions asserting product liability claims relating to the use of Celexa® or Lexapro®.  These cases include claims that Celexa® or Lexapro® caused various birth defects. While we believe there is no merit to these cases, litigation is inherently subject to uncertainties and we may be required to expend substantial amounts in the defense or resolution of certain of these matters.  We regularly monitor the use of our products for trends or increases in reports of adverse events or product complaints, and regularly report such matters to the FDA.  In some, but not all cases, an increase in adverse event reports may be an indication that there has been a change in a product's specifications or efficacy.  Such changes could lead to a recall of the product in question or, in some cases, increases in product liability claims related to the product in question.  If the coverage limits for product liability insurance policies are not adequate or if certain of our products are excluded from coverage, a claim brought against us, whether covered by insurance or not, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  We also rely on self - insurance to cover product liability claims, and these claims may exceed amounts we have reserved under our self - insurance program.. We are also subject to a variety of other types of claims, proceedings, investigations and litigation initiated by government agencies or third parties.  These include compliance matters, product regulation or safety, taxes, employee benefit plans, employment discrimination, health and safety, environmental, antitrust, customs, import/export, government contract compliance, financial controls or reporting, intellectual property, allegations of misrepresentation, false claims or false statements, commercial claims, claims regarding promotion of our products and services, or other similar matters.  For example, consumer groups and certain plaintiffs have alleged that certain uses of Botox®, including \"off-label\" uses, have caused patient injuries and death and have further failed to adequately warn patients of the risks relating to Botox® use.  From time to time reports related to the quality and safety of breast implant devices are published, including reports that have suggested a possible association between anaplastic large cell lymphoma and breast implants, as well as negative reports from regulatory authorities in Europe related to a breast implant manufacturer that is not affiliated with the Company.  In addition, government investigations related to the use of products, but not the efficacy themselves, may cause reputational harm to the Company.  Negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, about the efficacy, safety or side effects of our products or product categories, whether involving us or a competitor, could materially reduce market acceptance to our products, cause consumers to seek alternatives to our products, result in product withdrawals and cause our stock price to decline.  Negative publicity could also result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims have a basis in scientific fact.  Any such claims, proceedings, investigations or litigation, regardless of the merits, might result in substantial costs, restrictions on product use or sales, or otherwise injure our business.. Our business could suffer as a result of manufacturing difficulties or delays.. The manufacture of our pharmaceutical products and product candidates requires precise manufacturing process controls, API that conforms to very tight tolerances for specific characteristics and equipment that operates consistently within narrow performance ranges.  Manufacturing complexity, testing requirements, and safety processes combine to increase the overall difficulty of manufacturing these products and resolving manufacturing problems that we may encounter.. Our manufacturing and other processes utilize sophisticated equipment, which sometimes require a significant amount of time to obtain and install.  Our business could suffer if certain manufacturing or other equipment, or a portion or all of our facilities were to become inoperable for a period of time.  This could occur for various reasons, including catastrophic events such as earthquake, monsoon, hurricane or explosion, unexpected equipment failures or delays in obtaining spare parts, contamination by microorganisms or viruses, labor disputes or shortages, contractual disputes with our suppliers and contract manufacturers, as well as construction delays or defects and other events, both within and outside of our control.  We manufacture certain products, including Botox®, our Juvederm® dermal filler family of products, Linzess® and Bystolic®, at a single Allergan facility.  Additionally, we expect to continue to rely on our third party manufacturing partners, such as Teva for Lo Loestrin® and Patheon for Viberzi®, that utilize single manufacturing facilities.  Therefore, a significant disruptive event at certain manufacturing facilities or sites could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations as noted with our supply interruption with Avycaz® in 2016. In the event of a disruption, we may need to build or locate replacement facilities as well as seek and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for these facilities. Our inability to timely manufacture any of our significant products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 29. Manufacturing processes at Allergan-owned facilities and those of our third party contract manufacturers must undergo a potentially lengthy regulatory approval process by the FDA and/or equivalent agencies in other countries.  It can take longer than five years to build, validate and license a new manufacturing plant and it can take longer than three years to qualify and license a new contract manufacturer.  If regulatory authorities determine that we or our third party contract manufacturers or certain of our third party service providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or selling our marketed products until we or the affected third party contract manufacturers or third party service providers comply, or indefinitely.  Because our third party contract manufacturers and certain of our third party service providers are subject to the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified third party contract manufacturers and third party service providers may not be available on a timely basis or at all.  Although we have launched a global manufacturing business continuity program to reduce the potential for manufacturing difficulties or delays and reduce the severity of a disruptive event, under which program manufacturing sites identify and develop temporary workarounds for manufacturing processes that may be disrupted with the aim of reducing the risk and severity of a disruptive event, there is no guarantee that this program will be successful, and if we or our third party contract manufacturers or third party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third party contract manufacturers and third party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock outs and/or recalls of our products.. Our business could suffer as a result of failure of our R&D program or the failure of our product pipeline to produce successful prodoucts.. The discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. Our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. Our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal R&D or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. However, balancing current growth, investment for future growth and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. The average costs of product development continue to rise, as do the regulatory requirements in many therapeutic areas, which may affect the number of candidates funded as well as the sustainability of the R&D portfolio. Our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in R&D for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth.. Additionally, our R&D investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a robust pipeline could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. Further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program despite the significant investment required for R&D, and the commercial potential of the product may not be as competitive as expected because of the highly dynamic market environment and the hurdles in terms of access and reimbursement.. Investigations of the calculation of average wholesale prices may adversely affect our business.. Many government and third - party payers, including Medicare, Medicaid, HMOs and MCOs, have historically reimbursed doctors, pharmacies and others for the purchase of certain prescription drugs based on a drug's average wholesale price (\"AWP\") or wholesale acquisition cost (\"WAC\").  In the past several years, state and federal government agencies have conducted ongoing investigations of manufacturers' reporting practices with respect to AWP and WAC, in which they have suggested that reporting of inflated AWPs or WACs has led to excessive payments for prescription drugs.  For example, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, as well as numerous other pharmaceutical companies, have been named as defendants in various state and federal court actions alleging improper or fraudulent practices related to the reporting of AWP and/or WAC of certain products, and other improper acts, in order to increase prices and market shares. Similarly, in December 2015, certain subsidiaries of the Company were named as defendants in a private class action litigation in Pennsylvania based on similar allegations.  Additional actions are possible.  These actions, if successful, could adversely affect us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We are subject to U.S. federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, and the failure to comply with such laws may adversely affect our business.. In the United States, many of our products are reimbursed under federal and state health care programs such as Medicaid, Medicare, TriCare, and/or state pharmaceutical assistance programs, and as a result, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business.  We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business.  The laws that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to:  (i) the U.S. Anti - Kickback Statute, which. 30. applies to our marketing and research practices, educational programs, pricing policies and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, either the referral of an individual or the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; (ii) federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third - party payers that are false or fraudulent; (iii) the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, (\"HIPAA\"), which among other things created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters, and HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information and places restrictions on the use of such information for marketing communications; (iv) the U.S. Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which among other things, requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under a federal healthcare program to report annually information related to \"payments or other transfers of value\" made to physicians and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by certain healthcare professionals and their immediate family members and similar state laws; (v) the government pricing rules applicable to the Medicaid, Medicare Part B, 340B Drug Pricing Program, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs program, the TriCare program, and state price reporting laws; and (vi) state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above U.S. laws, such as anti - kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third - party payer, including commercial insurers, and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.  Violations of the fraud and abuse laws may result in severe penalties against Allergan and/or its responsible employees, including jail sentences, large fines, and the exclusion of our products from reimbursement under federal and state programs.  Defense of litigation claims and government investigations can be costly, time - consuming, and distract management, and it is possible that Allergan could incur judgments or enter into settlements that would require us to change the way we operate our business.  We are committed to conducting the sales and marketing of our products in compliance with the healthcare fraud and abuse laws, but certain applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud.  Furthermore, should there be ambiguity, a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, or should an employee violate these laws without our knowledge, a governmental authority may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions.. Any adverse outcome in these types of actions, or the imposition of penalties or sanctions for failing to comply with the fraud and abuse laws, could adversely affect us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Some of the statutes and regulations that govern our activities, such as federal and state anti - kickback and false claims laws, are broad in scope, and while exemptions and safe harbors protecting certain common activities exist, they are often narrowly drawn.  While we manage our business activities to comply with these statutory provisions, due to their breadth, complexity and, in certain cases, uncertainty of application, it is possible that our activities could be subject to challenge by various government agencies.  In particular, the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice and other agencies are engaged in enforcement activities with respect to the sales, marketing, research and similar activities of pharmaceutical companies, and many pharmaceutical companies have been subject to government investigations related to these practices.  A determination that we are in violation of these and/or other government regulations and legal requirements may result in civil damages and penalties, criminal fines and prosecution, administrative remedies, the recall of products, the total or partial suspension of manufacture and/or distribution, seizure of products, injunctions, whistleblower lawsuits, failure to obtain approval of pending product applications, withdrawal of existing product approvals, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and other sanctions.. Allergan is also currently responding to subpoenas seeking information relating to its sales and marketing activities, including payments to people who are in a position to recommend drugs and \"off - label\" promotion and the Company is defending litigations based on similar allegations.  Refer to Legal Matters in \"NOTE 24  -  Commitments and Contingencies\" in the accompanying \"Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements\" for more information.  We cannot predict or determine the impact of these inquiries on our future financial condition or results of operations.  These investigations and any other threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could be used productively on other aspects of our business.. Additionally, the Company has been named as a defendant in approximately 290 matters relating to the promotion and sale of prescription opioid pain relievers and additional suits may be filed. Refer to Legal Matters in \"NOTE 24  -  Commitments and Contingencies\" in the accompanying \"Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements\" for more information.  We cannot predict or determine the impact of these suits on our future financial condition or results of operations.  These suits and any other threatened or actual suits could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could be used productively on other aspects of our business.. 31. Any of these types of investigations, suits, or enforcement actions could affect our ability to commercially distribute our products and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations, particularly in Europe, or any failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations globally regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data. Significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. These laws apply to transfers of information among our affiliates, as well as to transactions we enter into with third party vendors. For example, the European Union adopted a comprehensive General Data Privacy Regulation (GDPR) in May 2016 that will replace the current EU Data Protection Directive and related country-specific legislation. The GDPR will become fully effective in May 2018, and requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Failure to comply with GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. Complying with the enhanced obligations imposed by the GDPR may result in significant costs to our business and require us to revise certain of our business practices. In addition, legislators and regulators in the U.S. are proposing new and more robust cybersecurity rules in light of the recent broad-based cyberattacks at a number of companies.. These and similar initiatives around the world could increase the cost of developing, implementing or securing our servers and require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, adding to our IT and compliance costs. In addition, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. The enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, regulations, or future enforcement actions or investigations could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability.. Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business, especially our product development, manufacturing and distribution capabilities.. All pharmaceutical companies, including Allergan, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving government regulation.  For the U.S., this is principally administered by the FDA, but is also administered by the DEA and state government agencies, as well as by varying regulatory agencies in foreign countries where products or product candidates are being manufactured and/or marketed.  The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and regulations, and similar foreign statutes and regulations, govern or influence the development, testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution and import/ export of our products.  Foreign regulatory authorities impose similar requirements focused on drug safety and effectiveness.  Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval has been and will continue to be increasingly difficult, time - consuming and costly.  In addition, changes in applicable federal, state and foreign laws and regulations or the implementation of new laws and regulations could affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.  There is currently the potential for regulatory changes adverse to our business due to recent uncertainty related to the direction of U.S. regulatory policy related to the pharmaceutical industry.. Once regulatory approval has been obtained, agencies continue to have substantial authority to require additional testing, perform inspections, change product labeling based on post-marketing safety information or mandate withdrawals of our products.  Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially - imposed sanctions.  These sanctions may include, among others, untitled letters, warning letters, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties, injunctions, debarment, product seizure or detention, product recalls and total or partial suspension of production, sale and promotion.  In addition, we may voluntarily elect to recall or restrict the use of a product.  Any recall or restriction could divert managerial and financial resources and might harm our reputation.. Under these statutes and regulations, we are subject to periodic inspection of our facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of our products by the FDA and similar ex - U.S. authorities, the DEA and other authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that we are in compliance with all applicable requirements.  In addition, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies conduct pre - approval and post - approval reviews and plant inspections to determine whether our systems and processes are in compliance with cGMP and other regulations.  Following such inspections, the FDA or other agency may issue observations, notices, citations and/or warning letters that could cause us to modify certain activities identified during the inspection.  FDA guidelines specify that a warning letter is issued only for violations of \"regulatory significance\" for which the failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an enforcement action.  We are also required to report adverse events associated with our products to the FDA and other regulatory authorities.  Unexpected or serious health or safety concerns could result in product liability claims, labeling changes, recalls, market withdrawals or other regulatory actions, including withdrawal of product approvals.  Adverse events and. 32. safety concerns can arise as our product candidates are evaluated in clinical trials or as our marketed products are used in clinical practice.  We are required to communicate to regulatory agencies adverse events reported to us regarding our products.. We cannot assure that the FDA inspections at any of our manufacturing sites will not result in inspectional observations at such sites, that approval of any of the pending or subsequently submitted NDAs or supplements to such applications by Allergan plc or our subsidiaries will be granted or that the FDA will not seek to impose additional sanctions against Allergan plc or any of its subsidiaries.  The range of possible sanctions includes, among others, FDA issuance of product recalls or seizures, fines, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA's review of product applications, enforcement actions, injunctions, and civil or criminal prosecution.  Any such sanctions, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.  Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals.  Similar sanctions as detailed above may be available to the FDA under a consent decree, depending upon the actual terms of such decree.  Although we have instituted internal compliance programs, if these programs do not meet regulatory agency standards or if compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could materially harm our business.  Certain of our vendors are subject to similar regulation and periodic inspections and may be operating under consent decrees.. In order to market our products in the United States and other jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements required for approval as well as maintaining registrations post-approval in every country where our products are approved.  The process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time - consuming, uncertain and costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be affected by legislative and regulatory requirement changes.  We are dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental or third - party approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and distributing our products.  There is always the chance that we will not obtain FDA or other necessary approvals, or that the rate, timing and cost of obtaining such approvals, will adversely affect our product introduction plans or impactoperations.  Additionally, any regulatory approvals we receive may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or the conditions of approval may require costly additional studies and additional safety surveillance of the product.  We may only market or promote our products for their approved indications, and our labeling, promotional activities and advertising are subject to extensive regulation and oversight.  We carry inventories of certain product(s) in anticipation of launch, and if such product(s) are not subsequently launched, we may be required to write - off the related inventory.. Our customers are subject to various regulatory requirements, including requirements of the DEA, FDA, state boards of pharmacy and city and county health regulators, among others.  These include licensing, registration, recordkeeping, security and reporting requirements. Additionally, although physicians may prescribe FDA approved products for an \"off label\" indication, we are permitted to market our products only for the indications for which they have been approved.  Some of our products are prescribed \"off label\" and the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorney or other regulatory authorities could take enforcement actions if they conclude that we or our distributors have engaged in \"off label\" marketing.  In addition, historically a number of states and the federal government have enforced licensing and anti-counterfeit drug pedigree laws which require the tracking of all transactions involving prescription drugs beginning with the manufacturer, through the supply chain, and down to the pharmacy or other health care provider dispensing or administering prescription drug products.  Therefore, manufacturers and wholesale distributors have been required to maintain records documenting the chain of custody on distribution of prescription drugs.  On November 27, 2013, the federal government enacted the Drug Quality and Security Act (\"DQSA\") amending federal requirements in regard to the licensing and tracking of prescription drugs.  Certain provisions in the law related to licensing and tracking and tracing specifically preempted prior state laws related to drug pedigrees that are inconsistent, more stringent, or in addition to the federal law.  Specifically, Title II of the DQSA, also known as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act (\"DSCSA\"), provides for creation of an electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace certain prescription drugs as they are distributed in the United States.   These amendments include requirements on licensing, tracking and tracing and other operations applicable to manufacturers and wholesale distributors of prescription drug products.  The full requirements of the DSCSA are being phased in over a ten-year period; however, in January 2015, specific product tracing requirements for manufacturers, wholesalers, repackagers and dispensers (e.g., pharmacies) of prescription drugs became effective.  Also, as of January 2015, the DSCSA required manufacturers and wholesale distributors to implement systems to identify potential \"suspect\" or \"illegitimate\" product, and take appropriate action.  The DSCSA also addresses product tracing using unique product identifiers on packaging, and requirements for standardized numerical identifiers which will take effect in the future.. In addition to government agencies that promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us, other professional societies, practice management groups, insurance carriers, physicians, private health or science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators and payers, and patient communities.  For example, the treatment practices of physicians that currently prescribe our products may change.  Recommendations by government agencies or other groups and organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies, as well as reimbursement of our products by government and private payers.  Any. 33. recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use, dosage or reimbursement of our products could materially and adversely affect our product sales, business and operating results.. The supply of APIs into Europe may be negatively affected by recent regulations promulgated by the European Union.. All APIs imported into the EU must be certified as complying with the good manufacturing practice standards established by the EU, as stipulated by the International Conference for Harmonization.  These regulations place the certification requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries.  Accordingly, the national regulatory authorities of each exporting country must:  (i) ensure that all manufacturing plants within their borders that export API into the EU comply with EU manufacturing standards and; (ii) for each API exported, present a written document confirming that the exporting plant conforms to EU manufacturing standards.  The imposition of this responsibility on the governments of the nations exporting API may cause a shortage of API necessary to manufacture our products, as certain governments may not be willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all.  A shortage in API may cause us to have to cease manufacture of certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those API manufacturers unable to export.  This could adversely affect the Company and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Federal regulation of arrangements between manufacturers of branded and generic products could adversely affect our business.. As part of the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003, companies are required to file with the FTC and the Department of Justice certain types of agreements entered into between branded and generic pharmaceutical companies related to the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic versions of branded drugs.  This requirement, as well as legislation pending in the U.S. Congress related to settlements between brand and generic drug manufacturers, could affect the manner in which brand drug manufacturers resolve intellectual property litigation and other disputes with generic pharmaceutical companies and could result generally in an increase or lengthening of litigation against pharmaceutical companies or additional investigations or proceedings by the FTC or other governmental authorities.  The impact of this requirement, the pending legislation and the potential private - party lawsuits associated with arrangements between brand and generic drug manufacturers, is uncertain and could adversely affect our business.  For example, on April 5, 2013, class actions were filed against Warner Chilcott plc and certain affiliates alleging that its 2009 patent lawsuit settlements with Watson Laboratories, Inc. and Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. related to Loestrin® 24 Fe (norethindrone acetate/ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous fumarate tablets, \"Loestrin® 24\") are unlawful.  The complaints generally allege that Watson and Lupin improperly delayed launching generic versions of Loestrin® 24 in exchange for substantial payments from Warner Chilcott in violation of federal and state antitrust and consumer protection laws.  Similar lawsuits have been filed against the Company challenging the lawfulness of patent litigation settlements related to Asacol® and Namenda®.  We have also received requests for information and Statements of Objection in connection with investigations into settlements and other arrangements between competing pharmaceutical companies by the Federal Trade Commission and the European Competition Commission.  For example, in May 2014, Forest received a Civil Investigatory Demand from the FTC requesting information about Forest's agreements with ANDA filers for Bystolic®.  Any adverse outcome of these actions or investigations, or actions or investigations related to other settlements we have entered into, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Refer to Legal Matters in \"NOTE 24  -  Commitments and Contingencies\" in the accompanying \"Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.\". Healthcare reform and a reduction in the coverage and reimbursement levels by governmental authorities, HMOs, MCOs or other third - party payers may adversely affect our business.. Demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement is available from third - party payers, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private payors.  In order to commercialize our products, we have obtained from government authorities and private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs and MCOs, recognition for coverage and reimbursement at varying levels for the cost of certain of our products and related treatments.  Third - party payers increasingly challenge pricing of pharmaceutical products.  Further, the trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S., the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs create uncertainties regarding the future levels of coverage and reimbursement for pharmaceutical products.  Such cost containment measures and healthcare reform could reduce reimbursement of our pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a reduction in the product demand.  This could affect our ability to sell our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. There have been changes in reimbursement for pharmaceuticals under various government programs, including Medicaid, and there is uncertainty surrounding implementation of legislation and regulatory changes relating to reimbursement for pharmaceuticals under Medicaid and other government programs such as Medicare and TriCare.   Reimbursement changes under such government programs may impact demand for our products and may negatively affect the price.   In addition, any reimbursement granted may not be maintained or limits on reimbursement available from third-party payers may reduce demand for, or negatively affect the price of,. 34. those products.  Additionally, various legislative and regulatory initiatives in states, including proposed modifications to reimbursements and rebates, price transparency laws, product pedigree and tracking, pharmaceutical waste \"take back\" initiatives, restrictions on co-pay assistance programs and therapeutic category generic substitution carve out legislation may also have a negative impact on the Company.  We maintain a full-time government affairs department in Washington, D.C., which is responsible for coordinating state and federal legislative activities, and places a major emphasis in terms of management time and resources to ensure a fair and balanced legislative and regulatory arena.. Although the ACA reforms have significantly impacted our business, in the coming years, it is likely that additional changes  will be made to governmental healthcare and insurance reimbursement programs. On January 20, 2017, President Donald Trump signed an executive order, which stated that it is the policy of his Administration to seek the prompt repeal of the ACA and directed executive departments and federal agencies to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of the provisions of the ACA to the maximum extent permitted by law. The Trump Administration has also issued numerous executive orders, including a \"regulatory freeze\" order issued on January 20, 2017 that temporarily postpones by 60 days the effective date of regulations that have not yet taken effect (subject to certain limitations) and a \"one in, two out\" executive order issued on January 30, 2017 that requires two rules be \"identified for elimination\" for every new one proposed. There is uncertainty with respect to the timing of any potential changes, to coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the ACA.  We cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any such reform on our business.  Additionally, the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products have recently received the attention of U.S. policymakers, the Trump Administration, and others. At this time, we cannot predict the impact of this increased scrutiny on the pricing or reimbursement of our products or pharmaceutical products generally.. Sales of our products may continue to be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the concentration of our customer base.. Our principal customers are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug store chains.  These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States.  This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains.  As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors and large chain drug stores control a significant share of the market.  We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including the Company.. The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  In addition, none of our customers are party to any long - term supply agreements with us, and thus are able to change suppliers freely should they wish to do so.. Developments after a product reaches the market may adversely affect sales of our products.. Even after regulatory approval, certain developments may decrease demand for our products, including the following:. •  the re - review of products that are already marketed;. •  new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories;. •  the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed;. •  changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and. •  greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion.. In the past, clinical trials and post - marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the Company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products.  If previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of our products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require us to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes.. In addition, certain health authorities, regulators and agencies have increased their focus on safety when assessing the balance of benefits and risks of drugs.  Some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products and are re - reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes.  There is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the U.S., on advertising, and promotion (in particular, direct - to - consumer advertising) and pricing of pharmaceutical products.  Certain regulatory changes or decisions could make it more. 35. difficult for us to sell our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. If we do not successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into our business operations, our business could be adversely affected.. We will need to successfully integrate the operations of recently and pending acquired businesses, including LifeCell and Zeltiq,  with our business operations.As a result of these and other recent and any other future or pending acquisitions, we have undergone substantial changes in a short period of time and our business has changed and broadened in size and the scope of products we offer.  Integrating the operations of multiple new businesses with that of our own is a complex, costly and time - consuming process, which requires significant management attention and resources to integrate the business practice and operations.  The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us.  Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the businesses in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations.  Prior to each acquisition, the acquired business operated independently, with its own business, corporate culture, locations, employees and systems.  There may be substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in any integration of other businesses with that of our own.. These may include:. •  distracting management from day - to - day operations;. •  potential incompatibility of corporate cultures;. •  an inability to achieve synergies as planned;. •  risks associated with the assumption of contingent or other liabilities of acquisition targets;. •  adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or customers;. •  inheriting and uncovering previously unknown issues, problems and costs from the acquired company;. •  delays between our expenditures to acquire new products, technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from those acquired products, technologies or businesses;. •  realization of assets and settlement of liabilities at amounts equal to estimated fair value as of the acquisition date of any acquisition or disposition;. •  revenue recognition related to licensing agreements and/or strategic collaborations;. •  costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures (including technology, compliance programs, financial systems, distribution and general business operations, among others); and. •  increased difficulties in managing our business due to the addition of international locations.. These risks may be heightened in cases where the majority of the former businesses' operations, employees and customers are located outside of the United States.  Any one or all of these factors may increase operating costs or lower anticipated financial performance.  Many of these factors are also outside of our control.  In addition, dispositions of certain key products, technologies and other rights may affect our business operations.. In addition, even if the operations of the businesses are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisitions, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect.  These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frames, or at all.  Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses.  All of these factors could cause a reduction to our earnings, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transactions, and negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares.. The failure to integrate the business operations of the acquired businesses successfully would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any acquisitions of businesses, technologies, or products or other significant transactions could adversely affect our relationships with employees, vendors or key customers.. We regularly review potential acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses complementary to our business.  Acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in integrating operations, personnel, technologies and products.. 36. Refer to \"If we do not successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into our business operations, our business could be adversely affected.\"  In connection with acquisitions, we could experience disruption in our business, technology and information systems, financial systems, vendors customer or employee base, including diversion of management's attention from our continuing operations, among others.  Refer to \"Certain aspects of our operations are highly dependent upon third-party service providers.\"  There is also a risk that key employees of companies that we acquire or key employees necessary to successfully commercialize technologies and products that we acquire may seek employment elsewhere, including with our competitors.  Furthermore, there may be overlap between our products or customers and the companies that we acquire that may create conflicts in relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated businesses.. If we are unsuccessful in our joint ventures and other collaborations, our operating results could suffer.. We have made substantial investments in joint ventures and other collaborations, and may use these and other methods to develop or commercialize products in the future.  These arrangements typically involve other pharmaceutical companies as partners that may be competitors of ours in certain markets.  In many instances, we will not control these joint ventures or collaborations or the commercial exploitation of the licensed products, and cannot assure you that these ventures will be profitable.  Joint venture agreements may place limitations or restrictions on marketing our products.  Any such marketing restrictions could affect future revenues and have a material adverse effect on our operations.  Our results of operations may suffer if existing joint venture or collaboration partners withdraw, or if these products are not timely developed, approved or successfully commercialized and we cannot guarantee the successful outcome of such efforts, nor that they will result in any intellectual property rights or products that inure to our benefit.. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction, integration and restructuring costs in connection with recent transactions, including our acquisitions of Zeltiq, LifeCell, and the sale of our generics business and certain other assets to Teva.. We have incurred significant transaction costs related to our acquisitions such as Zeltiq, LifeCell, and the sale of our generics business and certain other assets to Teva and may continue to incur significant transaction costs related to past acquisitions.  In addition, we may incur integration costs and restructuring costs as we integrate new businesses.  While Allergan has assumed that a certain level of transaction and coordination expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond Allergan's control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these transaction and coordination expenses.  Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately.  Although we expect that the realization of benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses may offset these transaction costs, integration costs and restructuring costs over time, no assurances can be made that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all.  The failure to realize the expected benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, as a result of acquiring businesses, technologies or products, or entering into other significant transactions, we may experience significant charges to earnings for merger and related expenses.  These costs may include substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants, advisors, consultants and severance and other closure costs associated with regulator - mandated divestitures and the elimination of duplicate or discontinued products, operations and facilities.  Charges that we may incur in connection with acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods.. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate.. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year for a number of reasons.  As a result, we believe that period - to - period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and these comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.  Our operating results and financial condition are also subject to fluctuation from all of the risks described throughout this section.  These fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions.. Our debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations.  Any refinancing of this debt could be at significantly higher interest rates.. Our indebtedness and other financial obligations could:. •  impair our ability to obtain financing or additional debt in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;. •  impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us;. •  have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and affirmative and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of a failure that is not cured or waived;. 37. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow for interest payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionally less debt.. Additionally, certain of our financing agreements may contain cross - default or other similar provisions whereby a default under one financing agreement could result in a default under our other financing agreements.. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other financial obligations such as planned dividends, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity capital or sell our assets.  We might then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell our assets on satisfactory terms, if at all.  Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at significantly higher interest rates, and/or incur significant transaction fees.  Refer to \"NOTE 16  -  Long-Term Debt and Capital Leases\" for a detailed discussion of our outstanding indebtedness.. Significant balances of intangible assets, including product rights and goodwill acquired, are subject to impairment testing and may result in impairment charges, which will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. A significant amount of our total assets is related to acquired intangibles and goodwill.  As of December 31, 2017, the carrying value of our product rights and other intangible assets was $54,648.3 million and the carrying value of our goodwill was $49,862.9 million.. Our product rights are stated at cost, less accumulated amortization.  We determine original fair value and amortization periods for product rights based on our assessment of various factors impacting estimated useful lives and cash flows of the acquired products.  Such factors include the product's position in its life cycle, the existence or absence of like products in the market, various other competitive and regulatory issues and contractual terms.  Significant adverse changes to any of these factors require us to perform an impairment test on the affected asset and, if evidence of impairment exists, require us to take an impairment charge with respect to the asset.  For assets that are not impaired, we may adjust the remaining useful lives.  Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our other significant intangible assets include acquired core technology and customer relationships, which are intangible assets with definite lives, and our acquired IPR&D intangible products, acquired in recent business acquisitions, which are intangible assets with indefinite lives.. Our acquired core technology and customer relationship intangible assets are stated at cost, less accumulated amortization.  We determined the original fair value of our other intangible assets by performing a discounted cash flow analysis, which is based on our assessment of various factors.  Such factors include existing operating margins, the number of existing and potential competitors, product pricing patterns, product market share analysis, product approval and launch dates, the effects of competition, customer attrition rates, consolidation within the industry and generic product lifecycle estimates.  Our other intangible assets with definite lives are tested for impairment when there are significant changes to any of these factors.  If evidence of impairment exists, we are required to take an impairment charge with respect to the impaired asset.  Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Goodwill and our IPR&D intangible assets are tested for impairment annually, or when events occur or circumstances change that could potentially reduce the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset.  Impairment testing compares the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset to its carrying amount.  A goodwill or IPR&D impairment, if any, would be recorded in operating income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We may need to raise additional funds in the future which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.. We may consider issuing additional debt or equity securities in the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to refinance existing debt, or for general corporate purposes.  If we issue equity, convertible preferred equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing shareholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing shareholders.  If we incur additional debt, it may increase our leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity capitalization, requiring us to pay additional interest expenses and potentially lowering our credit ratings.  We may not be able to market such issuances on favorable terms, or at all, in which case, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements.. 38. The loss of our key personnel could cause our business to suffer.. The success of our present and future operations will depend, to a significant extent, upon the experience, abilities and continued services of key personnel.  For example, although we have other senior management personnel, a significant loss of the services of Brent Saunders, our Chief Executive Officer, or other senior executive officers without having or hiring a suitable successor, could cause our business to suffer.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel.  We have entered into employment agreements with certain of our senior executive officers but such agreements do not guarantee that our senior executive officers will remain employed by us for a significant period of time, or at all.  We do not carry key - employee life insurance on any of our officers.. Substantial amounts of our information concerning our products, customers, employees and ongoing business are stored digitally and are subject to threats of theft, exposure, tampering, or other intrusions.. We collect and maintain information in digital form that is necessary to conduct our business, and we are increasingly dependent upon information technology systems, devices, infrastructure and data.  This digital information includes, but is not limited to, confidential and proprietary information as well as personal information regarding our customers and employees.  We also rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our businesses. Data maintained in digital form is subject to the risk of intrusion, exposure, tampering and theft.  Cyber attacks are increasing in frequency, sophistication and intensity.  Such attacks are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage) and expertise, including organized criminal groups, \"hacktivists,\" nation-states and others.  Cyber attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware, denial of service attacks, worms, social engineering and other means to affect service reliability and threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability.  We have established physical, electronic, and organizational measures to safeguard and secure our systems to prevent a data compromise, and rely on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for the processing, transmission and storage of digital information.  However, the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become increasingly more sophisticated.  Despite our efforts, the possibility of a future data compromise cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with intrusion, exposure, tampering, and theft remain.  We maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. Data privacy or security breaches by employees or others may pose a risk that data, including intellectual property or personal information, may be exposed to unauthorized individuals or to the public.  In addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties when it is necessary to pursue our business objectives.  While we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and, where appropriate, monitor the protections employed by these third parties, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties may be compromised.  If our data systems are compromised, our business operations may be impaired, we may lose profitable opportunities or the value of those opportunities may be diminished, and we may lose revenue because of unlicensed use of our intellectual property.  If personal information of our customers or employees is misappropriated, our reputation with our customers and employees may be injured resulting in loss of business and/or morale, and we may incur costs to remediate possible injury to our customers and employees or be required to pay fines or take other action with respect to judicial or regulatory actions arising out of such incidents.. Our business will continue to expose us to risks of environmental liabilities.. Our product and API development programs, manufacturing processes and distribution logistics involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds in our owned and leased facilities.  As a result, we are subject to numerous and increasingly stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous materials and the discharge of pollutants into the air and water.  Our programs and processes expose us to risks that an accidental contamination could result in (i) our noncompliance with such environmental laws and regulations and (ii) regulatory enforcement actions or claims for personal injury and property damage against us.  If an accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines.  The substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.  In addition, environmental permits and controls are required for some of our operations, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by the issuing authorities.  Any modification, revocation or non - renewal of our environmental permits could have a material adverse effect on our ongoing operations, business and financial condition.  Our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase in the future as a result of changes in environmental laws and regulations or increased development or manufacturing activities at any of our facilities.. 39. Our foreign operations may become less attractive if political and diplomatic relations between the United States and any country where we conduct business operations deteriorates.. The relationship between the United States and the foreign countries where we conduct business operations may weaken over time.  Changes in the state of the relations between any such country and the United States are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our future operations.  This could lead to a decline in our profitability.  Any meaningful deterioration of the political, economic and diplomatic relations between the United States and the relevant country could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Our global operations expose us to risks and challenges associated with conducting business internationally.. We operate on a global basis with offices or activities in Europe, Africa, Asia, South America, Australia and North America.  We face several risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations.  These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements; labor relations laws; tax laws; competition regulations; import and trade restrictions; economic sanctions; export requirements; U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; the UK Bribery Act 2010; and other local laws that prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials or certain payments or remunerations to customers.  Given the high level of complexity of these laws there is a risk that some provisions may be breached by us, for example through fraudulent or negligent behavior of individual employees, our failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements, or otherwise.  Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, requirements to obtain export licenses, cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, implementation of compliance programs, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business.  Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results.  Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these challenges.  Further, certain of our employees, including employees located in certain jurisdictions in Canada, Europe and Asia, are represented by collective bargaining or other labor agreements or arrangements that provide bargaining or other rights to employees.  Such employment rights require us to expend greater time and expense in making changes to employees' terms of employment or carrying out staff reductions.  In addition, any national or other labor disputes in these regions could result in a work stoppage or strike by our employees that could delay or interrupt our ability to supply products and conduct operations.  Due to the nature of these collective bargaining agreements, we will have no control over such work stoppages or strikes by such employees, and a strike may occur even if the employees do not have any grievances against us.  Any interruption in manufacturing or operations could interfere with our business and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues.. In addition to the foregoing, engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including:. •  longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;. •  political and economic instability or sanctions in areas in which we operate;. •  potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, customs charges, bureaucratic requirements and other trade barriers;. •  regulations related to customs and import/export matters (including sanctions);. •  tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws;. •  challenges in collecting accounts receivable from customers in the jurisdictions in which we operate;. •  complying with laws, rules and regulations relating to the manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products in the jurisdictions in which we do or will operate;. •  operating under regulations in jurisdictions related to obtaining eligibility for government or private payor reimbursement for our products at the wholesale/retail level;. •  competition from local, regional and international competitors;. •  difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations, including cultural and language differences and additional employment regulations, union workforce negotiations and potential disputes in the jurisdictions in which we operate;. •  difficulties associated with compliance with a variety of laws and regulations governing international trade, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. 40. •  difficulties protecting or procuring intellectual property rights; and. •  fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. These factors or any combination of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our ordinary share dividend policy is subject to change and could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares.. Our ordinary share dividend policy is based upon our Board of Directors' current assessment of our business and the environment in which we operate.  That assessment could change based on competitive or commercial developments (which could, for example, increase our need for capital expenditures), new growth opportunities, the terms of future debt instruments, legal risks, changes in Irish corporate or tax or federal tax law and challenges to our business model. Our Board of Directors may, in its discretion, amend or repeal our dividend policy to decrease the level of dividends on our ordinary shares or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends on our ordinary shares.  The reduction or elimination of our cash dividend could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares.. Our share repurchase program may not enhance shareholder value.. Repurchases by the Company of our ordinary shares reduce the number of outstanding shares of our ordinary shares. There can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance shareholder value because the market price of our ordinary shares may decline below the levels at which we repurchased ordinary shares. Although the Company's repurchases of its shares are intended to enhance long-term shareholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the effectiveness of these repurchases.. The value of our Teva Shares could go down.. As part of the Teva Transaction we received 100.3 million Teva ordinary shares, which at the time of the closing approximated $5.0 billion in value.  Pursuant to an agreement with Teva, we were not permitted to sell the Teva Shares before August 2017.  The price of Teva ordinary shares has decreased significantly since the closing of the Teva Transaction, and also from August 2017: from $53.39 at the closing of the Teva Transaction, to $18.95 at December 29, 2017, and reaching a low of $11.23 in November of 2017.  Since November 2017, we have been engaged in sales of the Teva Shares through a variety of transactions.  As of February 13, 2018, we continue to hold approximately 40 million Teva ordinary shares.  We cannot predict the price of Teva ordinary shares and the total proceeds from the sale of the Teva Shares is likely to be less than anticipated at the closing of the Teva Transaction and may be less than the proceeds we would have received had we sold the shares at earlier or later date.. We have exposure to tax liabilities.. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non - income based taxes in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. We are subject to costs and other potential outcomes from tax audits. The Company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued.. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings in the U.S. and abroad could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\"), was enacted into law by President Trump. The TCJA makes significant changes to the U.S. taxation of our domestic and international operations. The TCJA contains a number of provisions that may adversely impact our effective tax rate or operating cash flows going forward, including:. •  The limitation on the amount of interest expense deduction available to our U.S. subsidiaries to the extent we are unable to absorb any unused interest deductions over time;. •  The \"Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax\", which requires our U.S. subsidiaries to make an alternative determination of taxable income without regard to tax deductions for certain payments to affiliates;. •  Provisions that may deny deductions for certain payments made by our U.S. subsidiaries to non-U.S. affiliates to the extent such payments are classified as \"hybrid payments\"; and. 41. •  The one-time transition tax (i.e. toll charge) on the pre-2018 earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries.  The tax is payable over eight years, but is not dependent on our future earnings and therefore may have an adverse impact on our future operating cash flow.. Many countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and organizations, have recently proposed or recommended changes to existing tax laws which could impact our effective tax rate or future tax obligations. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Sharing Project, and is expected to continue to issue guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. The European Commission has conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax legislation provides preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules. If the Company's effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of the Company's taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the Company's operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We would be adversely affected if, either based on current law or in the event of a change in law, the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") did not agree that Allergan  is a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. In addition, future changes to international tax laws not specifically related to inversions could adversely affect us.. Allergan  believes that, under current law, it is treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, because it is an Irish incorporated entity. However, the IRS may assert that Allergan should be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Under Section 7874, a corporation created or organized outside the United States (i.e., a foreign corporation) will be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes when (i) the foreign corporation directly or indirectly acquires substantially all of the assets held directly or indirectly by a U.S. corporation (including the indirect acquisition of assets of the U.S. corporation by acquiring all the outstanding shares of the U.S. corporation), (ii) the shareholders of the acquired U.S. corporation hold at least 80% (by either vote or value) of the shares of the foreign acquiring corporation after the acquisition by reason of holding shares in the U.S. acquired corporation (including the receipt of the foreign corporation's shares in exchange for the U.S. corporation's shares) and (iii) the foreign corporation's \"expanded affiliated group\" does not have substantial business activities in the foreign corporation's country of organization or incorporation relative to such expanded affiliated group's worldwide activities. For purposes of Section 7874, multiple acquisitions of U.S. corporations by a foreign corporation, if treated as part of a plan or series of related transactions, may be treated as a single acquisition. If multiple acquisitions of U.S. corporations are treated as a single acquisition, all shareholders of the acquired U.S. corporations would be aggregated for purposes of the test set forth above concerning such shareholders holding at least 80% (by either vote or value) of the shares of the foreign acquiring corporation after the acquisitions by reason of holding shares in the acquired U.S. corporations.. Allergan believes that the test set forth above to treat Allergan as a foreign corporation was satisfied in connection with the Warner Chilcott Acquisition, the Forest Acquisition and the Allergan Acquisition. However, the law and Treasury regulations promulgated under Section 7874 are somewhat unclear, and thus it cannot be assured that the IRS will agree that the ownership requirements to treat Allergan as a foreign corporation were met in the Warner Chilcott Acquisition, the Forest Acquisition and/or the Allergan Acquisition, and the IRS may assert that, even though the Allergan Acquisition is a separate transaction from the Warner Chilcott Acquisition and the Forest Acquisition, the Allergan Acquisition should be integrated with the Warner Chilcott Acquisition and the Forest Acquisition as a single transaction. In the event the IRS were to prevail with such assertion, Allergan would be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes and significant adverse tax consequences would result for Allergan.. Even if Allergan is respected as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, Allergan might be adversely impacted by recent proposals that have aimed to make other changes in the taxation of multinational corporations. For example, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has created an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. As a result, the tax laws in the United States, Ireland and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect Allergan and its affiliates (including Legacy Allergan and its affiliates).. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We do business and generate sales in numerous countries outside the United States.  The Company has also entered and will from time to time enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowing, hedging or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure.  As such, foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations.  Some of our operating expenses are incurred in non - U.S. dollar currencies.  The appreciation of non - U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar could increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition.. 42. A failure of our internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our business or share price.. The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.  An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.  Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.  Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation or adversely affect the market price of the Allergan plc Ordinary Shares.. For example, in the year ended December 31, 2016, management concluded that there was a material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting as it did not maintain effective controls to appropriately assess the tax implications of certain transactions between our subsidiaries. This control deficiency did not result in a material misstatement of our current or prior period consolidated financial statements. However, this control deficiency could have resulted in a misstatement to the income tax accounts and disclosures, which would have resulted in a material misstatement to the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, management previously concluded that this control deficiency constituted a material weakness, which has since been remediated. See Item 9A - CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.. We are incorporated in Ireland, and Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to, or otherwise adversely affect, our shareholders.. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States.  As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act 2014 (the \"Companies Act\").  The Companies Act and other relevant aspects of Irish law differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors.  For example, under Irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only.  As a result, shareholders of Irish companies do not have the right to bring an action against the directors or officers of a company, except in limited circumstances.  In addition, depending on the circumstances, you may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under Irish law as a result of your acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of our ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, Irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax and capital acquisitions tax.. As a result of different shareholder voting requirements in Ireland relative to laws in effect in certain states in the United States, we may have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management than companies organized in the United States.. Under Irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by our articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders.  Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders where shares are being issued for cash consideration but allows shareholders to disapply such statutory preemption rights either in our articles of association or by way of special resolution. Such disapplication can either be generally applicable or be in respect of a particular allotment of shares.  Accordingly, our articles of association contain, as permitted by Irish company law, provisions authorizing the board to issue new shares, and to disapply statutory preemption rights.  The authorization of the directors to issue shares and the disapplication of statutory preemption rights must both be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years, and we cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities.. We are an Irish company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or certain of our officers and directors.. We are incorporated in Ireland and a substantial portion of our assets are located in jurisdictions outside the United States.  In addition, some of our officers and directors reside outside the United States, and some or all of their respective assets are or may be located in jurisdictions outside of the United States.  Therefore, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process against us or such officers or directors or to enforce against us or them judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws.. 43. There is no treaty between Ireland and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments.  The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be recognized and deemed enforceable in Ireland:. •  the judgment must be for a definite monetary sum;. •  the judgment must be final and conclusive and the decree final and unalterable in the court which pronounces it; and. •  the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction.. An Irish court will also refuse to recognize or enforce a foreign judgment obtained by fraud, or if to enforce the judgment would violate Irish public policy or breach natural or constitutional justice.  Further, an Irish court may not recognize or enforce a judgment that is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment, and may stay recognition and enforcement proceedings, if concurrent proceedings are in being elsewhere. Further, as a matter of public policy, an Irish Court will not recognize or enforce foreign revenue, penal or other public laws, either directly or through the recognition and enforcement of a foreign judgment. Judgments of U.S. courts of liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws may not be recognized or enforced by Irish courts if deemed to be contrary to public policy in Ireland.. A transfer of our ordinary shares, other than by means of the transfer of book - entry interests in the Depository Trust Company (\"DTC\"), may be subject to Irish stamp duty, as may a transfer of preference shares.. Transfers of our ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the DTC will not be subject to Irish stamp duty.  However, if you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through the DTC, any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired).  Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. Transfers of preference shares, including our mandatory convertible preferred shares, may also be subject to Irish stamp duty at the same rate.  The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of your shares.. In certain limited circumstances, dividends we pay may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax.. In certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of any dividends paid on our ordinary shares or our preference shares.  A number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the U.S. and shareholders resident in certain countries may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax.. Shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their shares through the DTC will not be subject to dividend withholding tax provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the U.S. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us).  U.S. resident shareholders in Allergan that hold their shares outside of the DTC and shareholders resident in certain other countries (irrespective of whether they hold their shares through the DTC or outside the DTC) will not be subject to dividend withholding tax provided the beneficial owners of such shares have furnished completed and valid dividend withholding tax forms or an IRS Form 6166, as appropriate, to our transfer agent or their brokers (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to our transfer agent).  However, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of your shares.. Dividends received by Irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to Irish income tax.. Shareholders entitled to an exemption from Irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from us will not be subject to Irish income tax in respect of those dividends, unless they have some connection with Ireland other than their shareholding in us (for example, they are resident in Ireland).  Shareholders who are not resident nor ordinarily resident in Ireland but who are not entitled to an exemption from Irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on those dividends which suffer dividend withholding tax.. Allergan's Ordinary Shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to Irish capital acquisitions tax.. Irish capital acquisitions tax (\"CAT\") could apply to a gift or inheritance of ordinary shares or our preference shares, including our mandatory convertible preferred shares, irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties.  This is because Company Ordinary Shares and preference shares are regarded as property situated in Ireland.  The person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for CAT.  Gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from CAT.  Children. 44. have a tax-free threshold of \200310,000 in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents.  Certain other tax-free thresholds may also apply."
