[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are the important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could make our actual results differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements.. Risks Related to Our Business. We participate in markets that are competitive, and our competitors' actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business operates in competitive markets. We compete against other existing or new global manufacturers of transmissions for commercial vehicles on the basis of product performance, quality, price, distribution capability and service in addition to other factors. In addition, we compete with manufacturers developing alternative technologies, including electric drivetrains, that may or may not require a transmission. Actions by our competitors could lead to downward pressure on prices and/or a decline in our market share, either or both of which could adversely affect our results.. In addition, some of our customers or future customers are OEMs that manufacture or could in the future manufacture transmissions for their own products. Despite their transmission manufacturing capabilities, our existing OEM customers have chosen to purchase certain transmissions from us due to customer demand, resulting from the quality of our transmission products and in order to reduce fixed costs, eliminate production risks and maintain company focus. However, we cannot be certain these customers will continue to purchase our products in the future. Increased levels of production insourcing by these customers could result from a number of factors, such as shifts in our customers' business strategies, acquisition by a customer of another transmission manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign countries. As a result, these OEMs may use transmissions produced internally or by another manufacturer and no longer choose to purchase transmissions from us. A significant reduction in the level of external sourcing of transmission production by our OEM customers could significantly impact our net sales and cash flows and, accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Certain of our end users operate in highly cyclical industries, which can result in uncertainty and significantly impact the demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Some of the markets in which we operate, including energy, mining, construction, distribution and motorhomes, exhibit a high degree of cyclicality. Decisions to purchase our transmissions are largely a result of the performance of these and other industries we serve. If demand for output in these industries decreases, the demand for our products will likely decrease. Demand in these industries is impacted by numerous factors including prices of commodities, rates of infrastructure spending, housing starts, real estate equity values, interest rates, consumer spending, fuel costs, energy demands, municipal spending and commercial construction, among others. Increases or decreases in these variables globally may significantly impact the demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to accurately predict demand, we may be unable to meet our customers' needs, resulting in the loss of potential sales, or we may manufacture excess products, resulting in increased inventories and overcapacity in our production facilities, increasing our unit production cost and decreasing our operating margins.. Volatility in and disruption to the global economic environment and changes in the regulatory and business environments in which we operate may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The commercial vehicle industry as a whole has been more adversely affected by volatile economic conditions than many other industries, as the purchase or replacement of commercial vehicles, which are durable items, can be deferred for many reasons, including reduced spending by end users. Future changes in the regulatory and business environments in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to sell our products or source materials needed to manufacture our products. Furthermore, financial instability or bankruptcy at any of our suppliers or customers could disrupt our ability to manufacture our products and impair our ability to collect receivables, any or all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some of our customers and suppliers may experience serious cash flow problems and, thus, may find it difficult to obtain financing, if financing is available at all. As a result, our customers' need for and ability to purchase our products or services may decrease, and our suppliers may increase their prices, reduce their output or change their terms of sale. Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services, or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our suppliers may not be successful in generating sufficient. 14. Table of Contents. sales or securing alternate financing arrangements, and therefore may no longer be able to supply goods and services to us. In that event, we would need to find alternate sources for these goods and services, and there is no assurance we would be able to find such alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all. Any such disruption in our supply chain could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and deliver our products on a timely basis, and thereby affect our results of operations.. Our long-term growth prospects and results of operations may be impaired if the rate of adoption of fully-automatic transmissions in commercial vehicles outside North America does not increase.. Our long-term growth strategy depends in part on an increased rate of automaticity outside North America. As part of that strategy, we have established manufacturing facilities in India and Hungary. We have also dedicated significant human resources to serve markets where we anticipate increased adoption of automaticity, including China, India, Brazil and Russia. However, manual transmissions remain the market leader outside North America and there can be no assurance that adoption of automatic transmissions will increase. Factors potentially impacting adoption of automatic transmissions outside of North America include the large existing installed base of manual transmissions, customer preferences for manual transmissions, commercial vehicle OEM vertical integration into manual transmission and AMT manufacturing, increased competition from AMTs, DCTs, electric driving systems, and other alternative transmission technologies and failure to further develop the Allison brand. If the rate of adoption of fully-automatic transmissions does not increase as we have anticipated, our long-term growth prospects and results of operations may be impaired.. Our sales are concentrated among our top five OEM customers and the loss or consolidation of any one of these customers or the discontinuation of particular vehicle models for which we are a significant supplier could reduce our net sales and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We have in the past and may in the future derive a significant portion of our net sales from a relatively limited number of OEM customers. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our top five customers accounted for approximately 49%, 52% and 52% of our net sales, respectively. Our top three customers, Daimler AG, PACCAR Inc. and Volvo Group, accounted for approximately 20%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of our net sales during 2017. The loss of, or consolidation of, any one of these customers, or a significant decrease in business from, one or more of these customers could harm our business. In addition, the discontinuation of particular vehicle models for which we are a significant supplier could reduce our net sales and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may not be successful in introducing our new products and technologies and responding to customer needs.. We currently have new products and technologies under development. The development of new products and technologies is difficult and the timetable for commercial release is uncertain, and we may not be successful in introducing our new products and responding to customer needs. In addition, it often takes significant time, in some cases multiple fleet buy cycles, before customers gain experience with new products and technologies and those new products and technologies become widely-accepted by the market, if at all. If we do not adequately anticipate the changing needs of our customers by developing and introducing new and effective products and technologies on a timely basis, our competitive position and prospects could be harmed. If our competitors are able to respond to changing market demands and adopt new technologies more quickly than we do, demand for our products could decline, our competitive position could be harmed, and we will not be able to recoup a return on our development investments. Moreover, changing customer demands as well as evolving safety and environmental standards could require us to adapt our products and technologies to address such changes. As a result, in the future we may experience delays in the introduction of some or all of our new products or modifications or enhancements of existing products. Furthermore, there may be production delays due to unanticipated technological setbacks, which may, in turn, delay the release of new products to our end users. If we experience significant delays in production, our net sales and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Our success depends on continued research and development efforts, the outcome of which is uncertain.. Our success depends on our ability to improve the efficiency and performance of our transmissions, and we invest significant resources in research and development in order to do so. Nevertheless, the research and development process is time-consuming and costly, and offers uncertain results. We may not be able through our research and development efforts to keep pace with improvements in transmission-related technology of our competitors, and licenses for technologies that would enable us to keep pace with our competitors may not be available on commercially reasonable terms if at all. Finally, our research and development efforts, and generally our ability to introduce improved products in the marketplace, may be constrained by the patents and other intellectual property rights of competitors and others.. 15. Table of Contents. Our sales to the Defense end market are to government entities and contractors for the U.S. and foreign governments, and the loss of a significant number of our contracts, or budgetary declines or future reductions or changes in spending by the U.S. or foreign governments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our net sales to the Defense end market are derived from contracts (revenue arrangements) with agencies of, and prime system contractors for, the U.S. government and foreign governments. If a significant number of our DOD contracts and subcontracts are simultaneously delayed or cancelled for budgetary, performance or other reasons, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Approximately 5%, or $117 million, of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 were from our Defense end market.. Our future financial results may be adversely affected by:. <U+0095>   declines in, or uncertainty regarding, U.S. or foreign government defense budgets;. <U+0095>   curtailment of the U.S. government's use of technology or other services and product providers, including curtailment due to government budget reductions, future government shutdowns and related fiscal matters;. <U+0095>   geopolitical developments that affect demand for our products and services; and. <U+0095>   technological developments that impact purchasing decisions or our competitive position.. Increases in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of raw materials or components used in our products could harm our business and profitability.. Our products contain various raw materials, including corrosion-resistant steel, non-ferrous metals such as aluminum and nickel, and precious metals such as platinum and palladium. We use raw materials directly in manufacturing and in transmission components that we purchase from our suppliers. We generally purchase components with significant raw material content on the open market. The prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. Volatility in the prices of raw materials such as steel, aluminum and nickel could increase the cost of manufacturing our products. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even in the event that increased costs can be passed through to customers, our gross margin percentages would decline. Additionally, our suppliers are also subject to fluctuations in the prices of raw materials and may attempt to pass all or a portion of such increases on to us. In the event they are successful in doing so, our margins would decline.. In 2017, approximately 75% of our total spending on components was sourced from approximately 38 suppliers, some of which are the single source for such components. All of the suppliers from which we purchase materials and components used in our business are fully validated suppliers, meaning the suppliers' manufacturing processes and inputs have been validated under a production part approval process (\"PPAP\"). Furthermore, there are only a limited number of suppliers for certain of the materials used in our business, such as corrosion-resistant steel. As a result, our business is subject to the risk of additional price fluctuations and periodic delays in the delivery of our materials or components if supplies from a validated supplier are interrupted and a new supplier, if one is available, must be validated or materials and components must be purchased from a supplier without a completed PPAP, which could increase our risk of purchasing non-conforming components. Any such price fluctuations or delays, if significant, could harm our profitability or operations. In addition, the loss of a supplier could result in significant material cost increases or reduce our production capacity. We also cannot guarantee we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. An increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials or components that may be caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as natural disasters, power outages, labor strikes, or the like could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we have agreements with many of our customers that we will pass such price increases through to them, such contracts may be canceled by our customers and/or we may not be able to recoup the costs of such price increases. Additionally, if we are unable to continue to purchase our required quantities of raw materials on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, if we are unable to maintain or enter into purchasing contracts for commodities, or if delivery of materials from suppliers is delayed or non-conforming, our operations could be disrupted or our profitability could be adversely impacted.. 16. Table of Contents. Our international operations, in particular our emerging markets, are subject to various risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to certain risks associated with doing business internationally, particularly in emerging markets. Outside-North America net sales represented approximately 21% of our net sales for 2017. Most of our operations are in the U.S., but we also have manufacturing and customization facilities in India and Hungary with a services agreement with Opel Szentgotthard Automotive Manufacturing Ltd., formerly GM-PTH, and customization capability in Brazil, The Netherlands, China and Japan. Further, we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the U.S., which could exacerbate the risks set forth below. Our international operations are subject to, without limitation, the following risks:. <U+0095>   the burden of complying with multiple and possibly conflicting laws and any unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. <U+0095>   foreign currency exchange controls, import and export restrictions and tariffs, including restrictions promulgated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and other trade protection regulations and measures;. <U+0095>   political risks, including increased trade protectionism and risks of loss due to civil disturbances, acts of terrorism, acts of war, guerilla activities and insurrection;. <U+0095>   unstable economic, financial and market conditions and increased expenses as a result of inflation or higher interest rates;. <U+0095>   difficulties in enforcement of third-party contractual obligations and intellectual property rights and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;. <U+0095>   difficulty in staffing and managing international operations and the application of foreign labor regulations;. <U+0095>   differing local product preferences and product requirements;. <U+0095>   fluctuations in currency exchange rates to the extent that our assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the country where we operate;. <U+0095>   potentially adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws, requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; and. <U+0095>   exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions.. Any one of these factors could materially adversely affect our sales of products or services to international customers or harm our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our international operations require us to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions.. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions, and our failure to comply with these rules and regulations may expose us to liabilities. These laws and regulations may apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the FCPA. The FCPA prohibits U.S. companies and their officers, directors, employees and agents acting on their behalf from corruptly offering, promising, authorizing or providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. The FCPA also requires companies to make and keep books, records and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets and to maintain a system of adequate internal accounting controls. As part of our business, we deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have elevated levels of corruption. As a result of the above activities, we are exposed to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws. Violations of these legal requirements are punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions, debarment from government contracts as well as other remedial measures. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel in complying with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate these legal requirements, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. Sales of our electric hybrid-propulsion systems have been, and are expected to continue to be, negatively impacted by external factors, including fuel price trends, regulatory requirements, alternative technologies and governmental entities electing not to subsidize the purchase of such products by end users.. External factors, including diesel and natural gas fuel price trends, emissions and on-board diagnostics regulatory requirements, availability of compatible engine calibrations from engine manufacturers and alternative emerging green technologies, have negatively impacted, and are expected to continue to negatively impact, sales of our electric hybrid-propulsion systems. In addition, the sales of our electric hybrid-propulsion systems for use in transit buses have been, and are expected to continue to be, negatively impacted by governmental entities electing not to subsidize the purchase of such products by end users. In 2017, we derived approximately 3% of our net sales from the sale of electric hybrid-propulsion systems for use in transit buses to city, state and federal governmental end users. Such end users may be eligible to receive certain subsidies as a result of their purchase of vehicles using electric hybrid-propulsion systems. While we do not directly receive these subsidies, if any of the subsidizing entities elect to curtail such subsidies to end users for any reason including governmental budget reductions and related fiscal matters, failure of our electric hybrid technology to qualify for such subsidies or redundancy by alternative technologies created by our competitors, our sales from our electric hybrid-propulsion systems may be negatively impacted. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we experienced an increase in revenue generated from electric hybrid propulsion systems for use in transit buses of 16%. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we experienced decreases in revenue generated from electric hybrid-propulsion systems for use in transit buses of 16% and 22%, respectively.. Any events that impact our brand name, including if the products we manufacture or distribute are found to be defective, could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause us to incur significant costs and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We face exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products has, or is alleged to have, resulted in injury, death or other adverse effects. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, but we cannot be assured that we will be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or that any such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition or prospects. If one of our products is determined to be defective, we may face substantial warranty costs and may be responsible for significant costs associated with a product recall or a redesign. We have had defect and warranty issues associated with certain of our products in the past, and we cannot give assurance similar product defects will not occur in the future. See NOTE 9 \"Product Warranty Liabilities\" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details regarding these warranty issues.. Furthermore, our business depends on the strong brand reputation we have developed. In addition to the risk of defective products, we also face significant risks in our efforts to penetrate new markets, where we have limited brand recognition. We also rely on our reputation with end users of our transmissions to specify our transmissions when purchasing new vehicles from our OEM customers. In the event we are not able to maintain or enhance our brand in these new markets or our reputation is damaged in our existing markets as a result of product defects or recalls, we may face difficulty in maintaining our pricing positions with respect to some of our products or experience reduced demand for our products, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Additionally, we license the \"Allison Transmission\" name and certain related trademarks to third parties. If any third party uses the trade name \"Allison Transmission\" in ways that adversely affect such trade name or trademark, our reputation could suffer damage, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our brand and reputation are dependent on the continued participation and level of service of our numerous independent distributors and dealers.. We work with a network of approximately 1,400 independent distributors and dealers that provide post-sale service and parts and support equipment. Because we depend on the pull-through demand generated by end users for our products, any actions by the independent distributors or dealers, which are not in our control, may harm our reputation and damage the brand loyalty among our customer base. In the event that we are not able to maintain our brand reputation because of the actions of our independent distributors and dealers, we may face difficulty in maintaining our pricing positions with respect to some of our products or have reduced demand for our products, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if a significant number of independent dealers were to terminate their contracts, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 18. Table of Contents. We are subject to cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by Allison or third-party vendors or suppliers.. We are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems, including business, financial, accounting, product development, data processing, or manufacturing processes, owned by us or our third-party vendors or suppliers; (ii) facility security systems, owned by us or our third-party vendors or suppliers; and/or (iii) transmission control modules or other in-product technology, owned by us or our third-party vendors or suppliers. Such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise personally identifiable information of employees, customers, suppliers, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; and/or affect the performance of transmission control modules or other in-product technology. A cyber incident could be caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, including hacking, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception. The techniques used by third parties change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. A significant cyber incident could impact production capability, harm our reputation and/or subject us to regulatory actions or litigation, any of which could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 59% of our U.S. employees, representing over 50% of our total employees, were represented by the UAW and are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. In December 2017, we reached an agreement on a new six-year collective bargaining agreement with UAW Local 933, which is effective through November 2023.. In addition to our unionized work force, many of our direct and indirect customers and vendors have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these customers or vendors or their other suppliers could result in slowdowns or closings of assembly plants that use our products or supply materials for use in the production of our products. Organizations responsible for shipping our products may also be impacted by strikes. Any interruption in the delivery of our products could reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on us.. In general, we consider our labor relations with all of our employees to be good. However, in the future we may be subject to labor unrest. If strikes, work stoppages or lock-outs at our facilities or at the facilities of our vendors or customers occur or continue for a long period of time, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. In the event of a catastrophic loss of our key manufacturing facility, our business would be adversely affected.. While we manufacture our products in several facilities and maintain insurance covering our facilities, including business interruption insurance, a catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of one of our manufacturing facilities due to accident, labor issues, weather conditions, acts of war, political unrest, terrorist activity, natural disaster or otherwise, whether short- or long-term, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our most significant concentration of manufacturing is around our corporate headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana, where we produce approximately 90% of our transmissions. In addition to our Indianapolis manufacturing facilities, we currently operate manufacturing facilities in both Szentgotthard, Hungary and Chennai, India. In the event of a disruption at the Indianapolis facilities, our other facilities may not be adequately equipped to operate at a level sufficient to compensate for the volume of production at the Indianapolis facility due to their size and the fact that they have not yet been tested for such significant increases in production volume.. We could be materially adversely affected by any failure to maintain cost controls.. We rely on our cost structure and operating discipline to achieve strong operating margins. There are many factors that could affect our ability to realize expected cost savings or achieve future cost savings that we are not able to control, including the need for unexpected significant capital expenditures; unexpected changes in commodity or component pricing, including an increase in export or import tariffs, that we are unable to pass on to our suppliers or customers and our inability to maintain efficiencies gained from our workforce optimization initiatives. Additionally, we have substantial indebtedness of approximately $2,576 million as of December 31, 2017. Our inability to maintain our cost controls could adversely impact our operating margins.. 19. Table of Contents. Many of the key patents and unpatented technology we use in our business are licensed to us, not owned by us, and our ability to use and enforce such patents and technology is restricted by the terms of the license.. Protecting our intellectual property rights is critical to our ability to compete and succeed as a company. GM has granted us an irrevocable, perpetual, royalty-free, worldwide license under a large number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications, as well as certain unpatented technology and know-how, to design, develop, manufacture, use and sell fully-automatic transmissions and H 40/50 EP electric hybrid-propulsion transit bus systems for use in certain vocational vehicles, defense vehicles and off-road products. With respect to the bulk of the intellectual property licensed to us, our license is exclusive with respect to the design, development, manufacture, use and sale of fully-automatic transmissions and H 40/50 EP electric hybrid-propulsion transit bus systems in vocational vehicles above certain weight rating thresholds, certain defense vehicles and certain off-road products. It is non-exclusive with respect to certain other products that are within the scope of the licensed patents or to which the licensed technology can be applied. We consider the patents and technology licensed under such license agreement, as a whole, to be critical to preserving our competitive position in the market. However, GM continues to own such patents and technology, and GM has the right, in the first instance, to control the maintenance, enforcement and defense of such patents and the prosecution of the licensed patent applications. In addition, our ability to sublicense our rights is limited.. We rely on unpatented technology, which exposes us to certain risks.. We currently do, and may continue in the future to, rely on unpatented proprietary technology. In such regard, we cannot be assured that any of our applications for protection of our intellectual property rights will be approved or that others will not infringe or challenge our intellectual property rights. It is possible our competitors will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology.. Although we believe the loss or expiration of any single patent would not have a material effect on our business, results of operations or financial position, there can be no assurance that any one, or more, of the patents licensed from GM, or any other intellectual property owned by or licensed to us, will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In fact, a number of the patents licensed to us by GM are set to expire in the next few years. When a patent expires, the inventions it discloses can be used freely by others. Thus, the competitive advantage that we gain from the patents licensed to us from GM will decrease over time, and a greater burden will be placed on our own research and development and licensing efforts to develop and otherwise acquire technologies to keep pace with improvements of transmission-related technology in the marketplace. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees, and into non-disclosure agreements with suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot be assured that these measures will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our ability to sustain margins on some or all of our products may be affected, which could reduce our sales and profitability. Moreover, the protection provided for our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the protection available under U.S. law.. Our pension and other post-retirement benefits funding obligations could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors.. Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense recorded for our defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement benefits (\"OPEB\"). Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\") require that income or expense for defined benefit pension plans be calculated at the annual measurement date using actuarial assumptions and calculations. These calculations reflect certain assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the capital markets, interest rates, health care inflation rates and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change these assumptions. These assumptions, along with the actual value of assets at the measurement date, will impact the calculation of pension expense for the year. Although GAAP pension expense and pension contributions are not directly related, the key economic indicators that affect GAAP pension expense also affect the amount of cash that we would contribute to our defined benefit pension plans. Because the values of these defined benefit pension plans' assets have fluctuated and will fluctuate in response to changing market conditions, the amount of gains or losses that will be recognized in subsequent periods, the impact on the funded status of the defined benefit pension plans and the future minimum required contributions, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The magnitude of such impact cannot be determined with certainty at this time. However, the effect of a one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would result in an increase in the December 31, 2017 defined benefit pension plans obligation of approximately $22 million. Likewise, a one percentage point decrease in the effective interest rate for determining defined benefit pension plans contributions would result in an increase in the minimum required contributions for 2018 of approximately $4 million. Similarly, a one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would result in an increase in the December 31, 2017 OPEB obligation of approximately $15 million. As of December 31, 2017, the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans was $7 million and the unfunded status of our OPEB plan was $102 million.. 20. Table of Contents. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations may impose significant compliance costs and liabilities on us.. We are subject to many environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water, the generation, handling and disposal of waste and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs to maintain or achieve compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Moreover, if these environmental, health and safety laws and regulations become more stringent or expand to include a larger portion of our products or our customer's products in the future, we could incur additional costs in order to ensure that our business and products comply with such regulations. In addition, we may not be successful in complying with, or the vehicle or customer OEMs to which we sell our products may choose not to comply with, such laws and regulations, which could impact our ability to sell our products in certain locations. Furthermore, if our products that are already placed in service are found to be non-compliant with certain laws, regulations and certifications, we may incur additional costs and fines. We cannot assure we are in full compliance with all environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines, penalties or enforcement actions, third-party claims for property damage and personal injury, requirements to clean up property or to pay for the costs of cleanup or regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, including the installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. Our failure to comply could also result in our failure to secure adequate insurance for our business, resulting in significant exposure, diminished ability to hedge our risks and material modifications of our business operations.. We may be subject to liability as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and similar state or foreign laws for contaminated properties that we currently own, lease or operate or that we or our predecessors have previously owned, leased or operated, and sites to which we or our predecessors sent hazardous substances. Such liability may be joint and several so that we may be liable for more than our share of any contamination, and any such liability may be determined without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. We or our predecessors have been named potentially responsible parties at contaminated sites from time to time.. We manage the remediation of historical soil and groundwater contamination at our Indianapolis, Indiana facilities under an Agreed Order of Consent with the EPA. We recorded approximately $14 million for the estimated undiscounted environmental liabilities to be paid out over 30 years, which will be adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as additional technical, regulatory or legal information becomes available. In the fourth quarter of 2016, we satisfied the financial assurance requirement under the AOC by securing a letter of credit in the amount of $15 million. See Part I, Item 1, \"Business  -  Environmental Compliance\" and Part II, Item 8, NOTE 16, \"Commitments and Contingencies\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There can be no assurances that future environmental remediation obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we occasionally evaluate alternatives with respect to our facilities, including possible dispositions or closings. Investigations undertaken in connection with these activities may lead to discoveries of contamination that must be remediated, and closings of facilities may trigger remediation requirements that are not applicable to operating facilities. We may also face lawsuits brought by third parties that either allege property damage or personal injury as a result of, or seek reimbursement for costs associated with, such contamination.. Our business and financial results may be adversely affected by government contracting risks.. We are subject to various laws and regulations applicable to parties doing business with the U.S. government, including laws and regulations governing performance of U.S. government contracts, the use and treatment of U.S. government furnished property and the nature of materials used in our products. We may be unilaterally suspended or barred from conducting business with the U.S. government, or become subject to fines or other sanctions if we are found to have violated such laws or regulations. As a result of the need to comply with these laws and regulations, we are subject to increased risks of governmental investigations, civil fraud actions, criminal prosecutions, whistleblower law suits and other enforcement actions. The laws and regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, Export Administration Regulations, the Federal Acquisition Regulation, International Traffic in Arms Regulations and regulations from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and the FCPA.. U.S. government contracts are subject to modification, curtailment or termination by the U.S. government without prior written notice, either for convenience or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. If terminated by the U.S. government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the U.S. government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. Additionally, we cannot assign prime U.S. government contracts without the prior consent of the U.S. government contracting officer, and we are required to register with the Central Contractor Registration Database. Furthermore, the U.S. government periodically audits our governmental contract costs, which could result in fines, penalties or adjustment of costs and prices under the contracts. The result of, or expiration of the statute of limitations for, such audits could have an impact on reported net income and cash flow from operations.. 21. Table of Contents. Exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. As a result of the expansion of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. We expect to generate an increasing portion of our net sales and expenses in such foreign currencies as the Japanese Yen, Euro, Indian Rupee, Brazilian Real, Chinese Yuan Renminbi, Canadian Dollar and Hungarian Forint. Although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of these and other foreign currencies, these transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. To the extent that we are unable to match net sales received in foreign currencies with expenses paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, if we generate net sales or earnings in other currencies, the conversion of such amounts into U.S. Dollars can result in an increase or decrease in the amount of our net sales or earnings. Furthermore, we sell certain of our products in our non-North American markets denominated in the U.S. Dollar. To the extent that certain of the local currencies in our non-North American markets are relatively weaker than the U.S. Dollar, whether as a result of foreign governments' influence or otherwise, we could become less price competitive, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations.. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth.. Pursuant to GAAP, we are required to assess our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets to determine if they are impaired on an annual basis, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over the useful life and are reviewed for impairment on triggering events such as events or changes in circumstances indicating that an impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill or the carrying value of the intangible assets and the fair value of the intangible assets in the period the determination is made. Disruptions to our business, end market conditions, protracted economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results may result in charges for goodwill and other asset impairments.. Our annual goodwill and trade name impairment tests for the year ended December 31, 2017 resulted in no impairment. Although our analysis regarding the fair value of goodwill and trade name indicated that they exceeded their respective carrying values, materially different assumptions regarding the future performance of our business could result in goodwill impairment losses. See NOTE 2 \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies\" and NOTE 5 \"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets\" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details.. The carrying value of long-lived assets is evaluated whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. Events or circumstances that would result in an impairment review primarily include a significant change in the use of an asset, a significant change in the projected future cash flows generated by an asset or the planned sale or disposal of an asset. The asset would be considered impaired when there is no future use planned for the asset or the future net undiscounted cash flows generated by the asset or asset group are less than its carrying value. An impairment loss would be recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds fair value and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations.. As a result of events and circumstances in the fourth quarter of 2017, we reviewed certain of our long-lived assets related to the production of the TC10 product, resulting in a $32 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2017. See NOTE 2 \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies\" and NOTE 4 \"Property, Plant and Equipment\" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details.. 22. Table of Contents. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions:. <U+0095>   authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our Board of Directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt;. <U+0095>   limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors only \"for cause\";. <U+0095>   prohibit our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders;. <U+0095>   prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. <U+0095>   provide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws;. <U+0095>   establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and. <U+0095>   require the approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of common stock to amend the bylaws and certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation.. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company that our stockholders may believe to be in their best interests. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those they desire.. 23. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, restrict our activities and affect our ability to meet our obligations.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had total indebtedness of $2,576 million and we would have been able to borrow an additional $533 million, net of $17 million of outstanding letters of credit, under the revolving portion of Allison Transmission Inc.'s (\"ATI\"), the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Senior Secured Credit Facility due 2021 (\"Revolving Credit Facility\"), less $17 million of letters of credit. As of December 31, 2017, we had no outstanding borrowings against the Revolving Credit Facility. At December 31, 2017, $1,176 million of our total indebtedness was associated with ATI's, Senior Secured Credit Facility Term B-3 Loan due 2022 (\"Term B-3 Loan\", and together with the Revolving Credit Facility, the \"Senior Secured Credit Facility\"), $1,000 million of our total indebtedness was associated with ATI's 5.0% Senior Notes due September 2024 (\"5.0% Senior Notes\") and $400 million of our total indebtedness was associated with ATI's 4.75% Senior Notes due October 2027 (\"4.75% Senior Notes\"). For a complete description of the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Facility, the 5.0% Senior Notes and the 4.75% Senior Notes, please see Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:. <U+0095>   make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness;. <U+0095>   require us to further dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes;. <U+0095>   increase our vulnerability to and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, downturns or changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. <U+0095>   restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;. <U+0095>   expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facility are subject to variable rates of interest;. <U+0095>   place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. <U+0095>   limit our ability to borrow additional funds.. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility contains a maximum total senior secured leverage ratio. The Senior Secured Credit Facility, the indenture governing the 5.0% Senior Notes and the indenture governing the 4.75% Senior Notes also contain other negative and affirmative covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with any of the covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness.. Our ability to pay regular dividends on our common stock is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by our structure and statutory restrictions and restrictions imposed by the Senior Secured Credit Facility, the indenture governing the 5.0% Senior Notes and the indenture governing the 4.75% Senior Notes as well as any future agreements.. Our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.06 per share of common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2012, increased the quarterly dividend to $0.12 per share of common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2013 and increased the quarterly dividend again to $0.15 per share of common stock beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014. However, the payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our Board of Directors deems relevant. The Senior Secured Credit Facility, the indenture governing the 5.0% Senior Notes and the indenture governing the 4.75% Senior Notes also effectively limit our ability to pay dividends. As a consequence of these limitations and restrictions, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock after price appreciation in order to generate cash flow from your investment. You may not receive a gain on your investment when you sell your common stock and you may lose the entire amount of the investment. Additionally, any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 24. Table of Contents. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make cash payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate significant operating cash flow in the future. This, to a significant extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. We cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Senior Secured Credit Facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In such circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. We cannot ensure that any such actions, if necessary, could be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. If we fail to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness or to otherwise comply with the covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we may be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation by our lenders.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facility to avoid being in default. If we or any of our subsidiaries breach the covenants under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under the Senior Secured Credit Facility, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur additional indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future because the terms of our indebtedness do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. Subject to covenant compliance and certain conditions, our indebtedness permits additional borrowing, including total borrowing up to $533 million under the Revolving Credit Facility. If new debt is added to our current debt levels and our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify.. 25. Table of Contents"
