[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider each of the risks described below relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, together with all of the other information contained in this combined report, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities.  If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Our utility business is significantly impacted by government legislation, regulation and oversight - Our utility financial condition is influenced by how regulatory authorities, including the IUB, the PSCW and FERC, establish the rates we can charge our customers, our authorized rates of return and common equity levels, and the amount of costs that may be recovered from customers.  Our ability to timely obtain rate adjustments to earn authorized rates of return depends upon timely regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and cannot be guaranteed.  In future rate reviews, IPL and WPL may not receive an adequate amount of rate relief to recover all costs and earn their authorized rates of return, rates may be reduced, rate refunds may be required, rate adjustments may not be approved on a timely basis, costs may not be otherwise recovered through rates, future rates may be temporarily frozen, and authorized rates of return on capital may be reduced.  As a result, we may experience adverse impacts on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our operations are subject to extensive regulation primarily by the IUB, the PSCW and FERC.  We are also subject to oversight and monitoring by organizations such as the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, and the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc.  The impacts on our operations include: our ability to site and construct new generating facilities and recover associated costs, such as renewable energy projects; the installation of environmental controls and the recovery of associated costs; our ability to decommission generating facilities and recover related costs and the remaining carrying value of these facilities; our ability to site, construct and recover costs for new natural gas pipelines; our ability to recover costs to upgrade our electric and gas distribution systems; the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources; our ability to purchase generating facilities and recover the costs associated therewith; our ability to sell utility assets and any conditions placed upon the sale of such assets; the rates paid to transmission operators and how those costs are recovered from customers; our ability to enter into purchased power agreements and recover the costs associated therewith; resource adequacy requirements, energy capacity standards, what forms of energy are considered when determining whether we meet those standards, and when new facilities such as IPL's Marshalltown Generating Station, WPL's West Riverside Energy Center, and IPL's and WPL's planned additional wind generation may be fully accredited with energy capacity; the allocation of expenditures by transmission companies on transmission network upgrades and our ability to recover costs associated therewith; reliability; safety; the issuance of securities; accounting matters; and transactions between affiliates.  These regulatory authorities and organizations are also empowered to impose financial penalties and other sanctions, including requirements to implement new compliance programs.  Failure to obtain approvals for any of these matters in a timely manner, or receipt of approvals with uneconomical conditions, may cause us not to pursue the construction of such projects or to record an impairment of our assets and may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. Provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act limit our ability to invest in or grow our non-utility activities and may deter potential purchasers who might be willing to pay a premium for our stock.. Our strategic plan includes large construction projects, which are subject to risks - Our strategic plan includes constructing renewable generating facilities, constructing a natural gas-fired generating facility, making other large-scale improvements to generating facilities, and large-scale additions and upgrades to our electric and gas distribution systems.  These construction projects are subject to various risks.  These risks include: the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner; adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions; changes in applicable laws or regulations; changes in costs of materials, equipment, commodities, fuel or labor; delays caused by construction accidents or injuries; shortages in materials, equipment and qualified labor; changes to the scope or timing of the projects; general contractors or subcontractors not performing as required under their contracts; the inability to agree to contract terms or disputes in contract terms; poor initial cost estimates; work stoppages; adverse weather conditions; government actions; legal action; unforeseen engineering or technology issues; limited access to capital; and other adverse economic conditions.  We may not be able to recover all costs for the projects in rates and face increased risk of potential impairment of our project investment if a construction project is not completed or is delayed, or final costs exceed expectations or the costs approved by our regulators, for example, if IPL's expansion of wind generation exceeds the respective cost cap approved by the IUB.  Inability to recover costs, or inability to complete the project in a timely manner, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Demand for energy may decrease - Our results of operations are affected by the demand for energy in our service territories.  Energy demand may decrease due to many things, including economic conditions, proliferation of customer- and third party-owned generation, loss of service territory or franchises, energy efficiency measures, technological advances that increase energy efficiency, and loss of wholesale customers.  The loss of sales due to lower demand for energy may increase our rates for remaining customers, as our rates must cover our fixed costs.  Rate increases may cause decreased demand for energy as customers move to customer- and third party-owned generation and implement energy efficiency measures to reduce costs.  The loss of customers, the inability to replace those customers with new customers, and the decrease in demand for energy could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes to certain tax elections, tax regulations and future taxable income could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations - We have significantly reduced our federal and state income tax obligations over the past few years through tax planning strategies and the extension of bonus depreciation deductions for certain expenditures for property.  These tax planning strategies and extensions of bonus depreciation deductions have generated large annual taxable losses and tax credits over the past few years that have resulted in significant federal net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards.  We plan to utilize substantially all of these net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards in the future to reduce our income tax obligations.  If we cannot generate enough taxable income in the future to utilize all of the net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards before they expire due to lower than expected financial performance or changes to tax regulations, we may incur material charges to earnings.  If the IRS does not agree with the deductions resulting from our tax planning strategies or our position on the qualification of production tax credits from planned and potential wind generating facilities, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted.. Our utility business currently operates wind generating facilities, which generate production tax credits for us to use to reduce our federal tax obligations.  The amount of production tax credits we earn is dependent on the level of electricity output generated by our wind farms and the applicable tax credit rate.  A variety of operating and economic parameters, including significant transmission constraints, adverse weather conditions and breakdown or failure of equipment, could significantly reduce the production tax credits generated by our wind farms resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Also, if corporate tax rates or policies are changed with future federal or state legislation, we may be required to take material charges against earnings.  For example, Tax Reform was enacted in December 2017, which included changes in corporate tax rates and tax policies.  Tax Reform may result in changes in cash flows, which may have a negative impact on our credit ratings.  There may also be further changes or amendments to Tax Reform or state tax policies and we are currently unable to determine what impacts any future changes will have on our financial condition or results of operations, including related impacts to IPL's and WPL's retail and wholesale electric and gas rates charged to their customers.. 15. Table of Contents. Finally, FERC regulates utility income tax policies, including partnership tax policies, which impact our investment in American Transmission Company LLC and ATC Holdco LLC (ATC Investment).  FERC is currently investigating these income tax policies in addition to rate of return policies as a result of a court decision.  The results of this investigation may lead to changes in FERC's income tax policies, which would impact partnership entities, particularly our ATC Investment.  We are currently unable to determine what impacts these potential changes will have on our financial condition or results of operations, however, it is possible that a change could reduce Alliant Energy's equity earnings and distributions from its ATC Investment.. A cyber attack may disrupt our operations or lead to a loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information or potential liability - We operate in an industry that requires the continuous use and operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure.  Cyber attacks targeting our electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and for electric and gas distribution systems could result in a full or partial disruption of our electric and/or gas operations.  Any disruption of these operations could result in a loss of service to customers and a significant decrease in revenues, as well as significant expense to repair system damage and remedy security breaches.  We have instituted certain safeguards to protect our operating systems and information technology assets, but they may not always be effective due to the evolving nature of cyber attacks and cyber security.  We cannot guarantee that such protections will be completely successful in the event of a cyber attack.  If the technology systems were to fail or be breached by a cyber attack or a computer virus, and not be recovered in a timely fashion, we may be unable to fulfill critical business functions and confidential data could be compromised, adversely impacting our financial condition and results of operation.. In addition, we may collect and retain sensitive information, including personal information about our customers, shareowners and employees.  In some cases, we outsource administration of certain functions to vendors that could be targets of cyber attacks.  For example, we outsource administration of our employee health insurance to Anthem.  Anthem was the target of a cyber attack in 2014.  Any theft, loss and/or fraudulent use of customer, shareowner, employee or proprietary data as a result of a cyber attack could subject us to significant litigation, liability and costs, as well as adversely impact our reputation with customers and regulators, among others.. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses - We operate in an industry that requires specialized technical skills.  It may be difficult to hire and retain such a skilled workforce due to labor market conditions, the length of time needed to acquire the skills, and general competition for talent.  Further, we need a workforce that is innovative, customer-focused and competitive to thrive in the future.  To the extent our corporate culture does not support and develop these attributes, we may not be able to successfully implement our future plans.  We are also subject to collective bargaining agreements with approximately 2,200 employees.  Any work stoppage experienced in connection with negotiations of collective bargaining agreements could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to implement our strategic plan.. Our utility business is seasonal and may be adversely affected by the impacts of weather - Electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses.  Demand for electricity is greater in the summer months associated with higher air conditioning needs.  In addition, market prices for electricity generally peak in the summer due to the higher demand.  Conversely, demand for natural gas depends significantly upon temperature patterns in winter months due to heavy use in residential and commercial heating.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition, we have historically generated less revenues and income when temperatures are warmer in the winter and/or cooler in the summer.  Thus, unusually mild winters and/or summers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our utility businesses are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations - Our utilities are subject to numerous stringent environmental laws and regulations by many federal, regional, state and local authorities, and international treaties.  These laws and regulations generally concern emissions into the air, effluents into the water, use of water, wetlands preservation, remediation of contamination, waste disposal, disposal of coal combustion residuals, hazardous waste disposal, threatened and endangered species, and noise regulation, among others.  We are also subject to Consent Decrees, which require construction of specific environmental control equipment, establish emission rate limits, require retirement or fuel switching of certain facilities and completing environmental mitigation projects.  Failure to comply with such laws, regulations and Consent Decrees, or to obtain or comply with any necessary environmental permits pursuant to such laws and regulations, could result in injunctions, fines or other sanctions.  Environmental laws and regulations affecting power generation and distribution are complex and subject to continued uncertainty, but have tended to become more stringent over time.  These laws and regulations have imposed, and proposed laws and regulations could impose in the future, additional costs on the operation of our generating facilities.  We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and other expenditures to comply with these and other environmental laws and regulations.  Changes in, or new development of,. 16. Table of Contents. environmental restrictions may force us to incur significant expenses or expenses that may exceed our estimates.  There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any increased environmental costs from our customers.  Failure to comply with the laws, regulations and Consent Decrees, changes in the laws and regulations and failure to recover costs of compliance may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Actions related to global climate change and reducing greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions could negatively impact us - Regulators, customers and investors continue to raise concerns about climate change and GHG emissions.  National regulatory action is in flux, but international regulatory actions continue.  We are focused on executing a long-term strategy to deliver reliable and affordable energy with lower carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions independent of changing policies and political landscape.  However, it is unclear how these climate change concerns will ultimately impact us.  We could incur costs or other obligations to comply with future GHG regulations, and could become the target of legal claims or challenges, because generating electricity using fossil fuels emits CO2 and other GHG.  Further, investors may determine that we are too reliant on fossil fuels and not buy shares of our common stock, or sell shares of our common stock, which may cause our stock price to decrease.  We could face additional pressures from customers or investors to more rapidly reduce CO2 on a voluntary-basis, including faster adoption of lower carbon technologies and management of excess renewable energy credits.  The EPA's approach and timing for implementing rules to regulate carbon emissions at fossil-fueled electric generating units remains undecided and subject to litigation.  We cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts of climate change policy or GHG regulations on our operations and these could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on the capital markets and could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the capital markets - Successful implementation of our strategic plan is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets under competitive terms and rates.  We have forecasted capital expenditures of approximately $5 billion over the next four years.  Disruption, uncertainty or volatility in those markets could increase our cost of capital or limit the availability of capital.  Disruptions could be caused by Federal Reserve policies and actions, currency concerns, economic downturn or uncertainty, monetary policies, a negative view of the utility industry or our company, failures of financial institutions, U.S. debt management concerns, U.S. debt limit and budget debates, including government shutdowns, European and worldwide sovereign debt concerns, other global or geopolitical events, or other factors.  Increases in interest rates may cause the price of our equity securities to decline.  Any disruptions in capital markets could adversely impact our ability to implement our strategic plan.. We rely on our strong credit ratings to access the credit markets.  If our credit ratings are downgraded for any reason, such as Tax Reform impacts or general negative outlook for the utility industry, we could pay higher interest rates in future financings, the pool of potential lenders could be reduced, borrowing costs under existing credit facilities could increase, our access to the commercial paper market could be limited, or we could be required to provide additional credit assurance, including cash collateral, to contract counterparties.  If our access to capital were to become significantly constrained or costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing industry conditions, regulatory constraints, volatility of the capital markets or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Regional and national economic conditions could have an unfavorable impact on us - Our utility and non-utility businesses follow the economic cycles of the customers we serve and credit risk of counterparties we do business with.  Adverse economic conditions in our service territories can adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and reduce their demand for electricity and natural gas.  Economic conditions may not create enough growth to replace lost energy demand or to grow energy demand.  Reduced volumes of electricity and natural gas sold, or the inability to collect unpaid bills from our customers due to deterioration in national or regional economic conditions, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - We are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities.  Generation, transmission and distribution facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets of physical or cyber attacks.  Physical attacks on transmission and distribution facilities that appeared to be terrorist-style attacks have occurred.  The risks posed by such attacks could include, among other things, the inability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources, the increased cost of security and insurance, the disruption of, volatility in, or other effects on capital markets, and a decline in the economy and/or energy usage within our service territories, all of which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, the cost of repairing damage to our facilities and infrastructure due to acts of terrorism, and the loss of revenue if such events prevent us from providing utility service to our customers, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. We may not be able to fully recover costs related to commodity prices - We have natural gas and coal supply and transportation contracts in place for some of the natural gas and coal we require to generate electricity.  We also have transportation and supply agreements in place to facilitate delivery of natural gas to our customers.  Our counterparties to these contracts may not fulfill their obligations to provide natural gas or coal to us due to financial or operational problems, such as natural disasters or severe weather.  If we were unable to obtain enough natural gas or coal for our electric generating facilities under our existing contracts, or to obtain electricity under existing or future purchased power agreements, we could be required to purchase natural gas or coal at higher prices or forced to purchase electricity from higher-cost generating resources in the MISO energy market.  If, for natural gas delivery to our customers, we were unable to obtain our natural gas supply requirements under existing or future natural gas supply and transportation contracts, we could be required to purchase natural gas at higher prices from other sources.  Natural gas market prices have generally been stable recently, but have been volatile in the past during periods of extremely cold temperatures or disruption in supply caused by major storms or pipeline explosions.  We may not be able to pass on the changes in costs to our customers, especially at WPL where we do not have a retail electric automatic fuel cost adjustment clause.  Increases in prices and costs due to disruptions that are not fully and timely recovered in rates may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to fully recover higher transmission costs - Neither IPL nor WPL own or operate electric transmission facilities, however, both IPL and WPL pay for the use of the interstate electric transmission system based upon FERC-regulated rates.  IPL and WPL rely primarily on the use of the ITC Midwest LLC (ITC) and American Transmission Company LLC (ATC) transmission systems, respectively.  Due to the formula rates used by ITC and ATC to charge their customers and possible future changes to these rates, there is uncertainty regarding IPL's and WPL's future electric transmission service expense.  In addition, FERC may change the way transmission companies set rates to socialize transmission system upgrades or to differently price generation resources necessary to maintain system reliability and resiliency.  The prices that IPL and WPL charge for electricity may not totally compensate for the increase in such transmission costs.  We may not be able to fully or timely pass on the increases in such transmission costs to our customers.  In addition, if the transmission cost rider at IPL or escrow accounting treatment of transmission costs at WPL are amended or removed, we may not be able to fully recover transmission costs.  Inability to fully recover transmission costs in a timely manner may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We face risks associated with operating electric and natural gas infrastructure - The operation of electric generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, failure of generating facilities including wind turbines, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency, employee safety, operator error and compliance with mandatory reliability standards.  Our energy delivery infrastructure is aging, which increases certain risks, including breakdown or failure of equipment and fires developing from our power lines.  In addition, the North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at particular points within the grid could cause an extensive power outage in our delivery systems.  Increased utilization of customer- and third party-owned generation technologies could disrupt the reliability and balance of the electricity grid.  Further, the transmission system in our utilities' service territories can experience constraints limiting the ability to transmit electric energy within our service territories.  The transmission constraints could result in an inability to deliver energy from generating facilities, particularly wind generating facilities, to the national grid, or to access lower cost sources of electric energy.  We also have obligations to provide electric service under regulatory requirements and contractual commitments.  Failure to meet our service obligations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. The operation of our gas transmission and distribution infrastructure also involves many risks, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems and employee and public safety, which could cause substantial financial losses.  These risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental emissions, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us.  We are also responsible for compliance with new and changing mandatory reliability and safety standards, including anticipated new regulations under the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration.  Our infrastructure is aging, which could impact safety and compliance with possible new regulations.  Failure to meet these standards could result in substantial fines.  Electric and gas infrastructure operations could be impacted by future compliance with the Clean Power Plan.  We also have obligations to provide service under regulatory requirements and contractual commitments.  Failure to meet our service obligations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Storms or other natural disasters may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - Storms and other natural disasters, including events such as floods, tornadoes, blizzards, ice storms, droughts, fires, solar flares or pandemics may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy and gas or obtain fuel or other critical supplies.  In addition, we could incur large costs to repair damage to our generating facilities and electric and gas infrastructure, or costs related to environmental remediation, due to storms or other natural disasters.  The restoration costs may not be fully covered. 18. Table of Contents. by insurance policies and may not be fully recovered in rates, or recovery in rates may be delayed.  Storms and natural disasters may impact our customers and the resulting reduced demand for energy could cause lower sales and revenues, which may not be replaced or recovered in rates, or rate recovery may be delayed.  Any of these items could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur material post-closing adjustments related to past asset and business divestitures - We have sold certain non-utility subsidiaries such as Whiting Petroleum Corporation (Whiting Petroleum), as well as regulated assets such as our Minnesota electric and natural gas distribution assets.  We may continue to incur liabilities relating to our previous ownership of, or the transactions pursuant to which we disposed of, these subsidiaries and assets.  Any potential liability depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the financial condition of Whiting Petroleum and/or its assignees.  Any required payments on retained liabilities, guarantees or indemnification obligations with respect to Whiting Petroleum, the sales of our Minnesota electric and natural gas distribution assets, or other future asset or business divestitures, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to limitations on our ability to pay dividends - Alliant Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own.  The primary sources of funds for Alliant Energy to pay dividends to its shareowners are dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries, primarily its utility subsidiaries.  Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments.  The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us and, accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on Alliant Energy common stock will depend on regulatory limitations, earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries.  Our utilities have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of any outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them.  If we do not receive adequate dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries, then we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce, dividend payments on Alliant Energy common stock.. Our pension and other postretirement benefits plans are subject to investment and interest rate risk that could negatively impact our financial condition - We have pension and other postretirement benefits plans that provide benefits to many of our employees and retirees.  Costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of these plans are subject to changes in the market value of the assets that fund the plans.  The funded status of the plans and the related costs reflected in our financial statements are affected by various factors, which are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, including economic conditions, financial market performance, interest rates, life expectancies and demographics.  Recessions and volatility in the domestic and international financial markets have negatively affected the asset values of our pension plans at various times in the past.  Poor investment returns or lower interest rates may necessitate accelerated funding of the plans to meet minimum federal government requirements, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Energy industry changes could have a negative effect on our businesses - We operate in a highly regulated business environment.  The advent of new and unregulated markets has the potential to significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations.  Further, competitors may not be subject to the same operating, regulatory and financial requirements that we are, potentially causing a substantial competitive disadvantage for us.  Changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of our utility companies.  Increased competition from any restructuring efforts in our primary retail electric service territories may have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We face risks related to non-utility operations - We rely on our non-utility operations for a portion of our earnings.  If our non-utility investments do not perform at expected levels, we could experience a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations."
