[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks, or any other risks not described below, actually occur, it is likely that our business, financial condition, and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.. Risks Related to the Asset Sale Transaction with Celularity.. The announcement and pendency of the Asset Sale Transaction, whether or not consummated, may adversely affect our business.. The announcement and pendency of the Asset Sale Transaction, whether or not consummated, may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, our business or our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees. In addition, pending the completion of the Asset Sale Transaction, we may be unable to attract and retain key personnel and the focus and attention of our management and employee resources may be diverted from operational matters during the pendency of the Asset Sale Transaction.. 12. We cannot be sure if or when the Asset Sale Transaction will be completed.. The closing of the Asset Sale Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of various conditions, including the Stockholder Approval. We cannot guarantee that the closing conditions set forth in the Asset Purchase Agreement will be satisfied. If we are unable to satisfy the closing conditions in Celularity’s favor or if other mutual closing conditions are not satisfied, Celularity will not be obligated to complete the Asset Sale Transaction. In the event that the Asset Sale Transaction is not completed, the announcement of the termination of the Asset Purchase Agreement may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, our business and operations or our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees. In addition, (i) we will not be able to repay our debt to the lender under the Credit Agreement, and the lender may choose to pursue any rights and remedies available to it, including, but not limited to, declaring all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount to be immediately due and payable, imposing a default rate of interest as specified in the Credit Agreement, pursing the lender’s rights and remedies as a secured party under the UCC as a secured lender, or seeking to foreclose on some or substantially all of our assets pursuant to the lender’s lien held on such assets and (ii) we may face termination of, or litigation with respect to, the License Agreement and the Supply Agreements as the Celularity has alleged that we are in default under each of these agreements and will only forbear from seeking to terminate such agreements to the extent that the Asset Sale Transaction closes.. In addition, if the Asset Sale Transaction is not completed, our Board, in discharging its fiduciary obligations to our stockholders, may evaluate other strategic alternatives that may be available, which alternatives may not be as favorable to us as the Asset Sale Transaction.. The Asset Purchase Agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the Asset Sale Transaction.. The Asset Purchase Agreement contains provisions that make it more difficult for us to sell our assets or engage in another type of acquisition transaction with a party other than Celularity. These provisions include a non-solicitation provision and a provision obligating us to pay Celularity a termination fee of $1.45 million under certain circumstances. These provisions could discourage a third party that might have an interest in acquiring all of, or substantially all of, our assets or our common stock from considering or proposing such an acquisition, even if that party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher value than the consideration to be paid by Celularity.. Our stockholders may not receive any of the proceeds of the Asset Sale Transaction.. The proceeds from the Asset Sale Transaction will be paid directly to us. Our Board will evaluate different alternatives for the use of the proceeds from the Asset Sale Transaction. Although the alternatives are expected to include using a portion of the proceeds to repay our outstanding indebtedness (including prepayment fees) to Perceptive of approximately $12.6 million in full, to pay transaction and other expenses of approximately $3 million, return capital to our stockholders and to use the remainder of the proceeds, together with any other sources of liquidity available to us at that time, to support operations at our hydrogel plant and to pursue strategic opportunities including, without limitation, a reverse merger transaction or a strategic acquisition, the Board may decide to utilize all of the proceeds for other purposes.. We will incur significant expenses in connection with the Asset Sale Transaction, regardless of whether the Asset Sale Transaction is completed and, in certain circumstances, may be required to pay a termination fee to Celularity.. We expect to incur significant expenses related to the Asset Sale Transaction. These expenses include, but are not limited to, financial advisory and opinion fees and expenses, legal fees, accounting fees and expenses, certain employee expenses, filing fees, printing expenses and other related fees and expenses. Many of these expenses will be payable by us regardless of whether the Asset Sale Transaction is completed. In addition, if the Asset Purchase Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances, we will be required to pay Celularity a $1.45 million termination fee. However, if the Asset Purchase Agreement is terminated in certain other circumstances, we may be entitled to a $3 million reverse termination fee from Celularity.. Risks Related to Our Future Operations if We Consummate the Asset Sale Transaction.. Our operations will be curtailed and we will have limited sources of revenue following the Asset Sale Transaction, which may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our common stock.. Upon the closing of the Asset Sale Transaction, our operations will be curtailed as our sources of revenue will be limited to our hydrogel manufacturing business. Although the alternatives under evaluation by our Board for the use of the proceeds from the Asset Sale Transaction includes supporting our operations at our hydrogel plant and pursuing strategic opportunities, there can be no assurance that we will be successful at carrying out such alternatives or that they will be successful at generating revenue. A failure by us to secure additional sources of revenue following the closing of the Asset Sale Transaction could negatively impact the value and liquidity of our common stock.. The uncertainty regarding the use of proceeds from the Asset Sale Transaction and our future operations may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our common stock.. Although our Board will evaluate various alternatives regarding the use of the proceeds from the Asset Sale Transaction, it has made no decision with respect to the use of proceeds and has not committed to making any such decision by a particular date. This uncertainty may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our common stock.. 13. We will continue to incur the expense of complying with public company reporting requirements following the closing of the Asset Sale Transaction.. After the Asset Sale Transaction, we will continue to be required to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome.. Risks Related to Our Company. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm contains an explanatory paragraph as to our ability to continue as a going concern, which could prevent us from obtaining new financing on reasonable terms or at all.. Because we have had recurring losses, negative cash flows from operating activities, limited cash on hand in light of expected expenditures and are in default of certain financial covenants under our Credit Agreement with Perceptive, the report of Marcum LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, with respect to our financial statements at December 31, 2017, and for the year ended December 31, 2017, contains an explanatory paragraph as to our potential inability to continue as a going concern. This opinion indicates that substantial doubt exists regarding our ability to remain in business. Such an opinion may adversely affect our ability to obtain new financing on reasonable terms or at all.. We have experienced significant losses and expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future.. We have incurred annual net losses of $25.7 million and $28.2 million, during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $150.0 million. We expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future.. We will require additional capital if we do not consummate the Asset Sale Transaction.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $2.2 million of cash on hand. Given our current cost structure, we will require additional equity and/or debt financing if we do not consummate the Asset Sale Transaction. If we are unable to raise additional capital or if we encounter circumstances that place unforeseen constraints on capital resources, we will be required to take measures to conserve liquidity, which may include, but are not limited to, eliminating all non-essential positions, ceasing all marketing efforts, curtailing business development activities and/or suspending all operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in improving revenues, reducing expenses and/or securing additional capital in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms to successfully continue our business.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness under our $12.1 million principal term loan and are in default of certain financial covenants under the Credit Agreement, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business.. In order to finance our acquisition of Celleration, on May 29, 2015, we and each of our subsidiaries entered into the Credit Agreement with Perceptive, which provided for a senior, secured term loan with a current principal amount of approximately $12.1 million. The full unpaid principal amount of the term loan will mature on May 29, 2019. Prior to maturity, on the last business day of each calendar month commencing on the earlier of April 30, 2018 or the date the Asset Purchase Agreement with Celularity is terminated, we will be required to make monthly principal payments of $225,000, with any remaining unpaid balance of the term loan being payable in cash on the maturity date. The repayment of the term loan and our obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured by a first priority lien on all of our existing and after acquired tangible and intangible assets, including intellectual property. The Credit Agreement also contains certain restrictions that prohibit us and our subsidiaries from engaging in certain transactions and activities, including but not limited to the following:. ·entering into, creating, incurring or assuming any indebtedness of any kind, subject to limited exceptions;. ·creating or incurring new liens, subject to certain exceptions;. ·entering into new acquisitions or investments in other entities, subject to certain exceptions;. ·winding up, liquidating or dissolving;. ·merging or consolidating with another person or disposing of assets, subject to certain exceptions;. ·entering into inbound or outbound licenses, subject to certain exceptions;. ·changing the nature of our core business;. 14. ·paying cash dividends; and. ·repaying, repurchasing or otherwise acquiring shares of our common stock or other equity securities.. Our ability to meet our expenses, debt obligations and other financial covenants under the Credit Agreement will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will be unable to control many of these factors. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet any other obligations. If we do not have enough money to service our debt, we will be required, but may be unable to refinance or restructure all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and the lender could foreclose on its security interest and liquidate some or all of our assets, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Credit Agreement also requires us to meet certain financial covenants. Our ability to meet these financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, the Credit Agreement, the lender could institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently in default of certain financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.. In addition, as a result of our increased level of indebtedness, demands on our cash resources will continue to increase in the future and could, among other things:. ·require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements;. ·limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements;. ·limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. ·restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities;. ·place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. ·adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing our indebtedness might increase and our ability to obtain surety bonds could be impaired;. ·adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and. ·limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt.. We are currently in default of certain financial covenants under the Credit Agreement, which allows the lender to exercise certain rights and remedies, including, without limitation, declaring the entire outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Agreement of approximately $12.1 million immediately due and payable, imposing a default rate of interest and/or foreclosing on some or substantially all of our assets.. Under the Forbearance and Amendment Agreement dated as of February 5, 2018, the lender agreed to defer the commencement of our remaining principal payments and agreed to extend the forbearance period and to forbear from exercising any rights and remedies related to our default of a covenant pertaining to (i) trailing twelve-month revenue under the Credit Agreement as of (A) September 30, 2016, (B) December 31, 2016, (C) March 31, 2017, (D) June 30, 2017, (E) September 30, 2017, and (F) December 31, 2017 and (ii) failure to maintain on a consolidated basis, a monthly minimum cash balance of at least $2,000,000, until the earlier of April 30, 2018, the termination of the Asset Purchase Agreement, or the date when the lender becomes aware of any other default.. The remedies available for the lender include, among others, the ability to accelerate and immediately demand payment of the outstanding debt of approximately $12.1 million under the Credit Agreement, to impose a default rate of interest, to foreclose on some or all of our assets, and/or to take possession of or sell some or all of our assets. Were the lender to demand payment of the outstanding debt after expiration of the forbearance period, we would currently have insufficient funds to satisfy that obligation, and the lender’s exercise of its other remedies would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. 15. Occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement could result in a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, or the loss of our assets as the lender holds a first priority security interest in all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries.. Events of default under the Credit Agreement include, but are not limited to, the following:. ·failure to pay principal, interest or other amounts, if any, when due;. ·any form of bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding instituted by or against us or any of our subsidiaries that is not dismissed in 60 days;. ·a default occurring under any debenture, mortgage, credit agreement, indenture or other instrument representing or securing indebtedness in an amount exceeding $250,000;. ·we or any of our subsidiaries is party to a change of control;. ·the FDA or other governmental authority (i) issues a letter or other communication asserting any of our products lacks a required product authorization, including in respect of CE marks or 510(k)s or 361 HCT/P qualification, or (ii) initiates enforcement action or warning against us, any of our products or manufacturing facilities resulting in the discontinuance of marketing, withdrawal of any material products, or delay in the manufacture of any material products, each lasting for more than 90 days;. ·a recall of any product that has generated or is expected to generate at least $1.0 million in revenue in the aggregate over any consecutive twelve (12) month period;. ·we or any of our subsidiaries enters into a settlement agreement with the FDA or any other governmental authority that results in aggregate liability as to any single or related series of transactions, incidents or conditions, in excess of $500,000;. ·we are in default under our license agreement with Celularity or the license agreement is terminated, amended, waived or otherwise modified in a manner materially adverse to the lender’s interests; and. ·failure to observe or perform any other covenant contained in the Credit Agreement.. Upon occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement, payment of the entire principal amount could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. The cash that we may be required to pay would most likely come out of our working capital, which may be insufficient to repay the obligation or leave us with insufficient cash to finance our operations. In such event, we may lose some or all of our assets as the lender could foreclose on its security interests and liquidate some or all of these assets, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be required to file for bankruptcy, sell assets, or cease operations, any of which would put our company, our investors and the value of our common stock, at significant risk.. The pledge of these assets and other restrictions may limit our flexibility in raising capital for other purposes. Because substantially all of our assets are pledged under the Credit Agreement, our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness or to sell or dispose of assets to raise capital may be impaired, which could have an adverse effect on our financial flexibility.. Our goodwill and long-lived assets are subject to potential further impairment, and if those become further impaired, it could materially further the reduction in the value of our assets and increase our net loss for the year in which the write-off occurs.. Our intangible and fixed assets have finite useful lives and are amortized or depreciated over their useful lives on either a straight-line basis or over the expected period of benefit or as revenues are earned from the sales of the related products. The underlying assumptions regarding the estimated useful lives of these intangible assets are reviewed annually and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable and are adjusted through accelerated amortization if necessary. Whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets is not recoverable we test intangible assets for impairment based on estimates of future cash flows. If an intangible asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of the impairment will equal the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1.7 million in goodwill related to acquisitions, which represents the purchase price we paid in excess of the fair value of the net tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets we acquired. We assess the recoverability of goodwill annually, at the beginning of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. Under Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance for goodwill and other intangible assets, a reporting unit is defined as an operating segment or one level below the operating segment, called a component. However, two or more components of an operating segment will be aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit if the components have similar economic characteristics. We adopted authoritative accounting guidance that allows us to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the more detailed two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. We perform the quantitative test if the qualitative assessment determined it is more likely than not that a reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. We may elect to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to the quantitative test for any reporting unit. When performing the quantitative test, an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s net assets exceeds the estimated fair value of the reporting unit and the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill is determined to exceed the implied fair value of that goodwill. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, we elected to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to the quantitative test for our reporting unit. As of December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of our reporting unit was calculated using the sale price of the Asset Sales Transaction. As of December 31, 2016, the estimated fair value of our reporting unit was calculated using a discounted cash flow model. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $10.3 million related to our goodwill. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $1.7 million related to our MIST tradename and approximately $9.2 million related to our goodwill.. 16. If actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and intangible asset calculations, we could incur further impairment or amortization charges. Any finding that the value of our goodwill and long-lived assets has been further impaired would require us to write off the impaired portion, which could materially reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income or increase our net loss for the year in which the write off occurs and increase our accumulated deficit, which could contribute to difficulty in raising additional funds.. If we fail to meet certain minimum sales thresholds for products licensed pursuant to our agreement with Celularity, we could lose our right to license such products.. Our license agreement with Celularity is terminable on a product-by-product basis if we fail to meet certain minimum sales thresholds in the second year or any subsequent year of commercial sales of the licensed products. Each year of commercial sales is referred to in the license agreement as “launch years” and the calendar period constituting each launch year for the licensed product is determined in accordance with the terms of the license agreement, and for the purpose of determining whether the license can be terminated for failure to meet the minimum sales threshold, Biovance and Interfyl are treated on an aggregate basis as if a single licensed product. To maintain our license for Biovance and Interfyl, we must meet a minimum gross sales amount for Biovance and Interfyl in the second year and third year of commercial sales. If we fail to meet the minimum threshold in the second year of commercial sales of a licensed product, we would be able to cure such failure by making a cure payment specified in the license agreement to Celularity; provided, however, we do not have the option to make a cure payment, should we fail to meet the minimum threshold for such product in the third year of commercial sales, and Celularity may terminate the license agreement with respect to such product. If we do not meet the minimum sales threshold, Celularity may terminate the license with respect to Biovance and Interfyl. Even though we are implementing sales and marketing strategies to meet this minimum gross sales amount, no assurance can be given that we will be able to meet the minimum sales thresholds for Biovance and Interfyl. If we were to lose or otherwise become unable to maintain our right to license Biovance, Interfyl or other products from Celularity, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any termination of our right to license Biovance, Interfyl or other products under the license agreement with Celularity could trigger an event of default under our Credit Agreement.. Decisions in reimbursement levels by governmental or other third-party payers for our products and procedures using our products may have an adverse impact on acceptance and use of our products.. We believe that our products will be purchased principally by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers, which typically bill various third-party payers, such as state and federal healthcare programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the products and services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payers is critical to the success of our business because reimbursement status affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. In addition, our ability to obtain reimbursement approval in foreign jurisdictions will affect our ability to expand our product offerings internationally.. Third-party payers have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, a number of policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These policies include:. ·imposition of conditions of payment by foreign, state and federal healthcare programs as well as private insurance plans;. ·rules related to how products and services may be marketed; and. ·reduction in reimbursement amounts applicable to specific products and services.. Adverse decisions relating to coverage or reimbursement of our products would have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them.. We are unable to predict whether foreign, federal, state or local healthcare reform legislation or regulation affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Changes in healthcare systems in the United States or internationally in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our products or denies coverage for these procedures would also have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices which our customers are willing to pay for them.. 17. Our future success depends on our ability to retain key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. We believe that our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain David Johnson, our Chief Executive Officer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find and attract additional qualified employees or retain our Chief Executive Officer and other key personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel, or the loss of services of or Chief Executive Officer or key personnel who may be hired in the future may have a material and adverse effect on our business.. Our strategic business plan may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income.. Our strategies include making significant investments in sales and marketing programs to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets. If we do not achieve the expected benefit from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our acquisition strategy may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income.. As part of our strategy for growth, we may make acquisitions and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. Such acquisitions could reduce shareholders’ ownership, require us to incur debt, expose us to liabilities and result in amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definite lives. In addition, acquisitions involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and risks associated with entering new markets with which we have limited experience or where distribution alliances with experienced distributors are not available. Our future profitability may depend in part upon our ability to further develop our resources to adapt to these new products or business areas and to identify and enter into satisfactory distribution networks. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefit of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all, or the acquired business may not perform in accordance with our expectations. We may also incur significant expenditures in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized. There can be no assurance that difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future success depends upon market acceptance of our existing and future products.. We believe that our success will depend in part upon the acceptance of our existing and future products by the medical community, hospitals and physicians and other health care providers, third-party payers, and end-users. Such acceptance may depend upon the extent to which the medical community and end-users perceive our products as safer, more effective or cost-competitive than other similar products. Ultimately, for our new products to gain general market acceptance, it may also be necessary for us to develop marketing partners for the distribution of our products. There can be no assurance that our new products will achieve significant market acceptance on a timely basis, or at all. Failure of some or all of our future products to achieve significant market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from large, well-established medical device manufacturers as well as new market entrants.. Competition from other medical device companies and from research and academic institutions is intense, expected to increase, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, we compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from those institutions. A number of factors may limit the market acceptance of our products, including the timing of regulatory approvals and market entry relative to competitive products, the availability of alternative products, and the price of our products relative to alternative products, the availability of third party reimbursement and the extent of marketing efforts by third party distributors or agents that we retain. There can be no assurance that our products will receive market acceptance in a commercially viable period of time, if at all. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we can develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products, or that our competitors will not succeed in developing or acquiring products and technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us, that would render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete.. Our competitors enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including some or all of the following:. ·large and established distribution networks in the United States and/or in international markets;. ·greater financial, managerial and other resources for products research and development, sales and marketing efforts and protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights;. ·significantly greater name recognition;. ·more expansive portfolios of intellectual property rights;. 18. ·     established relations with physicians, hospitals, other healthcare providers and third party payers;. ·     products which have been approved by regulatory authorities for use in the United States and/or Europe and which are supported by long-term clinical data; and. ·     greater experience in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and/or clearances from the FDA and other regulatory agencies.. Our competitors’ products will compete directly with our products. In addition, our competitors as well as new market entrants may develop or acquire new treatments, products or procedures that will compete directly or indirectly with our products. The presence of this competition in our market may lead to pricing pressure which would make it more difficult to sell our products at a price that will make us profitable or prevent us from selling our products at all. Our failure to compete effectively would have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes to the FDA approval process or ongoing regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain FDA approval of our products or comply with ongoing requirements.. Our products are subject to rigorous pre- and post-approval regulation by the FDA as well as other federal and state authorities. Based on scientific developments, post-market experience, or other legislative or regulatory changes, the current FDA standards of review for approving new medical device and other FDA regulated products are sometimes more stringent than those that were applied in the past. For example, with passage of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act in 2012 (the “FDASIA”), the FDA was required to revisit some of its policies regarding 510(k) devices which resulted in the FDA drafting new guidance for the 510(k) process. The FDA continues to revisit and clarify its guidance regarding 510(k) devices, and such revisions could impact the process for clearing medical devices, determining which devices are eligible for 510(k) clearance, the ability to rescind previously granted 510(k) clearances and additional requirements that may significantly impact the process.. Additionally, we believe that some of our products are regulated under Section 361 of the PHS Act and that as a result no premarket review or approval is required. If the FDA does not agree that one or more of our HCT/P products meet its regulatory criteria for regulation solely as 361 HCT/Ps, our HCT/Ps will be regulated as drugs, devices, and/or biological products, and we could be required to withdraw those products from the market until the applicable approvals are obtained.. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations or legal interpretations by the FDA or the courts, when and if promulgated or issued, may have on our business in the future. Changes could, among other things, require additional product approvals, different labeling, monitoring of patients, interaction with physicians, education programs for patients or physicians, curtailment of necessary supplies, or limitations on product distribution. These changes, or others required by the FDA could have an adverse effect on the sales of these products, up to and including our inability to sell such products until we may be able to address such requirements. The evolving and complex nature of regulatory science and regulatory requirements, the broad authority and discretion of the FDA and the generally high level of regulatory oversight results in a continuing possibility that from time to time, we will be adversely affected by regulatory actions despite ongoing efforts and commitment to achieve and maintain full compliance with all regulatory requirements.. Should the FDA determine that Biovance and/or Interfyl do not meet regulatory requirements that permit qualifying HCT/Ps to be processed, stored, labeled and distributed without pre-marketing approval, our supplier may be required by the FDA to stop processing and we may be required to stop distributing Biovance and/or Interfyl, or to narrow the indications for which Biovance and/or Interfyl is marketed, which, in turn, could also result in a default under our Credit Agreement.. Each of Biovance and Interfyl is a product derived from human tissue. The FDA has specific regulations governing HCT/Ps. An HCT/P is a product containing or consisting of human cells and/or tissue intended for transplantation into humans. HCT/Ps that meet the criteria for regulation solely under Section 361 of the PHS Act and 21 CFR 1271 are not subject to pre-market clearance or approval requirements, but are subject to post-market regulatory requirements. To be a 361 HCT/P, a product must meet all four of the following criteria:. ·it must be minimally manipulated;. ·it must be intended for homologous use only;. ·it must not be combined with another article; and. ·it must not have a systemic effect and not be dependent upon the metabolic activity of living cells for its primary function.. We and Celularity believe that each of Biovance and Interfyl qualifies as a 361 HCT/P. The FDA has published several draft guidance documents relating to the regulation of HCT/Ps, including the determination of what constitutes minimal manipulation, and held a public hearing on the subject in September 2016. We cannot predict whether or when the FDA will publish any final guidance documents. Moreover, guidance documents, even in final form, are not binding and are merely a reflection of the FDA’s thinking on a particular issue at the time that the final guidance document is published. Should the FDA finalize these drafts and include a significant change in its policy with respect to 361 HCT/P qualifications, or determine that our marketing claims exceed what would be permitted for a 361 HCT/P product, and either Biovance and/or Interfyl is determined to not qualify as a 361 HCT/P product, we may have to obtain approval or clearance from the FDA before we can continue to market Biovance or Interfyl in the United States. Furthermore, a communication from the FDA asserting that either Biovance or Interfyl does not qualify as a 361 HCT/P product could also trigger an event of default under our Credit Agreement.. 19. Modifications to our current products may require new marketing clearances or approvals or require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until such clearances or approvals are obtained.. Any modification to an FDA-cleared or approved product that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change or modification in the product’s intended use, requires a new FDA 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a premarket approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make its own determination as to whether a modification requires a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, but the FDA may review and disagree with any decision reached by the manufacturer. In the future, we may make additional modifications to our products after they have received FDA clearance or approval and, in appropriate circumstances, determine that new clearance or approval is unnecessary. Regulatory authorities may disagree with our past or future decisions not to seek new clearance or approval and may require us to obtain clearance or approval for modifications to our products. If that were to occur for a previously cleared or approved product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain the necessary clearance or approval. Under these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. We and our manufacturers are required to comply with current good manufacturing practices (“cGMPs”) and current good tissue practices (“cGTPs”) and could be subject to suspensions or product withdrawals if found non-compliant.. We rely on collaborative relationships with third-party contractors to manufacture various aspects of our products. Reliance on third-party contractors subjects us to a number of risks, including regulatory compliance issues. We may be responsible for the failures of our third-party contractors. The FDA regulates the facilities, processes and procedures used to manufacture and market medical products in the United States. Manufacturing facilities must be registered with the FDA and all products made in such facilities must be manufactured in accordance with cGMP, regulations enforced by the FDA. Compliance with cGMP regulations require the dedication of substantial resources and requires significant expenditures. The FDA periodically inspects our manufacturing facilities and those of our contractors. The inspections are generally random, however, and we cannot predict with certainty when the FDA will inspect our facilities or those of our contractors. Any failure of regulatory standards of compliance by us or on the part of our third-party contractors may compel the FDA to take actions to recall products or to suspend, or withdraw one or more of our product approvals. We or our third-party contractors may also be subject to additional FDA actions as identified in the subsequent section. Further, in the event that we need to use an additional contractor or transfer our processes or methods to manufacture our products to an alternative contractor; or if the FDA decides to curtail or cease our operations or cease or curtail our contractor due to manufacturing problems, the FDA’s actions could result in product delays which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition and cash flow.. We will be subject to ongoing federal and state regulations, and if we fail to comply, our business could be seriously harmed.. Following regulatory marketing clearance or approval of any products that we may develop, we will be subject to continued regulatory review, including review of adverse (drug or device) events or reactions and clinical results that are reported after our products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or continued actions required by a condition of approval. The manufacturing facilities we may use to make any of our products may become subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often requires FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. In addition, for products we develop in the future, we and our contract manufacturers may be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we or any of our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may:. ·issue warning letters;. ·impose civil or criminal penalties;. ·suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval;. ·suspend or terminate any of our ongoing clinical trials;. ·refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us;. ·impose restrictions on our operations;. 20. ·close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; and/or. ·seize or detain products or require a product recall.. Additionally, regulatory review covers our activities in the promotion of our medical products, with significant potential penalties and restrictions for promotion of drugs, devices or tissues for an unapproved use. Sales and marketing programs, such as illegal promotions to health care professionals, are under scrutiny for compliance with various mandated requirements. We are also required to submit information on open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases. Failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and penalties that could harm our business.. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined, be forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including delay, which would materially harm our financial results. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion.. We and our sales personnel, whether employed by us or by others, must comply with various federal and state anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and reporting and similar laws, any breach of which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our relationships with physicians, hospitals, other healthcare providers and the marketers of our products are subject to scrutiny under various U.S. federal anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims, physician sunshine and other reporting laws and regulations and similar laws, often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are complex, and even minor, inadvertent violations can give rise to liability, or claims of alleged violations. Possible sanctions for violation of these fraud and abuse laws include monetary fines; civil and criminal penalties; exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs, workers’ compensation programs and TRICARE, the healthcare system administered by or on behalf of the U.S. Department of Defense for uniformed services beneficiaries, including active duty and their dependents, retirees and their dependents; and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions. Many states have similar, or sometimes broader, fraud and abuse laws that also authorize substantial civil and criminal penalties for violations. Any government investigation or a finding of a violation of these laws would likely result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits any knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of an individual or the ordering or recommending of the use of a product or service for which payment may be made by any federal healthcare program, including Medicare. The definition of “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, payments of cash and waivers of payments. States also often have anti-kickback laws which may be broader in scope and apply to referrals and items or services reimbursed by both governmental and non-governmental third-party payers, including private insurers.. The federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies that are reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or Children’s Health Insurance Program to report annually to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. States also often have analogous laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may be broader in scope and apply to referrals and items or services reimbursed by both governmental and non-governmental third-party payers, including private insurers; and state transparency and reporting laws, which may require drug, device, and biologics manufacturers to report information to the state related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers, price disclosures, or marketing expenditures.. The scope and enforcement of the healthcare fraud and abuse laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change. There can be no assurance that federal or state regulatory or enforcement agencies will not investigate our current or future activities under these laws. Any investigation or challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any state or federal investigation, regardless of the outcome, could be costly and time-consuming. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, whether these changes are retroactive or will have effect on a going-forward basis only.. Because our business involves arrangements with physicians, hospitals, and healthcare providers, including physicians who consult with us on the design of our products, we could be materially impacted if regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts interpret our financial relationships with healthcare providers who refer, order, or use our products to be in violation of health care fraud and abuse laws. Such governmental action could harm our reputation and the reputations of the healthcare providers that we do business with. In addition, the cost of noncompliance with these laws could be substantial because we could be subject to monetary fines and civil or criminal penalties, and we could also be excluded from state and federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, for non-compliance.. 21. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, we may not be able to compete effectively.. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect the proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of trademark laws and confidentiality, noncompetition and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep a competitive advantage. Our patents and patent applications, if issued, may not be broad enough to prevent competitors from introducing similar products into the market. Our patents, if challenged or if it attempts to enforce them, may not necessarily be upheld by the courts. In addition, patent protection in foreign countries may be different from patent protection under U.S. laws and may not be favorable to us. Efforts to enforce any of our proprietary rights could be time-consuming and expensive, which could adversely affect our business and prospects and divert management’s attention.. We are dependent on proprietary know-how, and a failure to protect our proprietary know-how would harm our business and operation.. We rely on trade secret protection to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and for processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. In addition, we rely on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Moreover, others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information, and third parties may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. Any disclosure of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us.. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, there is no assurance that such protections will preclude our competitors from developing and/or marketing similar products. While we are not aware of any third party intellectual property that would materially affect our business, our failure or inability to obtain patents and protect our proprietary information could result in our business being adversely affected.. If we are not able to establish and maintain successful arrangements with third parties or successfully build our own sales and marketing infrastructure, we may not be able to commercialize our products, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition.. To commercialize our products, we must continue to develop our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which will be expensive and time consuming, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. The third parties may not be capable of successfully selling any of our products. We will have to commit significant resources to developing a marketing and sales force and supporting distribution capabilities. If we decide to enter into arrangements with third parties for performance of these services, we may find that they are not available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming, costly to defend and could result in our loss of significant rights and, in the case of patent infringement claims, the assessment of treble damages.. On occasion, we may receive notices of claims of our infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. We may have disputes regarding intellectual property rights with the parties that have licensed those rights to us. We may also initiate claims to defend our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of its outcome, is expensive and time-consuming, could divert management’s attention from our business and have a material negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the outcome of such litigation may be unpredictable. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages—including treble damages if we were to be found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patent—to the party claiming infringement, and to develop non-infringing technology, stop selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or commercially practical terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. In addition, modifying our products to exclude infringing technologies could require us to seek re-approval or clearance from various regulatory bodies for our products, which would be costly and time consuming. Also, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our technology. Parties making infringement claims on future issued patents may be able to obtain an injunction that would prevent us from selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could harm our business.. We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities, and we may not be able to maintain adequate product liability insurance.. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. This risk exists even if a device is cleared or approved for commercial sale by the FDA and manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by the FDA or an applicable foreign regulatory authority. Manufacturing and marketing of our commercial devices may expose us to product liability and other tort claims. Additionally, regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:. ·litigation costs;. ·distraction of management’s attention from our primary business;. 22. ·impairment of our business reputation;. ·the inability to commercialize our devices;. ·device recall or withdrawal from the market;. ·withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. ·substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; or. ·loss of revenue.. Although we have, and intend to maintain, liability insurance, the coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate, and one or more successful claims brought against us may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain insurance in the future at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage, we will be exposed to significant liabilities.. Healthcare policy changes, including reforms to the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us.. Healthcare costs in the United States have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been, and continue to be, proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party payers to keep these costs down. The efforts of governments and third-party payers to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare and legislative and regulatory proposals to broaden the availability of healthcare will likely affect the business and financial condition of biomedical companies. A number of legislative and regulatory changes in the healthcare system in the United States and other major healthcare markets have occurred in recent years, and interpretation and application of such changes continue to evolve. These developments have included healthcare reform legislation enacted by certain states and implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Affordable Care Act”) enacted in 2010 which resulted in significant changes to the health care industry. These developments could, directly or indirectly, impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payers. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. The Affordable Care Act includes significant provisions that encourage state and federal law enforcement agencies to increase activities related to preventing, detecting and prosecuting those who commit health care fraud and abuse. The Affordable Care Act continues to be implemented through regulation and government activity but is subject to possible amendment, additional implementing regulations and interpretive guidelines. The manner in which the Affordable Care Act continues to evolve could materially affect the extent to which and the amount at which medical devices and products are reimbursed by government programs such as Medicare, Medicaid and TRICARE. We cannot predict all impacts the Affordable Care Act may have on our products, but it may result in our products being chosen less frequently or the pricing being substantially lowered. Further, the Affordable Care Act has been subject to judicial and Congressional challenges, and legislative initiatives to modify, limit, or repeal the Affordable Care Act continue. For example, members of the current Congress have proposed additional legislative changes, including complete repeal and replacement of certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act. It remains to be seen, however, precisely what new healthcare reform legislation will be enacted, and what impact it will have on the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenue from our products and may affect our overall financial condition and ability to develop future products.. Other healthcare reform proposals have emerged at the federal and state levels. We cannot predict the exact effect newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially.. If we cannot maintain relationships with certain of our suppliers, it may be difficult to replace those suppliers and our business may suffer.. In general, raw materials essential to our business are readily available from multiple sources. However, for reasons of quality assurance, availability, or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier.. We believe that, due to the size and scale of production of our suppliers, there should be adequate supply of these raw materials from these manufacturers. In addition, our policy is to maintain sufficient inventory of components so that our production will not be significantly disrupted even if a particular component or material is not available for a period of time. However, there is no guarantee that our inventory will be sufficient to carry us through any disruption in supply. Because we have no direct control over our third-party suppliers, interruptions or delays in the products and services provided by these third parties may be difficult to remedy in a timely fashion. In addition, if such suppliers are unable or unwilling to deliver the necessary raw materials or products, we may be unable to redesign or adapt our technology to work without such raw materials or products or find alternative suppliers or manufacturers. In such events, we could experience interruptions, delays, increased costs or quality control problems.. 23. Under our Supply Agreements, we receive finished goods from Celularity. Because we have no direct control over Celularity’s suppliers, interruptions or delays in the products and services provided by these parties may be difficult to remedy in a timely fashion. In addition, if such suppliers are unable or unwilling to deliver the necessary products, we would be unable to sell any products that we expect from Celularity, and, therefore, could experience a significant adverse impact on our revenue.. In addition, on December 1, 2017, we received notice from Celularity that we are in material breach of the Supply Agreements for failure to purchase the required amounts of materials under the Supply Agreements. Celularity estimated that an additional purchase of at least $842,000 would have to be made by us to remedy this breach. Celularity has agreed to forbear from exercising its right to terminate the supply agreement until the closing of the Asset Purchase Agreement or termination of the Asset Purchase Agreement for any reason. If we do not consummate the Asset Sale Transaction and we were to lose our rights to purchase finished goods from Celularity under the Supply Agreements, it will have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We purchase the MIST Therapy system from a single source and UltraMIST from a single source. Reliance on outside suppliers makes us vulnerable to a number of risks that could impact our ability to manufacture the MIST Therapy system and UltraMIST and/or disposable applicators, resulting in harm to our business, including:. ·inability to obtain an adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms;. ·uncorrected defects that impact the performance, efficacy and safety of our products;. ·difficulty identifying and qualifying alternative suppliers for components in a timely manner;. ·     production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers and corresponding regulatory qualifications;. ·     delays in delivery by our suppliers due to changes in demand from us or other customers; and. ·     delays in delivery or production stoppage by our supplier due to a shortage of one or more of the components comprising our product.. If the supply of the MIST Therapy system or UltraMIST or the disposable applicators or saline bottles is interrupted or significantly delayed and we are unable to acquire product from alternate sources in a timely manner and at a commercially reasonable price, our ability to meet our customers’ demand would be impaired and our business could be harmed. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers for the MIST Therapy system and/or UltraMIST or disposable applicators may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant additional costs. Interruption of supply from our suppliers or failure to obtain additional suppliers would limit our ability to distribute our products and could therefore have an adverse effect on our business.. Contractual and other disagreements with or involving our licensors, distribution partners and other commercial partners could harm our business, make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses, particularly if we do not consummate the Asset Sale Transaction.. Our agreements with licensors, distribution partners and other commercial partners require us to comply with performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements.  At any given time, we may be in disputes with one or more licensors, distribution partners or other commercial partners. Any such dispute could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. On December 1, 2017, we received the Notices from Celularity. Celularity has agreed to forbear from exercising its right to terminate the license agreement until the closing of the Asset Sale Transaction or termination of the Asset Purchase Agreement for any reason. If we do not consummate the Asset Sale Transaction and transfer the License Agreement and Supply Agreements to Celularity as a part of the Purchased Assets we may face termination or litigation with respect to the Supply Agreements and the License Agreement. We cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with such licensors, distribution partners or any other third-party. A contractual dispute may result in a licensor or other commercial partners seeking to terminate our agreements, which could harm our business, even if such termination would be wrongful.. We are dependent upon third-party local distributors to market and distribute our products in key markets.. We rely on third-party distributors for marketing and distribution of our products in certain markets, both domestically and internationally. Our success in generating sales in markets where we have engaged local distributors depends in part on the efforts of others whom we do not employ. Many of these distributors have only limited personnel, which could impair their ability to successfully market, sell and service our products. Because of limited resources or for other reasons, they may not comply with applicable local regulations or respond promptly to adverse event reporting requirements under FDA regulations. As a result of such failures to comply with regulatory requirements, we may experience significant loss of revenue, increased costs and damage to our reputation, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if a distributor is terminated by us or goes out of business, it may take us a period of time to locate an alternative distributor, to transfer or obtain appropriate regulatory approvals and to train our personnel to market our products, and our ability to sell and service our products in the region formerly serviced by such terminated distributor could be materially adversely affected. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our revenue in markets served by distributors, increase our costs in those markets or damage our reputation.. 24. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose it to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we use networks to collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, and data relating to patients who use our products. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our operating margins, revenues and competitive position.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock and Warrants. The issuance of additional equity securities may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock.. We have issued equity securities in the past and may continue to issue equity securities to finance our activities in the future. We may not be able to sell shares or other securities in any offering at a price per share that is equal to or greater than the price per share previously paid by investors. In addition, outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock may be exercised and additional options and warrants may be issued, resulting in the issuance of additional shares of common stock. The issuance by us of additional equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common stock, may result in additional dilution to our stockholders, and even the perception that such an issuance may occur could have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock.. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors.. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. ·technological innovations or new products and services by or our competitors;. ·additions or departures of key personnel;. ·sales of our common stock, particularly under any registration statement for the purposes of selling any other securities, including management shares;. ·our ability to execute our business plan;. ·operating results that fall below expectations;. ·loss of any strategic relationship;. ·industry developments;. ·economic, political and other external factors; and. ·period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results.. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also significantly affect the market price of our common stock.. 25. Our stock price, and the stock price of many other life science companies, have suffered significant declines over the past 12 months.. Market prices for securities of life sciences companies, particularly companies like ours with limited product revenues, have been highly volatile and have suffered sharp losses over the past 12 months. As a result of these declines, it has become much harder for life sciences companies, like us, to raise money, as needed, in the capital markets. As such, should we desire to sell equity in the future to raise capital, such capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, any such capital raises could be highly dilutive to current stockholders. Depressed valuations of our stock will also make it harder for us to consummate strategic transactions or acquisitions, which have historically been a significant part of our growth strategy, absent significant dilution to our current investors.. We do not expect to pay dividends in the future if we do not consummate the Asset Sale Transaction. As a result, any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock.. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future if we do not consummate the Asset Sale. Our Credit Agreement prohibits us from paying cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. Even if we are permitted to pay cash dividends in the future, we currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth if we do not consummate the Asset Sale Transaction. As a result, an investor should not rely on an investment in our securities if such investor requires dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our shares may be the only source of gain on our securities for the foreseeable future. Moreover, an investor may not be able to re-sell such investor’s shares at or above the price paid for them.. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. The ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require us to identify material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving our stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. In addition, discovery and disclosure of a material weakness, by definition, could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Such an occurrence could discourage certain customers or suppliers from doing business with us, cause downgrades in our future debt ratings leading to higher borrowing costs and affect how our stock trades. This could, in turn, negatively affect our ability to access public debt or equity markets for capital.. Our board of directors can authorize the issuance of preferred stock, which could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock and make a change of control of it more difficult even if it might benefit our stockholders.. Our board of directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the voting powers, preferences and other rights and limitations of the preferred stock. Accordingly, we may issue shares of preferred stock with a preference over our common stock with respect to dividends or distributions on liquidation or dissolution, or that may otherwise adversely affect the voting or other rights of the holders of common stock. Issuances of preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations of the preferred stock, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, even if that change of control might benefit our stockholders.. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline.. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the public market, the supply of our common stock will increase, which could decrease the price of our common stock.. In addition, if our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, upon the expiration of any statutory holding period under Rule 144, upon the expiration of lock-up periods applicable to outstanding shares, or upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, it could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang,” in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate.. 26. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about it or our business. Although we currently have research coverage by securities and industry analysts, you should not invest in our common stock in anticipation that we will increase such coverage. If one or more of the analysts who covers us at any given time downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analyst’s ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline."
