[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below, which apply to us as an insurer, investor and a provider of other products and financial services.  Our risks have been categorized as follows: insurance industry, financial, investment, operational, regulatory and legal, and strategic risks.  These cautionary statements should be considered carefully together with other factors discussed elsewhere in this document, in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") or in materials incorporated therein by reference.. Insurance Industry Risks. Catastrophes and severe weather events may subject our property and casualty business to significant losses. Our property and casualty business may be exposed to catastrophic events such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, wildfires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, tropical storms, terrorism or industrial accidents which could cause operating results to vary significantly from one period to the next, despite the catastrophe management programs.  We may incur catastrophe losses in our auto and property business in excess of: (1) those experienced in prior years, (2) the average expected level used in pricing, (3) current reinsurance coverage limits, or (4) loss estimates from external hurricane and earthquake models at various levels of probability.  For example, our historical catastrophe experience includes losses relating to named storm Sandy in 2012 totaling $1.2 billion, Hurricane Katrina in 2005 totaling $3.6 billion and the Northridge earthquake of 1994 totaling $2.1 billion.  We are also exposed to assessments from the California Earthquake Authority, Texas Windstorm Insurance Association, various state-created insurance facilities, and to losses that could surpass the capitalization of these facilities.  Although we have historically financed the settlement of catastrophes from operating cash flows, including very large catastrophes that had complicated issues resulting in settlement delays, our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which could result in extraordinary losses or a downgrade of our debt or financial strength ratings.. In addition, we are subject to claims arising from weather events such as winter storms, rain, hail and high winds.  The incidence and severity of weather conditions are largely unpredictable.  There is generally an increase in the frequency and severity of auto and property claims when severe weather conditions occur.. Our property and casualty results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to limitations in the analytical models used to assess and predict the exposure to catastrophe losses. Along with others in the insurance industry, we use models developed by third party vendors as well as our own historic data in assessing our property insurance exposure to catastrophe losses.  These models assume various conditions and probability scenarios.  Such models do not necessarily accurately predict future. losses or measure losses currently incurred.  Catastrophe models use historical information and scientific research about hurricanes and earthquakes as well as detailed information about our in-force business.  We use this information in connection with pricing and risk management activities.  However, since actual catastrophic events vary considerably, there are limitations with respect to its usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period.  Other limitations are evident in significant variations in estimates between models, material increases and decreases in results due to model changes and refinements of the underlying data elements and actual conditions that are not yet well understood or may not be properly incorporated into the models.. Our catastrophe management strategy may adversely affect premium growth. Due to catastrophe risk management efforts, the size of our homeowners business has been negatively impacted in the past and may be negatively impacted if we take further actions.  Homeowners premium growth rates and retention could be adversely impacted by adjustments to our business structure, size and underwriting practices in markets with significant severe weather and catastrophe risk exposure.. Unexpected increases in the frequency or severity of property and casualty claims may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our property and casualty business may experience volatility in claim frequency from time to time, and short-term trends may not continue over the longer term.  Changes in auto claim frequency may result from changes in mix of business, miles driven, distracted driving or other macroeconomic factors.  A significant increase in claim frequency could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in bodily injury claim severity are impacted by inflation in medical costs, litigation trends and precedents, regulation and the overall safety of automobile travel.  Changes in auto property damage claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in the cost to repair vehicles, including parts and labor rates, the mix of vehicles that are declared total losses, model year mix as well as used car values.  Changes in homeowners claim severity are driven by inflation in the construction industry, building materials and home furnishings, changes in the mix of loss type, and by other economic and environmental factors, including short-term supply imbalances for services and supplies in areas affected by catastrophes.  Increases in claim severity can arise from unexpected events that are inherently difficult to predict.  Although we pursue various loss management initiatives to mitigate future increases in claim severity, there can be no assurances that these initiatives will successfully identify or reduce the effect of future increases in claim severity.. The Allstate Corporation    17. 2017 Form 10-K  Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and Other Disclosures. Changes in the level of price competition and the use of underwriting standards in the property and casualty business may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The property and casualty market historically has been cyclical with periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates.  A downturn in the profitability of the property and casualty business could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Additionally, we may increase premium rates and adopt tighter underwriting standards in response to underwriting results, which may result in a decline in new business and renewals and negatively impact our competitive position.. Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business. Market conditions beyond our control impact the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase.  No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as is currently available.  Our personal lines catastrophe reinsurance program was designed, utilizing our risk management methodology, to address our exposure to catastrophes nationwide.  For example, our ability to afford reinsurance to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be dependent upon our ability to adjust premium rates for its cost, and there are no assurances that the terms and rates for our current reinsurance program will continue to be available in future years.  If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient at acceptable prices, we would have to either accept an increase in our catastrophe exposure, reduce our insurance writings, or develop or seek other alternatives.. Reinsurance subjects us to risks of our reinsurers and may not be adequate to protect us against losses arising from ceded insurance, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The collectability of reinsurance recoverables is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including changes in market conditions, whether insured losses meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance contract and whether reinsurers, their affiliates, or certain regulatory bodies have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty or contract.  Additionally, reinsurance placed in the catastrophe bond market may not provide the same level of coverage as reinsurance placed in the traditional market.  Any disruption, volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets may decrease our ability to access such market on favorable terms or at all.  Our inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer could have. a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Changing climate and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, profitability or cash flows. Climate change, solar flares, eruption of volcanoes, El Niño, La Niña and other events to the extent any one of these produces changes in weather patterns may increase the frequency and severity of weather events and natural catastrophes.  For example, due to changing climate conditions, there may be an increase in the frequency and intensity of storms, tornadoes and hurricanes as well as wildfires and flooding in various geographic areas.  Additionally, there may be an impact on the demand, price and availability of automobile and homeowners insurance, reinsurance coverages as well as the value of our investment portfolio.  Due to significant variability associated with future changing climate conditions we are unable to predict the impact climate change will have on our business.. Underwriting changes and actual experience could materially affect profitability and financial condition of our life, voluntary benefits and annuity businesses. Our product pricing includes long-term assumptions regarding investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency and operating costs and expenses of the business.  We establish target returns for each product based upon these factors and the average amount of capital we must hold to support in-force contracts taking into account rating agencies and regulatory requirements.  We monitor and manage pricing and overall sales mix to achieve target new business returns on a portfolio basis, which could result in the discontinuation or de-emphasis of products and a decline in sales.  Profitability from new business emerges over a period of years depending on the nature and life of the product and is subject to variability as actual results may differ from pricing assumptions.  Additionally, many of our products have fixed or guaranteed terms that limit our ability to increase revenues or reduce benefits, including credited interest, once the product has been issued.. Many of our voluntary benefits employer contracts are renewed annually.  There is a risk that employers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could by renewing coverage with us.  These competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these products, as well as our ability to sell products.. Our profitability depends on the sufficiency of premiums and contract charges to cover mortality and morbidity benefits, the adequacy of investment spreads, the persistency of policies, the management of market and credit risks associated with investments, and the management of operating costs and expenses within anticipated pricing allowances.  Legislation and regulation of the insurance marketplace and products could also affect our profitability and financial condition.. 18    www.allstate.com"
