[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. We face many risks and uncertainties, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition (including capital and liquidity), or prospects or the value of or return on an investment in Ally. We believe that the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in this section, although we may be adversely affected by other risks or uncertainties that are not presently known to us, that we have failed to appreciate, or that we currently consider immaterial. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the MD&A in Part II, Item 7 of this report, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. 11. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. Risks Related to Regulation and Supervision. The regulatory and supervisory environment in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. We are subject to extensive regulatory frameworks and to direct supervision and periodic examinations by various government agencies and industry self-regulatory organizations that are charged with overseeing the kinds of business activities in which we engage. These regulatory and supervisory frameworks are designed to protect public or private interests - such as macroeconomic policy objectives, financial-market stability and liquidity, and the confidence and security of depositors - that may not always be aligned with those of our stockholders or non-deposit creditors. Refer to the section above titled Regulation and Supervision in Part I, Item 1 of this report. In the last decade, government scrutiny of the financial services industry has intensified, fundamental changes have been made to the banking, securities, and other laws that govern financial services, and a multitude of related business practices have been altered. While the scope, intensity, and focus of government oversight can vary from time to time, we expect to continue devoting substantial time and resources to risk management, compliance, regulatory change management, and cybersecurity and other technology initiatives, each of which may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably or to pursue advantageous business opportunities.. Ally operates as an FHC, which permits us to engage in a number of financial and related activities - including securities, advisory, insurance, and merchant-banking activities - beyond the business of banking. To remain eligible to do so, Ally and Ally Bank must remain well capitalized and well managed as defined under applicable law. If Ally or Ally Bank were found not to be well capitalized or well managed, we may be restricted from engaging in the broader range of financial and related activities permitted for FHCs and may be required to discontinue these activities or even divest Ally Bank. In addition, if we fail to achieve a satisfactory or better rating under the CRA, our ability to expand these financial and related activities or make acquisitions could be restricted.. In connection with their continuous supervision and examinations of us, the FRB, the UDFI, the CFPB, the SEC, FINRA, the NYDFS, or other regulatory agencies may require changes in our business or operations. Such a requirement may be judicially enforceable or impractical for us to contest, and if we are unable to implement or maintain the requirement in a timely and effective manner, we could become subject to formal or informal supervisory actions, including memoranda of understanding, written agreements, cease-and-desist orders, and prompt-corrective-action or safety-and-soundness directives. Supervisory actions could entail significant restrictions on our existing business, our ability to develop new business, our flexibility in conducting operations, and our ability to pay dividends or utilize capital. Supervisory actions also may result in the imposition of civil monetary penalties, the enforcement of supervisory requirements through injunctions or other administrative or judicial orders, related litigation by private plaintiffs, damage to our reputation, and a loss of investor confidence. We could be required as well to dispose of specified assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time. As a result, any supervisory action could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Our regulatory environment is not static. No assurance can be given that applicable statutes, regulations, or other laws will not be amended or construed differently, that new laws will not be adopted, or that any of these laws will not be enforced more aggressively. Changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including by limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer, enhancing the ability of others to offer more competitive financial services and products, restricting our ability to make acquisitions or pursue other profitable opportunities, and negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. Further, noncompliance with applicable laws could result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations that we need to operate and in the initiation of supervisory actions or private litigation.. Our ability to execute our business strategy for Ally Bank may be adversely affected by regulatory constraints.. A primary component of our business strategy is the continued growth of Ally Bank. This growth includes amassing a higher level of retail deposits, expanding our commercial lending, and originating increased volumes of consumer products such as residential mortgage loans. If our regulatory agencies raise concerns about any aspect of our business strategy for Ally Bank or the way in which we implement it - including any associated affiliate transactions that are governed and constrained by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act - we may be obliged to limit or even reverse the growth of Ally Bank or otherwise alter our strategy, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects. In addition, if we are compelled to retain or shift any of our business activities in or to nonbank affiliates, our funding costs for those activities - such as unsecured funding in the capital markets - could be more expensive than our cost of funds at Ally Bank.. We are subject to stress tests, capital and liquidity planning, and other enhanced prudential standards, which impose significant restrictions and costly requirements on our business and operations.. We are subject to the enhanced prudential standards that have been established by the FRB for BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, including capital planning requirements for large and noncomplex BHCs with total consolidated assets between $50 billion and $250 billion and total nonbank assets of less than $75 billion. As part of these enhanced prudential standards, Ally is subject to supervisory and company-run stress tests and must submit a proposed capital plan to the FRB annually in connection with its CCAR process. Refer to the section above titled Regulation and Supervision in Part I, Item 1 of this report. The proposed capital plan must include an assessment of our expected uses and sources of capital and a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any dividend or other capital distribution, and any similar action that the FRB determines could have an impact on Ally's capital. The proposed capital plan must also include a discussion of how Ally, under expected and stressful conditions, will maintain capital commensurate with its risks and above the minimum regulatory capital ratios and serve as a source. 12. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. of strength to Ally Bank. The FRB will either object to the proposed capital plan, in whole or in part, or provide notice of non-objection to Ally. The failure to receive a notice of non-objection from the FRB - whether due to how well our businesses and operations are forecasted to perform, how capably we execute our capital planning process, how acutely the FRB projects severely adverse conditions to be, or otherwise - may prohibit us from paying dividends, repurchasing our common stock, or making other capital distributions, may compel us to issue capital instruments that could be dilutive to stockholders, may prevent us from maintaining or expanding lending or other business activities, and may damage our reputation and result in a loss of investor confidence.. We may be required to raise capital as well if we are at risk of failing to satisfy our minimum regulatory capital ratios or other related supervisory requirements, whether due to inadequate operating results that erode capital, future growth that outpaces the accumulation of capital through earnings, changes in regulatory capital standards, or otherwise. In addition, we may elect to raise capital for strategic reasons even when not required to do so. Our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all will depend on general economic and market conditions, which are outside of our control, and on our operating and financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of being able to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. An inability to raise capital when needed and on favorable terms could damage the performance and value of our business, prompt supervisory actions, and harm our reputation, and if the condition were to persist for any appreciable period of time, our viability as a going concern could be threatened. Further, if we are able to raise capital and do so by issuing common stock or convertible securities, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders could be diluted, and the market price of our common stock could decline.. The enhanced prudential standards also require Ally to conduct liquidity stress tests and maintain a sufficient quantity of highly liquid assets to survive a projected 30-day liquidity stress event, to adopt a contingency funding plan that would address liquidity needs during various stress events, and to implement specified liquidity risk management and corporate governance measures. These enhanced liquidity standards, together with a quantitative minimum liquidity coverage ratio that we must satisfy as a complement to these standards, could constrain our ability to originate or invest in longer-term or less liquid assets or to take advantage of other profitable opportunities and, therefore, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects.. Additionally, the FRB has proposed rules to implement other enhanced prudential standards mandated by Sections 165 and 166 of the Dodd-Frank Act and related capital and liquidity requirements, including single-counterparty credit limits, an early remediation framework, and a quantitative minimum net stable funding ratio. Once adopted and implemented, these rules also could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects.. Our ability to rely on deposits as a part of our funding strategy may be limited.. Ally Bank is a key part of our funding strategy, and we place great reliance on deposits at Ally Bank as a source of funding. Competition for deposits and deposit customers, however, is fierce and has only intensified with the implementation of enhanced capital and liquidity requirements in the last decade. Ally Bank does not have a retail branch network but, instead, obtains its deposits through online and other direct banking, from customers of Ally Invest, and through deposit brokers. Brokered deposits may be more price sensitive than other types of deposits and may become less available if alternative investments offer higher returns. Brokered deposits totaled $15.2 billion at December 31, 2017, which represented 16% of Ally Bank's total deposits. In addition, our ability to maintain or grow direct banking deposits may be constrained by our lack of in-person banking services, changes in consumer trends, or any loss of confidence in our brand. Our level of deposits also could be adversely affected by regulatory or supervisory restrictions, including any applicable prior approval requirements or limits on our offered rates or brokered deposit growth, and by changes in monetary or fiscal policies that influence deposit or other interest rates. Perceptions of our financial strength, rates or returns offered by other financial institutions or third parties, and other competitive factors beyond our control, including returns on alternative investments, will also impact the size of our deposit base.. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and other financial-reform laws and policies on us remains unclear and unpredictable but could have a further adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects.. The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July 2010, and other financial-reform laws and policies have substantially changed the legal and supervisory frameworks under which we operate and have adversely affected our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Refer to the section above titled Regulation and Supervision in Part I, Item 1 of this report. While much in the Dodd-Frank Act has been implemented, some meaningful provisions remain subject to further rulemaking, transition periods, and the discretion of various regulatory agencies. Even provisions that have been implemented are or may become the subject of interpretive disputes, litigation, proposed legislative or regulatory amendments, or shifting supervisory priorities. For example, the CFPB - which was created by the Dodd-Frank Act - has aggressively enforced its positions on a wide range of consumer protection laws that affect our business, including in the context of indirect automotive lending. Some of these positions or their application in particular cases, however, have been contested by affected companies, as has the constitutionality of the structure of the CFPB itself. The outcomes of these matters and their impact on both the meaning of consumer protection laws and the enforcement powers and posture of the CFPB remain unclear and unpredictable but could adversely affect us. Recent changes in leadership within the CFPB have added to this lack of clarity and predictability. Similarly, the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and financial-reform laws and policies as whole on us cannot be predicted with any certainty and may not be known for a number of years, but individually or collectively, they may have a further adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects. In addition, these laws and policies may impact us differently than other financial institutions due to a number of factors, such as differences in activities, size, risk profile, complexity, or regulatory or supervisory status.. 13. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. Requirements under the U.S. Basel III rules to increase the quality and quantity of regulatory capital and future revisions to the Basel III framework may adversely affect our business and financial results.. In December 2010, the Basel Committee reached an agreement on the global Basel III capital framework, which was designed to increase the quality and quantity of regulatory capital by introducing new risk-based and leverage capital standards. In July 2013, the U.S. banking agencies finalized rules implementing the Basel III capital framework in the United States as well as related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The U.S. Basel III rules represent substantial revisions to the previously effective regulatory capital standards for U.S. banking organizations.. Ally and Ally Bank became subject to the U.S. Basel III rules on January 1, 2015, although a number of them - including new capital buffers and regulatory capital deductions - are subject to phase-in through December 31, 2018. The U.S. Basel III rules subject Ally and Ally Bank to higher minimum risk-based capital ratios and a capital conservation buffer above these minimum ratios. Failure to maintain the full amount of the buffer would result in restrictions on our ability to make capital distributions, including dividend payments and stock repurchases and redemptions, and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. The U.S. Basel III rules also will, over time, impose more stringent deductions for specified DTAs and other assets and limit our ability to meet regulatory capital requirements through the use of trust preferred securities or other hybrid securities.. If Ally or Ally Bank were to fail to satisfy its regulatory capital requirements, significant regulatory sanctions could result, such as a bar on acquisitions or new activities, a loss of our status as an FHC, informal or formal supervisory actions, or even resolution or receivership. Any of these sanctions could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects.. In December 2017, the Basel Committee approved revisions to the global Basel III capital framework (commonly known as Basel IV), many of which - if adopted in the United States - could heighten regulatory capital standards even more. At the same time, the U.S. banking agencies have proposed to simplify several elements of the U.S. Basel III rules. How these revisions and proposals will be harmonized and finalized in the United States is not clear or predictable, and no assurance can be provided that they would not further impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects in an adverse way.. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected by the political environment and governmental fiscal and monetary policies.. A fractious or volatile political environment in the United States, including any related social unrest, could negatively impact business and market conditions, economic growth, financial stability, and business, consumer, investor, and regulatory sentiments, any one or more of which in turn could cause our business and financial results to suffer. In addition, disruptions in the foreign relations of the United States could adversely affect the automotive and other industries on which our business depends and our tax positions and other dealings in foreign countries.. Our business and financial results are also significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States in pursuit of maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates. The FRB and its policies influence the availability and demand for loans and deposits, the rates and other terms for loans and deposits, the conditions in equity, fixed-income, currency, and other markets, and the value of securities and other financial instruments. Refer to the risk factor below, titled The levels of or changes in interest rates could affect our results of operations and financial condition, for more information on how the FRB could affect interest rates. These actions and policies, therefore, could adversely affect every facet of our business and operations - for example, the new and used vehicle financing market, the cost of our deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities, and the yield on our earning assets. Tax and other fiscal policies, moreover, impact not only general economic and market conditions but also give rise to incentives or disincentives that affect how we and our customers prioritize objectives, deploy resources, and run households or operate businesses. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Tax Act) is expected to significantly affect these incentives and disincentives, including by revising corporate and individual tax rates, altering the deductibility of net interest expense and capital outlays, and limiting the deductibility of state and local taxes as well as interest on residential mortgage loans. The direct and indirect effects of the Tax Act on us and our customers have not yet been holistically assessed, but changes in borrowing patterns, asset valuations, and other economic and market conditions could result and adversely impact our business and financial results. Both the timing and the nature of any changes in monetary or fiscal policies, as well as their consequences for the economy and the markets in which we operate, are beyond our control and difficult to predict but could adversely affect us.. If our ability to receive distributions from subsidiaries is restricted, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to counterparties or creditors, make dividend payments to stockholders, or repurchase our common stock.. Ally is a legal entity separate and distinct from its bank and nonbank subsidiaries and, in significant part, depends on dividend payments and other distributions from those subsidiaries to fund its obligations to counterparties and creditors, its dividend payments to stockholders, and its repurchases of common stock. Refer to the section above titled Regulation and Supervision in Part I, Item 1 of this report. Regulatory or other legal restrictions, deterioration in a subsidiary's performance, or investments in a subsidiary's own growth may limit the ability of the subsidiary to transfer funds freely to Ally. In particular, many of Ally's subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize their supervisory agencies to block or reduce the flow of funds to Ally in certain situations. In addition, if any subsidiary were unable to remain viable as a going concern, Ally's right to participate in a distribution of assets would be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors (including, in the case of Ally Bank, its depositors and the FDIC).. 14. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. Legislative or regulatory initiatives on cybersecurity and data privacy could adversely impact our business and financial results.. Cybersecurity and data privacy risks have received heightened legislative and regulatory attention. For example, the U.S. banking agencies have proposed enhanced cyber risk management standards that would apply to us and our service providers and that would address cyber risk governance and management, management of internal and external dependencies, and incident response, cyber resilience, and situational awareness. Several states also have adopted or proposed cybersecurity laws targeting these issues.. Legislation and regulations on cybersecurity and data privacy may compel us to enhance or modify our systems, invest in new systems, change our service providers, or alter our business practices or our policies on data governance and privacy. If any of these outcomes were to occur, our operational costs could increase significantly. In addition, if government authorities were to conclude that we or our service providers had not adequately implemented laws on cybersecurity and data privacy or had not otherwise met related supervisory expectations, we could be subject to supervisory actions, related litigation by private plaintiffs, reputational damage, or a loss of investor confidence.. Risks Related to Our Business. Weak or deteriorating economic conditions, failures in underwriting, changes in underwriting standards, financial or systemic shocks, or growth in our nonprime or used vehicle financing business could increase our credit risk, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our business is centered around lending and banking, and a significant percentage of our assets are composed of loans, leases, and securities. As a result, credit risk is our most pronounced risk.. Our business and financial results depend significantly on household, business, economic, and market conditions. When those conditions are weak or deteriorating, we could simultaneously experience reduced demand for credit and increased delinquencies or defaults, including in the loans that we have securitized and in which we retain a residual interest. These kinds of conditions also could dampen the demand for products and services in our insurance, banking, brokerage, and other businesses. Increased delinquencies or defaults could result as well from us failing to appropriately underwrite loans that we originate or purchase or from us adopting - for strategic, competitive, or other reasons - more liberal underwriting standards. If delinquencies or defaults on our loans increase, their value and the income derived from them could be adversely affected, and we could incur increased administrative and other costs in seeking a recovery on claims and any collateral. If unfavorable conditions are negatively affecting used vehicle or other collateral values at the same time, the amount and timing of recoveries could suffer as well. Weak or deteriorating economic conditions also may negatively impact the market value and liquidity of our investment securities, and we may be required to record additional impairment charges that adversely affect earnings if investment securities suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. There can be no assurance that our monitoring of our credit risk and our efforts to mitigate credit risk through risk-based pricing, appropriate underwriting and investment policies, loss-mitigation strategies, and diversification are, or will be, sufficient to prevent an adverse impact to our business and financial results. A financial or systemic shock and a failure of a significant counterparty or a significant group of counterparties could negatively impact us as well, possibly to a severe degree, due to our role as a financial intermediary and the interconnectedness of the financial system.. We continue to have exposure to nonprime consumer automotive financing and used vehicle financing. We define nonprime consumer automotive loans primarily as those loans with a FICO® Score (or an equivalent score) at origination of less than 620. Customers that finance used vehicles tend to have lower FICO® Scores as compared to new vehicle customers, and defaults resulting from vehicle breakdowns are more likely to occur with used vehicles as compared to new vehicles that are financed. The carrying value of our nonprime consumer automotive loans before allowance for loan losses was $8.8 billion, or approximately 12.9% of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2017, as compared to $9.1 billion, or approximately 13.8% of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2016. At December 31, 2017, and 2016, $204 million and $211 million, respectively, of nonprime consumer automotive loans were considered nonperforming as they had been placed on nonaccrual status in accordance with our accounting policies. Refer to the Nonaccrual Loans section of Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Additionally, the carrying value of our consumer automotive used vehicle loans before allowance for loan losses was $31.8 billion, or approximately 46.8% of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2017, as compared to $28.5 billion, or approximately 43.4% of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2016. If our exposure to nonprime consumer automotive loans or used vehicle financing were to increase over time, our credit risk will increase to a possibly significant degree.. As part of the underwriting process, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and the misrepresentation is not detected before completing the transaction, we may experience increased credit risk from having engaged in the transaction.. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to significantly increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expenses and which represents management's best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The allowance is established to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. Any increase in the allowance results in an associated decrease in net income and capital and, if significant, may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing quantitative and qualitative information, all of which may change substantially over time. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, revisions to accounting rules and related guidance, new qualitative or quantitative information about existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, changes in the size or composition of our loan portfolio, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. For example, our shift to a full credit spectrum retail automotive finance portfolio mix has increased our allowance for loan losses and could result in additional increases in our allowance for loan losses in the future.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, Financial Instruments  -  Credit Losses (CECL), which introduces a new accounting model to measure credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost, such as the vast majority of our finance receivables and loan portfolio. Under CECL, credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost should be determined based on the total current expected credit losses over the life of the financial asset or group of financial assets. In effect, this means that the financial asset or group of financial assets should be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. CECL will become effective on January 1, 2020, and represents a significant departure from existing accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), which currently provide for credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost to be measured as they are incurred. When effective, CECL is likely to materially increase our allowance for loan losses with a resulting negative adjustment to equity. This increase to the allowance for loan losses could also adversely impact our regulatory capital position if the FRB and other U.S. banking agencies do not amend existing regulatory capital rules to relieve us from the capital impact associated with the negative adjustment to equity. Refer to the risk factor above, titled Requirements under the U.S. Basel III rules to increase the quality and quantity of regulatory capital and future revisions to the Basel III framework may adversely affect our business and financial results, for more information about the consequences of our failure to satisfy regulatory capital requirements.. Regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses, as well as our methodology for calculating our allowance for loan losses, and from time to time may insist on an increase in the allowance for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of management. If these differences in judgment are considerable, our allowance could meaningfully increase and result in a sizable decrease in our net income and capital.. We have dealer-centric automotive finance and insurance businesses, and a change in the key role of dealers within the automotive industry or our ability to maintain or build relationships with them could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects.. Our Dealer Financial Services business, which includes our Automotive Finance and Insurance segments, depends on the continuation of the key role of dealers within the automotive industry, the maintenance of our existing relationships with dealers, and our creation of new relationships with dealers. Refer to the section titled Our Business in the MD&A that follows.. A number of trends are affecting the automotive industry and the role of dealers within it. These include challenges to the dealer's role as intermediary between manufacturers and purchasers, the rise of vehicle sharing and ride hailing, the development of autonomous and alternative-energy vehicles, the impact of demographic shifts on attitudes and behaviors toward vehicle ownership and use, changing expectations around the vehicle buying experience, adjustments in the geographic distribution of new and used vehicle sales, and advancements in communications technology. Any one or more of these trends could adversely affect the key role of dealers and their business models, profitability, and viability, and if this were to occur, our dealer-centric automotive finance and insurance businesses could suffer as well.. While the number of dealers with whom we have retail relationships increased during 2017, the number of dealers with whom we have wholesale relationships decreased approximately 5% as compared to December 31, 2016. Further, our share of commercial wholesale financing remains at risk of decreasing in the future as a result of intense competition and other factors. If we are not able to maintain existing relationships with significant automotive dealers or if we are not able to develop new relationships for any reason - including if we are not able to provide services on a timely basis, offer products that meet the needs of the dealers, compete successfully with the products and services of our competitors, or effectively counter the exclusivity privileges that some competitors have with automotive manufacturers - our wholesale funding volumes, and the number of dealers with whom we have retail funding relationships, could decline in the future. If this were to occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects could be adversely affected.. General Motors Company (GM) and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles US LLC (Chrysler) dealers and their retail customers continue to constitute a significant portion of our customer base, which creates concentration risk for us.. While we have diversified - and are continuing to diversify - our automotive finance and insurance businesses and to expand into other financial services, GM and Chrysler dealers and their retail customers continue to constitute a significant portion of our customer base. In 2017, 56% of our new vehicle dealer inventory financing and 32% of our consumer automotive financing volume were transacted for GM-franchised dealers and customers, and 28% of our new vehicle dealer inventory financing and 28% of our consumer automotive financing volume were transacted for Chrysler dealers and customers. GM, Chrysler, and their captive automotive finance companies compete forcefully with us and could take further actions that negatively impact the amount of business that we do with GM and Chrysler dealers and their retail customers. Further, a significant adverse change in GM's or Chrysler's business - including, for example, in the production or sale of GM or Chrysler vehicles, the quality or resale value of GM or Chrysler vehicles, GM's or Chrysler's relationships with its key suppliers, or. 16. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. the rate or volume of recalls of GM or Chrysler vehicles - could negatively impact our GM and Chrysler dealer and retail customer bases. Any future reductions in GM and Chrysler business that we are not able to offset could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our business and financial results are dependent upon overall U.S. automotive industry sales volume.. Our automotive finance and insurance businesses can be impacted by the sales volume for new and used vehicles. Vehicle sales are impacted, in turn, by several economic and market conditions, including employment levels, household income, interest rates, credit availability, and fuel costs. For example, new vehicle sales decreased dramatically during the economic crisis that began in 2007 - 2008 and did not rebound significantly until 2012 and 2013. Any future declines in new or used vehicle sales could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Vehicle loans and leases make up a significant part of our earning assets, and our business and financial results could suffer if used vehicle prices are low or volatile or decrease in the future.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, more than 69% of our average earning assets were composed of vehicle loans or leases or related residual securitization interests. If we experience higher losses on the sale of repossessed vehicles or lower or more volatile residual values for off-lease vehicles, our business or financial results could be adversely affected.. General economic conditions, the supply of off-lease and other vehicles to be sold, relative market prices for new and used vehicles, perceived vehicle quality, overall vehicle prices, the vehicle disposition channel, volatility in gasoline or diesel fuel prices, levels of household income, interest rates, and other factors outside of our control heavily influence used vehicle prices. Consumer confidence levels and the strength of automotive manufacturers and dealers can also influence the used vehicle market. For example, when the recent economic crisis began in 2007 - 2008, sharp declines in used vehicle demand and sale prices adversely affected our remarketing proceeds and financial results.. Our expectation of the residual value of a vehicle subject to an automotive lease contract is a critical element used to determine the amount of the lease payments under the contract at the time the customer enters into it. As a result, to the extent that the actual residual value of the vehicle - as reflected in the sale proceeds received upon remarketing at lease termination - is less than the expected residual value for the vehicle at lease inception, we will incur additional depreciation expense and lower profit on the lease transaction than our priced expectation. Our expectation of used vehicle values is also a factor in determining our pricing of new loan and lease originations. To the extent that used vehicle prices are significantly lower than our expectations, our profit on vehicle loans and leases could be substantially less than our expectations, even more so if our estimate of loss frequency is underestimated as well. In addition, we could be adversely affected if we fail to efficiently process and effectively market off-lease vehicles and repossessed vehicles and, as a consequence, incur higher-than-expected disposal costs or lower-than-expected proceeds from the vehicle sales.. The levels of or changes in interest rates could affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are highly dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on earning assets (such as loans and investments) and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest, which in turn are influenced by monetary and fiscal policies, general economic and market conditions, the political and regulatory environments, business and consumer sentiment, competitive pressures, and expectations about the future (including future changes in interest rates). We may be adversely affected by policies, laws, or events that have the effect of flattening or inverting the yield curve (that is, the difference between long-term and short-term interest rates), depressing the interest rates associated with our earning assets to levels near the rates associated with our interest expense, or changing the spreads among different interest rate indices.. The levels of or changes in interest rates could adversely affect us beyond our net interest income, including the following:. • increase the cost or decrease the availability of deposits or other variable-rate funding instruments;. • reduce the return on or demand for loans or increase the prepayment speed of loans;. • increase customer or counterparty delinquencies or defaults;. • negatively impact our ability to remarket off-lease and repossessed vehicles; and. • reduce the value of our loans, retained interests in securitizations, and fixed-income securities in our investment portfolio and the efficacy of our hedging strategies.. The level of and changes in market rates of interest - and, as a result, these risks and uncertainties - are beyond our control. The dynamics among these risks and uncertainties are also challenging to assess and manage. For example, while an accommodative monetary policy may benefit us to some degree by spurring economic activity among our customers, such a policy may ultimately cause us more harm by inhibiting our ability to grow or sustain net interest income. A rising interest rate environment can pose different challenges, such as potentially slowing the demand for credit, increasing delinquencies and defaults, and reducing the values of our loans and fixed-income securities. Following a prolonged period in which the federal funds rate was stable or decreasing, the FRB has begun to increase this benchmark rate. In addition, the FRB has begun to end its quantitative-easing program and reduce the size of its balance sheet, which is also. 17. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. expected to exert upward pressure on interest rates. Refer to the section titled Market Risk in the MD&A that follows and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. Uncertainty about the future of the London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR) may adversely affect our business and financial results.. LIBOR meaningfully influences market interest rates around the globe. In July 2017, the Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced its intent to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR to the administrator of LIBOR after 2021. This announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR as currently constructed is not guaranteed after 2021. It is impossible to predict whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide LIBOR submissions to the administrator of LIBOR, whether any additional reforms to LIBOR may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere, and whether other rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to LIBOR. No assurance can be provided that these uncertainties or their resolution will not adversely affect the use, level, and volatility of LIBOR or other interest rates or the value of LIBOR-based securities - including Ally's 8.125% Fixed Rate/Floating Rate Trust Preferred Securities, Series 2 - or other securities or financial arrangements. These uncertainties or their resolution also could negatively impact our funding costs, loan and other asset values, asset-liability management strategies, and other aspects of our business and financial results.. We rely extensively on third-party service providers in delivering products and services to our customers and otherwise conducting our business and operations, and their failure to perform to our standards or other issues of concern with them could adversely affect our reputation, business, and financial results.. Third-party service providers are key to much of our business and operations, including online and mobile banking, mortgage finance, brokerage, customer service, and operating systems and infrastructure. While we have implemented a supplier-risk-management program and can exert varying degrees of influence over our service providers, we do not control them, their actions, or their businesses. No assurance can be provided, therefore, that service providers will perform to our standards, adequately represent our brand, comply with applicable law, appropriately manage their own risks, remain financially or operationally viable, or continue to provide us with the services that we require. In such a circumstance, our ability to deliver products and services to customers, to satisfy customer expectations, and to otherwise successfully conduct our business and operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we may need to incur substantial expenses to address issues of concern with a service provider, and even if the issues cannot be acceptably resolved, we may not be able to timely or effectively replace the service provider due to contractual restrictions, the unavailability of acceptable alternative providers, or other reasons. Further, regardless of how much we can influence our service providers, issues of concern with them could result in supervisory actions against us and could harm our reputation, business, and financial results.. Our operating systems or infrastructure, as well as those of our service providers or others on whom we rely, could fail or be interrupted, which could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and prospects.. We rely heavily upon communications, data management, and other operating systems and infrastructure to conduct our business and operations, which creates meaningful operational risk for us. Any failure of or interruption in these systems or infrastructure or those of our service providers or others on whom we rely - including as a result of inadequate or failed technology or processes, unplanned or unsuccessful updates to technology, sudden increases in transaction volume, human errors, fraud or other misconduct, deficiencies in the integration of acquisitions or the commencement of new businesses, energy or similar infrastructure outages, disruptions in communications networks or systems, natural disasters, catastrophic events, pandemics, acts of terrorism, political or social unrest, external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, cyberattacks such as computer viruses and malware, misplaced or lost data, or breakdowns in business continuity plans - could cause failures or delays in receiving applications for loans, underwriting or processing loans, servicing loans, accessing online accounts, processing transactions, executing brokerage orders, communicating with our customers, managing our investment portfolio, or otherwise conducting our business and operations. These adverse effects could be exacerbated if systems or infrastructure need to be taken offline or meaningfully repaired, if backup systems or infrastructure are not adequately redundant and effective for the conduct of our business and operations, or if technological or other solutions do not exist or are slow to be developed. Further, to the extent that the systems or infrastructure of service providers or others are involved, we may have little or no control or influence over how and when failures or delays are addressed. As a digital financial services company, we are susceptible to business, reputational, financial, regulatory, and other harm as a result of these risks.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, store, process, and transmit sensitive, confidential, or proprietary data and other information, including business information, intellectual property, and the personally identifiable information of customers and employees. The secure collection, storage, processing, and transmission of this information are critical to our business and reputation, and if any of this information were mishandled, misused, improperly accessed, lost, or stolen or if related operations were disabled or otherwise disrupted, we could suffer significant business, reputational, financial, regulatory, and other damage.. Even when a failure of or interruption in operating systems or infrastructure is timely resolved, we may need to expend substantial resources in doing so, may be required to take actions that could adversely affect customer satisfaction or behavior, and may be exposed to reputational damage. We also could be exposed to contractual claims, supervisory actions, or litigation by private plaintiffs.. We face a wide array of security risks that could result in business, reputational, financial, regulatory, and other harm to us.. Our operating systems and infrastructure, as well as those of our service providers or others on whom we rely, are subject to security risks that are rapidly evolving and increasing in scope and complexity, in part, because of the introduction of new technologies, the expanded. 18. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. use of the internet and telecommunications technologies (including mobile devices) to conduct financial and other business transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of hostile state-sponsored actors, organized crime, perpetrators of fraud, hackers, terrorists, and others. We along with other financial institutions, our service providers, and others on whom we rely are especially likely to be the target of cyberattacks, including computer viruses, malware, malicious or destructive code, phishing or spearphishing attacks, denial-of-service or denial-of-information attacks, ransomware, identity theft, access violations by employees or vendors, attacks on the personal email of employees, and ransom demands accompanied by threats to expose security vulnerabilities. We, our service providers, and others on whom we rely are also exposed to more traditional security threats to physical facilities and personnel.. These security risks could result in business, reputational, financial, regulatory, and other harm to us. For example, if sensitive, confidential, or proprietary data or other information about us or our customers or employees were improperly accessed or destroyed because of a security breach, we could experience business or operational disruptions, reputational damage, contractual claims, supervisory actions, or litigation by private plaintiffs. As security threats evolve, moreover, we expect to continue expending significant resources to enhance our defenses, to educate our employees, to monitor and support the defenses established by our service providers and others on whom we rely, and to investigate and remediate incidents and vulnerabilities as they arise or are identified. Even so, we may not be able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches, especially because techniques change frequently and attacks can originate with no warning from a wide variety of sources around the globe. A sophisticated breach, moreover, may not be identified until well after the attack has occurred and the damage has been caused.. We also could be adversely affected by security risks faced by others. For example, a cyberattack or other security breach affecting a service provider or another entity on whom we rely could negatively impact us and our ability to conduct business and operations just as much as a breach affecting us directly. Even worse, in such a circumstance, we may not receive timely notice of or information about the breach or be able to exert any meaningful control or influence over how and when the breach is addressed. In addition, a security threat affecting the business community, the markets, or parts of them may cycle or cascade through the financial system and harm us. The mere perception of a security breach involving any part of the financial services industry, whether or not true, also could damage our business and operations.. Many if not all of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control. Refer to section titled Risk Management in the MD&A that follows.. We are heavily reliant on technology, and a failure in effectively implementing technology initiatives or anticipating future technology needs or demands could adversely affect our business or financial results.. We significantly depend on technology to deliver our products and services and to otherwise conduct our business and operations. To remain technologically competitive and operationally efficient, we invest in system upgrades, new solutions, and other technology initiatives. Many of these initiatives take a significant amount of time to develop and implement, are tied to critical systems, and require substantial financial, human, and other resources. Although we take steps to mitigate the risks and uncertainties associated with these initiatives, no assurance can be provided that they will be implemented on time, within budget, or without negative operational or customer impact or that, once implemented, they will perform as we or our customers expect. We also may not succeed in anticipating or keeping pace with future technology needs, the technology demands of customers, or the competitive landscape for technology. If we were to misstep in any of these areas, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted.. Our enterprise, compliance, and other risk management programs or functions may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss.. We maintain an independent enterprise risk management program that is designed to identify, measure, assess, monitor, report, and mitigate the risks that we face. These include credit, insurance/underwriting, vehicle-residual, market, liquidity, business/strategic, reputation, and operational risks. We also maintain a compliance risk management program to identify, measure, assess, monitor, and report on our adherence to applicable law, policies, and procedures. There can be no assurance that our frameworks or models for enterprise, compliance, and other risk management and related controls - including the scope and amount of our insurance and reinsurance coverage - will effectively mitigate risk and limit losses in our business and operations. If conditions or circumstances arise that expose flaws or gaps in our enterprise, compliance, or other risk management programs or if our controls break down, the performance and value of our business and operations could be adversely affected. We could be negatively impacted as well if, despite adequate programs being in place, our risk management or compliance personnel are ineffective in executing them and mitigating risk and loss. Refer to the section titled Risk Management in the MD&A that follows.. We are or may be subject to potential liability in connection with pending or threatened legal proceedings and other matters, which could adversely affect our business or financial results.. We are involved from time to time in a variety of judicial, alternative-dispute, and other proceedings arising out of our business and operations. These legal matters may be formal or informal and include litigation and arbitration with one or more identified claimants, certified or purported class actions with yet-to-be-identified claimants, and regulatory or other governmental information-gathering requests, examinations, investigations, and enforcement proceedings. Our legal matters exist in varying stages of adjudication, arbitration, negotiation, or investigation and span our lines of business and operations. Claims may be based in law or equity - such as those arising under contracts or in tort and those involving banking, consumer protection, securities, tax, employment, and other laws - and some can present novel legal theories and allege substantial or indeterminate damages.. 19. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. The course and outcome of legal matters are inherently unpredictable. This is especially so when a matter is still in its early stages, the damages sought are indeterminate or unsupported, significant facts are unclear or disputed, novel questions of law or other meaningful legal uncertainties exist, a request to certify a proceeding as a class action is outstanding or granted, multiple parties are named, or regulatory or other governmental entities are involved. As a result, we often are unable to determine how or when threatened or pending legal matters will be resolved and what losses may be incurred. Actual losses may be higher or lower than any amounts accrued or estimated for those matters, possibly to a significant degree. Refer to Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, while we maintain insurance policies to mitigate the cost of litigation and other proceedings, these policies have deductibles, limits, and exclusions that may diminish their value or efficacy. Substantial legal claims, even if not meritorious, could have a detrimental impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could cause us reputational harm.. Our inability to attract, retain, or motivate qualified employees could adversely affect our business or financial results.. Skilled employees are our most important resource, and competition for talented people is intense. Even though compensation and benefits expense is among our highest expenses, we may not be able to locate and hire the best people, keep them with us, or properly motivate them to perform at a high level. Recent scrutiny of compensation practices, especially in the financial services industry, has made this only more difficult. In addition, many parts of our business are particularly dependent on key personnel. If we were to lose and find ourselves unable to replace these personnel or other skilled employees or if the competition for talent were to drive our compensation costs to unsustainable levels, our business and financial results could be negatively impacted.. Our ability to successfully make opportunistic acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the risk that government authorities will not provide the requisite approvals, the risk that integrating acquisitions may be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and the risk that the value of acquisitions may be less than anticipated.. We may from time to time seek to make opportunistic acquisitions of other financial services companies or businesses. These acquisitions may be subject to regulatory approval, and no assurance can be provided that we will be able to obtain that approval in a timely manner or at all. Even when we are able to obtain regulatory approval, the failure of other closing conditions to be satisfied or waived could delay the completion of an acquisition for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring altogether. Any failure or delay in closing an acquisition could adversely affect our reputation, business, and performance.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including lower-than-expected performance or higher-than-expected costs, difficulties related to integration, diversion of management's attention from other business activities, changes in relationships with customers or counterparties, and the potential loss of key employees. An acquisition also could be dilutive to our existing stockholders if we were to issue common stock to fully or partially pay or fund the purchase price. We, moreover, may not be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition candidates, integrating acquired companies or businesses, or realizing expected value from acquisitions. There is significant competition for valuable acquisition targets, and we may not be able to acquire other companies or businesses on attractive terms. No assurance can be given that we will pursue future acquisitions, and our ability to grow and successfully compete may be impaired if we choose not to pursue or are unable to successfully make acquisitions.. Our business requires substantial capital and liquidity, and a disruption in our funding sources or access to the capital markets may have an adverse effect on our liquidity, capital positions, and financial condition.. Liquidity is the ability to fund increases in assets and meet obligations as they come due, all without incurring unacceptable losses. Banks are especially vulnerable to liquidity risk because of their role in the maturity transformation of demand or short-term deposits into longer-term loans or other extensions of credit. We, like other financial services companies, rely to a significant extent on external sources of funding (such as deposits and borrowings) for the liquidity needed to conduct our business and operations. A number of factors beyond our control, however, could have a detrimental impact on the availability or cost of that funding and thus on our liquidity. These include market disruptions, changes in our credit ratings or the sentiment of our investors, the state of the regulatory environment and monetary and fiscal policies, reputational damage, financial or systemic shocks, and significant counterparty failures. Unexpected declines or limits on dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries also could adversely affect Ally's liquidity position.. We have significant maturities of unsecured debt each year. While we have reduced our reliance on unsecured funding in recent years, it remains an important component of our capital structure and financing plans. At December 31, 2017, approximately $3.6 billion in principal amount of total outstanding consolidated unsecured debt is scheduled to mature in 2018, and approximately $1.7 billion and $2.3 billion is scheduled to mature in 2019 and 2020, respectively. We also obtain short-term funding from the sale of floating-rate demand notes, all of which the holders may elect to have redeemed at any time without restriction. At December 31, 2017, approximately $3.2 billion in principal amount of demand notes were outstanding, which is not included in the amount of unsecured debt described above. We also rely substantially on secured funding. At December 31, 2017, approximately $7.5 billion in principal amount of total outstanding consolidated secured long-term debt is scheduled to mature in 2018, approximately $8.4 billion is scheduled to mature in 2019, and approximately $6.9 billion is scheduled to mature in 2020. Furthermore, at December 31, 2017, approximately $28.8 billion in certificates of deposit at Ally Bank are scheduled to mature in 2018, which is not included in the amounts provided above. Additional funding, whether through deposits or borrowings, will be required to fund a substantial portion of the debt maturities over these periods.. We continue to rely as well on our ability to borrow from other financial institutions, and many of our primary bank facilities are up for renewal on a yearly basis. Any weakness in market conditions, tightening of credit availability, or other events referenced earlier in this risk factor could have a negative effect on our ability to refinance these facilities and could increase the costs of bank funding. Ally and Ally Bank. 20. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. also continue to access the securitization markets. While those markets have continued to stabilize following the liquidity crisis that commenced in 2007 - 2008, there can be no assurances that these sources of liquidity will remain available to us.. Our policies and controls are designed to ensure that we maintain adequate liquidity to conduct our business in the ordinary course even in a stressed environment. There is no guarantee, however, that our liquidity position will never become compromised. In such an event, we may be required to sell assets at a loss or reduce loan and lease originations in order to continue operations. This could damage the performance and value of our business, prompt regulatory intervention, and harm our reputation, and if the condition were to persist for any appreciable period of time, our viability as a going concern could be threatened. Refer to section titled Liquidity Management, Funding, and Regulatory Capital in the MD&A that follows and Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. Our indebtedness and other obligations are significant and could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness apart from deposit liabilities. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $56.8 billion in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding (including $36.9 billion in secured indebtedness). Interest expense on our indebtedness constituted approximately 21% of our total financing revenue and other interest income for the year ended December 31, 2017. We also have the ability to create additional indebtedness.. If our debt service obligations increase, whether due to the increased cost of existing indebtedness or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes. Our indebtedness also could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. In addition, if we are unable to satisfy our indebtedness and other obligations in full and on time, our business, reputation, and value as a going concern could be profoundly and perhaps inexorably damaged.. The markets for automotive financing, insurance, banking (including corporate finance and mortgage finance), and brokerage are extremely competitive, and competitive pressures could adversely affect our business and financial results.. The markets for automotive financing, insurance, banking (including corporate finance and mortgage finance), and brokerage are highly competitive, and we expect competitive pressures only to intensify in the future, especially in light of the regulatory and supervisory environments in which we operate, technological innovations that alter the barriers to entry, current and evolving economic and market conditions, changing customer preferences and consumer and business sentiment, and government monetary and fiscal policies. Refer to the section above titled Industry and Competition in Part I, Item 1 of this report. Competitive pressures may drive us to take actions that we might otherwise eschew, such as lowering the interest rates or fees on loans, raising the interest rates on deposits, or adopting more liberal underwriting standards. These pressures also may accelerate actions that we might otherwise elect to defer, such as substantial investments in systems or infrastructure. Whatever the reason, actions that we take in response to competition may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These consequences could be exacerbated if we are not successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of our products and services, developing and maintaining a strong customer base, or prudently managing expenses.. Our borrowing costs and access to the banking and capital markets could be negatively impacted if our credit ratings are downgraded or otherwise fail to meet investor expectations or demands.. The cost and availability of our funding are meaningfully affected by our short- and long-term credit ratings. Each of Standard & Poor's Rating Services, Moody's Investors Service, Inc., Fitch, Inc., and Dominion Bond Rating Service rates some or all of our debt, and these ratings reflect the rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet our obligations. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security and may be revised or withdrawn at any time. Each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating.. Some of our current credit ratings are below investment grade, which negatively impacts our access to liquidity and increases our borrowing costs in the banking and capital markets. If our credit ratings were to be downgraded further or were to otherwise fail to meet investor expectations or demands, our borrowing costs and access to the banking and capital markets could become even more challenging and, as a result, negatively affect our business and financial results. In addition, downgrades of our credit ratings or their failure to meet investor expectations or demands could result in more restrictive terms and conditions being added to any new or replacement financing arrangements as well as trigger disadvantageous provisions of existing borrowing arrangements.. Challenging business, economic, or market conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our businesses are driven by wealth creation in the economy, robust market activity, monetary and fiscal stability, and positive investor, business, and consumer sentiment. A downturn in economic conditions, disruptions in the equity or debt markets, high unemployment or underemployment, depressed vehicle or housing prices, unsustainable debt levels, unfavorable changes in interest rates, declines in household incomes, deteriorating consumer or business sentiment, consumer or commercial bankruptcy filings, or declines in the strength of national or local economies could decrease demand for our products and services, increase the amount and rate of delinquencies and losses, raise our operating and other expenses, and negatively impact the returns on and the value of our loans, investment portfolio, and other assets. Further, if a significant and sustained increase in fuel prices or other adverse conditions were to lead to diminished new and used vehicle purchases or prices, our automotive finance and insurance businesses could suffer considerably. In addition, concerns about the pace of economic growth. 21. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. and uncertainty about fiscal and monetary policies can result in significant volatility in the financial markets and could impact our ability to obtain cost-effective funding. If any of these events were to occur or worsen, our business, results of operation, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Acts or threats of terrorism, natural disasters, and other conditions or events beyond our control could adversely affect us.. Geopolitical conditions, natural disasters, and other conditions or events beyond our control may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects. For example, acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken in response to terrorism could adversely affect general economic, business, or market conditions and, in turn, us. We also could be negatively impacted if our key personnel, a significant number of our employees, or our systems or infrastructure were to become unavailable or damaged due to a pandemic, natural disaster, war, act of terrorism, accident, or similar cause. These same risks and uncertainties arise too for the service providers and counterparties on whom we depend as well as their own third-party service providers and counterparties.. Significant repurchases or indemnification payments in our securitizations or whole-loan sales could harm our profitability and financial condition.. We have repurchase and indemnification obligations in our securitizations and whole-loan sales. If we were to breach a representation, warranty, or covenant in connection with a securitization or whole-loan sale, we may be required to repurchase the affected loans or leases or otherwise compensate investors or purchasers for losses caused by the breach. If the scale or frequency of repurchases or indemnification payments were to increase substantially from its present levels, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In such a circumstance, we also could suffer reputational damage, become subject to stricter supervisory scrutiny, and find our access to capital and banking markets more limited or more costly.. Our business and operations make extensive use of models, and we could be adversely affected if our design, implementation, or use of models is flawed.. We use quantitative models to price products and services, measure risk, estimate asset and liability values, assess capital and liquidity, manage our balance sheet, create financial forecasts, and otherwise conduct our business and operations. If the design, implementation, or use of any of these models is flawed, we could make strategic or tactical decisions based on incorrect, misleading, or incomplete information. In addition, to the extent that any inaccurate model outputs are used in reports to banking agencies or the public, we could be subjected to supervisory actions, litigation, and other proceedings that may adversely affect our business and financial results. Refer to section titled Risk Management in the MD&A that follows.. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our interest rate, foreign exchange, and market risks, which could adversely affect our financial results.. We employ various hedging strategies to mitigate the interest rate, foreign exchange, and market risks inherent in many of our assets and liabilities. Our hedging strategies rely considerably on assumptions and projections regarding our assets and liabilities as well as general market factors. If any of these assumptions or projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and other market factors, we may experience volatility in our earnings that could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to find market participants that are willing to act as our hedging counterparties on acceptable terms or at all, which could have an adverse effect on the success of our hedging strategies.. We use estimates and assumptions in determining the value or amount of many of our assets and liabilities. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, our cash flow, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects could be adversely affected.. We use estimates and various assumptions in determining the fair value of many of our assets, including retained interests from securitizations, loans held-for-sale, and other investments that do not have an established market value or are not publicly traded. We also use estimates and assumptions in determining the residual values of leased vehicles. In addition, we use estimates and assumptions in determining our reserves for legal matters, insurance losses, and loss adjustment expenses (which represent the accumulation of estimates for both reported losses and those incurred, but not reported, including claims adjustment expenses relating to direct insurance and assumed reinsurance agreements). Refer to section titled Critical Accounting Estimates in the MD&A that follows. Our assumptions and estimates may be inaccurate for many reasons. For example, they often involve matters that are inherently difficult to predict and that are beyond our control (such as macroeconomic conditions and their impact on our dealers) and often involve complex interactions between a number of dependent and independent variables, factors, and other assumptions. Assumptions and estimates are also far more difficult during periods of market dislocation or illiquidity. As a result, our actual experience may differ substantially from these estimates and assumptions. A meaningful difference between our estimates and assumptions and our actual experience may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability, financial condition, and business prospects and may increase the volatility of our financial results. In addition, several different judgments associated with assumptions or estimates could be reasonable under the circumstances and yet result in significantly different results being reported.. Significant fluctuations in the valuation of investment securities or market prices could negatively affect our financial results.. Market prices for securities and other financial assets are subject to considerable fluctuation. Fluctuations may result, for example, from perceived changes in the value of the asset, the relative price of alternative investments, shifts in investor sentiment, geopolitical events, actual or expected changes in monetary or fiscal policies, and general market conditions. Due to these kinds of fluctuations, the amount that. 22. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. we realize in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the last reported value and could negatively affect our financial results. Additionally, negative fluctuations in the value of available-for-sale investment securities could result in unrealized losses recorded in equity.. Changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported revenues, expenses, profitability, and financial condition.. Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which are periodically revised or expanded. The application of GAAP is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by various parties, including accounting standard setters and those who interpret the standards, such as the FASB, the SEC, banking agencies, and our independent registered public accounting firm. Those changes are beyond our control but could adversely affect our revenues, expenses, profitability, or financial condition. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for several financial accounting standards recently issued by the FASB with effective dates between January 1, 2018, and January 1, 2020.. The financial system is highly interrelated, and the failure of even a single financial institution could adversely affect us.. The financial system is highly interrelated, including as a result of lending, trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We have exposure to and routinely execute transactions with a wide variety of financial institutions, including brokers, dealers, commercial banks, and investment banks. If any of these institutions were to become unstable, were to fail in meeting its obligations in full and on time, or were to enter bankruptcy, conservatorship, or receivership, the consequences could ripple throughout the financial system and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects. Because of interrelationships within the financial system, this could occur even if the institution itself were not systemically important or perceived to play a meaningful role in the stable functioning of the financial markets.. Adverse economic conditions or changes in laws in the states where we have loan or lease concentrations may negatively affect our business and financial results.. We are exposed to portfolio concentrations in some states, including California, Texas, and Florida. Factors adversely affecting the economies and applicable laws in these states could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Negative publicity outside of our control, or our failure to successfully manage issues arising from our conduct or in connection with the financial services industry generally, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business or financial results.. The performance and value of our business could be negatively impacted by any reputational harm that we may suffer. This harm could arise from negative publicity outside of our control or our failure to adequately address issues arising from our conduct or in connection with the financial services industry generally. Risks to our reputation could arise in any number of contexts - for example, stricter regulatory or supervisory environments, cyber incidents and other security breaches, inabilities to meet customer expectations, mergers and acquisitions, lending or banking practices, actual or perceived conflicts of interest, failures to prevent money laundering, inappropriate conduct by employees, and inadequate corporate governance.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or repurchase shares in the future may be limited.. Any future dividends on our common stock or share repurchases will be determined by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion and will depend on our business, financial condition, earnings, capital, liquidity, and other factors at the time. In addition, any plans to continue dividends or share repurchases in the future will be subject to the FRB's review of and non-objection to our capital plan, which is unpredictable. Refer to the section above titled Regulation and Supervision in Part I, Item 1 of this report. There is no assurance that our Board of Directors will approve, or the FRB will permit, future dividends or share repurchases.. It is possible that any indentures or other financing arrangements that we execute in the future could limit our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock, including our common stock. In the event that any of our indentures or other financing arrangements in the future restrict that ability, we may be unable to pay dividends unless and until we can refinance the amounts outstanding under those arrangements. In addition, under Delaware law, our Board of Directors may declare dividends on our capital stock only to the extent of our statutory surplus (which is defined as the amount equal to total assets minus total liabilities, in each case at fair market value, minus statutory capital) or, if no surplus exists, out of our net profits for the then-current or immediately preceding fiscal year. Further, even if we are permitted under our contractual obligations and Delaware law to pay dividends on our common stock, we may not have sufficient cash or regulatory approvals to do so.. 23. Table of Contents. Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K. The market price of our common stock could be adversely impacted by anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law that could delay or prevent a takeover attempt or change in control of Ally or by other banking, antitrust, or corporate laws that have or are perceived as having an anti-takeover effect.. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging, hindering, or preventing an acquisition that our Board of Directors does not find to be in the best interests of us and our stockholders. For example, our organizational documents include provisions:. • limiting the liability of our directors and providing indemnification to our directors and officers; and. • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings of stockholders by requiring any requesting stockholders to hold at least 25% of our common stock in the aggregate.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of Ally or changes in management.. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which generally prohibits a corporation from engaging in various business combination transactions with any interested stockholder (generally defined as a stockholder who owns 15% or more of a corporation's voting stock) for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, except under specified circumstances such as the receipt of prior board approval.. Banking and antitrust laws, including associated regulatory-approval requirements, also impose significant restrictions on the acquisition of direct or indirect control over any BHC like Ally or any insured depository institution like Ally Bank.. Any provision of our organizational documents or applicable law that deters, hinders, or prevents a non-negotiated takeover or change in control of Ally could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock."
