[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. All statements other than statements relating to historical matters should be considered forward-looking statements. When used in this report, the words \"believe,\" \"expect,\" \"plan,\" \"anticipate,\" \"estimate,\" \"predict,\" \"may,\" \"could,\" \"should,\" \"intend,\" \"will,\" \"target,\" \"goal\" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We explicitly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date hereof. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC.. Risks Related to Our Business. Risks Related to Being a Clinical Stage Company. Although we have several product candidates in late stage clinical development, including one in registration, there is limited information about our ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in the biopharmaceutical industry.. Although we have product candidates in late stage clinical development and one product under regulatory review for approval in the United States and the EU, we have limited experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the biopharmaceutical area. For example, to execute our business plan, we will need to successfully:. •  execute product development activities using unproven technologies related to both RNAi and to the delivery of siRNAs to the relevant tissues and cells;. •  build and maintain a strong intellectual property portfolio;. •  gain regulatory acceptance for the development and commercialization of our product candidates and market success for any products we commercialize;. •  develop and maintain successful strategic alliances; and. •  manage our spending as costs and expenses increase due to clinical trials, regulatory approvals and commercialization.. If we are unsuccessful in accomplishing these objectives, we may not be able to develop product candidates, commercialize products, raise capital, expand our business or continue our operations.. The approach we are taking to discover and develop novel RNAi therapeutics is unproven and may never lead to marketable products.. We have concentrated our efforts and therapeutic product research and development on RNAi technology and our future success depends on the successful development of this technology and products based on it. Neither we nor any other company has received regulatory approval to market therapeutics utilizing siRNAs, the class of molecule we are trying to develop into drugs. The scientific discoveries that form the basis for our efforts to discover and develop new drugs are relatively new. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is still limited. Skepticism as to the feasibility of developing RNAi therapeutics has been expressed in scientific literature. For example, there are potential challenges to achieving safe RNAi therapeutics based on the so-called off-target effects and activation of the interferon response. In addition, decisions by other companies with respect to their RNAi development efforts or their adoption of different or related technologies and the potential success of any such different or related technologies may increase skepticism in the marketplace regarding the potential for RNAi therapeutics.. 39. Relatively few product candidates based on these discoveries have ever been tested in humans. siRNAs may not naturally possess the inherent properties typically required of drugs, such as the ability to be stable in the body, or the ability to enter cells within relevant tissues in order to exert their effects. We have spent and expect to continue to spend large amounts of money developing siRNAs that possess the properties typically required of drugs, and to date, we have only taken one product candidate through Phase 3 development and filed for regulatory approval in the United States and the EU. In addition, these compounds may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. For example, in October 2016, we discontinued development of revusiran, an investigational RNAi therapeutic that was in development for the treatment of patients with cardiomyopathy due to hATTR amyloidosis, due to safety concerns. We conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the revusiran data and reported the results of this evaluation in August 2017, however, our investigation did not result in a conclusive explanation regarding the cause of the mortality imbalance observed in the ENDEAVOUR Phase 3 study. If we do not succeed in developing products that gain regulatory approval and succeed in the marketplace, we may not become profitable and the value of our common stock will decline.. Further, our focus solely on RNAi technology for developing drugs, as opposed to multiple, more proven technologies for drug development, increases the risks associated with the ownership of our common stock. If we are not successful in developing and commercializing one or more products using RNAi technology, we may be required to change the scope and direction of our product development activities. In that case, we may not be able to identify and implement successfully an alternative product development strategy.. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing. We have a history of losses and may never become and remain consistently profitable.. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. At December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $2.15 billion. To date, we have not received regulatory approval to market or sell any products nor generated any revenues from the sale of products. Further, we do not expect to generate any product revenues until at the earliest mid- to late-2018, assuming we receive marketing approval for patisiran. We expect to continue to incur annual net operating losses over the next several years and will require substantial resources over the next several years as we expand our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize RNAi therapeutics. Until we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates and successful in commercializing such products, we anticipate that a significant portion of any revenues we generate over the next several years will be from alliances with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, but cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain our existing alliances or secure and maintain new alliances, or meet the obligations or achieve any milestones that we may be required to meet or achieve to receive payments. We anticipate that revenues derived from such sources will not be sufficient to make us consistently profitable.. We believe that to become and remain consistently profitable, we must succeed in discovering, developing and commercializing novel drugs with significant market potential. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including pre-clinical testing and clinical trial stages of development, obtaining regulatory approval and reimbursement for these novel drugs and manufacturing, marketing and selling them. We may never succeed in these activities, and may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we cannot become and remain consistently profitable, the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, we may be unable to raise capital, expand our business, develop additional product candidates or continue our operations.. We will require substantial additional funds to complete our research, development and commercialization activities and if additional funds are not available, we may need to critically limit, significantly scale back or cease our operations.. We have used substantial funds to develop our RNAi technologies and will require substantial funds to conduct further research and development, including pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates, and to manufacture, market and sell any products that are approved for commercial sale. Because we cannot be certain of the length of time or activities associated with successful development of our product candidates, we are unable to estimate the actual funds we will require to develop and commercialize them.. Our future capital requirements and the period for which we expect our existing resources to support our operations may vary from what we expect. We have based our expectations on a number of factors, many of which are difficult to predict or are outside of our control, including:. •  our progress in demonstrating that siRNAs can be active as drugs and achieve desired clinical effects;. •  progress in our research and development programs, as well as what may be required by regulatory bodies to advance these programs;. 40. •  the timing, receipt and amount of milestone and other payments, if any, from present and future collaborators, if any;. •  our ability to maintain and establish additional collaborative arrangements and/or new business initiatives;. •  the resources, time and costs required to successfully initiate and complete our pre-clinical and clinical studies, obtain regulatory approvals, prepare for commercialization of our product candidates and obtain and maintain licenses to third-party intellectual property;. •  our ability to establish, maintain and operate our own manufacturing facilities in a timely and cost effective manner;. •  our ability to manufacture, or contract with third parties for the manufacture of, our product candidates for clinical testing and commercial sale;. •  the resources, time and cost required for the preparation, filing, prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of patent claims;. •  the costs associated with legal activities, including litigation, arising in the course of our business activities and our ability to prevail in any such legal disputes; and. •  the timing, receipt and amount of sales and royalties, if any, from our potential products.. If our estimates and predictions relating to these factors are incorrect, we may need to modify our operating plan.. Even if our estimates are correct, we will be required to seek additional funding in the future and intend to do so through either collaborative arrangements, public or private equity offerings or debt financings, or a combination of one or more of these funding sources. Additional funds may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.. In April 2016, our subsidiary, Alnylam U.S., Inc., entered into an aggregate of $150.0 million in term loan agreements related to the build out of our new drug substance manufacturing facility. In December 2017, we repaid in full $120.0 million outstanding under one such term loan agreement.  We are the guarantor under the remaining term loan agreement, which matures in April 2021.  Interest on the borrowings is calculated based on LIBOR plus 0.45 percent. During an event of default under the remaining agreement, the obligations under such agreement will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the interest rate then in effect plus two percent. The obligations under the term loan agreement are secured by cash collateral in an amount equal to, at any given time, at least 100 percent of the principal amount outstanding under such agreement at such time. The remaining agreement includes restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities and further limit our ability to change the nature of our business and, in the event of insolvency, the lenders would be paid before holders of equity securities received any distribution of corporate assets. If an event of default occurs, the interest rate would increase and the lender would be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the loan. Our ability to satisfy our obligations under this agreement and meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.. In addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funding to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. Moreover, our investor agreement with Sanofi Genzyme provides Sanofi Genzyme with the right, subject to certain exceptions, generally to maintain its ownership position in us until Sanofi Genzyme owns less than 7.5 percent of our outstanding common stock, subject to certain additional limited rights of Sanofi Genzyme to maintain its ownership percentage. In accordance with the investor agreement, to date, Sanofi Genzyme has exercised its right to purchase an additional 344,448 shares of our common stock in connection with our acquisition of Sirna in March 2014, an aggregate of 401,281 shares of our common stock based on its 2014 and 2015 compensation-related rights and an aggregate of 1,042,067 shares of our common stock in connection with our public offerings in January 2015 and May 2017. These purchases allowed Sanofi Genzyme to maintain its ownership level of our outstanding common stock. Sanofi Genzyme currently holds approximately 11 percent of our outstanding common stock. While the exercise of these rights by Sanofi Genzyme has provided us with an additional $147.7 million in cash to date, and while any exercise of these rights by Sanofi Genzyme in the future will provide us with further additional cash, these exercises have caused, and any future exercise of these rights by Sanofi Genzyme will also cause further, dilution to our stockholders. Sanofi Genzyme elected not to exercise its compensation-related rights for 2016 and 2017. Additionally, Sanofi Genzyme elected not to exercise its right to purchase additional shares in connection with our public offering in November 2017.. 41. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly delay or curtail one or more of our research or development programs, delay the build-out of our global commercial infrastructure or undergo future reductions in our workforce or other corporate restructuring activities, and our ability to achieve our strategy for 2020 may be delayed or diminished. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise pursue on our own.. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our consolidated financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals.. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We cannot assure you, however, that our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, will be correct.. The investment of our cash, cash equivalents and fixed income marketable securities is subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.. At December 31, 2017, we had $1.70 billion in cash, cash equivalents and fixed income marketable securities, excluding the $30.0 million of restricted investments related to our term loan agreement. We historically have invested these amounts in high - grade corporate notes, commercial paper, securities issued or sponsored by the U.S. government, certificates of deposit and money market funds meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital. Corporate notes may also include foreign bonds denominated in U.S. dollars. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. We may realize losses in the fair value of these investments or a complete loss of these investments, which would have a negative effect on our consolidated financial statements. In addition, should our investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. The market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. The effect of comprehensive U.S. tax reform legislation on us, our subsidiaries and our affiliates, whether adverse or favorable, is uncertain.. Our business is subject to numerous international, federal, state, and other governmental laws, rules, and regulations that may adversely affect our operating results, including, taxation and tax policy changes, tax rate changes, new tax laws, or revised tax law interpretations, which individually or in combination may cause our effective tax rate to increase. For example, on December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the TCJA. Among a number of significant changes to the current U.S. federal income tax rules, the TCJA reduces the marginal U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, introduces a capital investment deduction, limits the current deduction for net interest expense, limits the use of net operating losses to offset future taxable income, and makes extensive changes in the way in which income earned outside the United States is taxed in the United States. The TCJA is complex and far-reaching and we cannot predict with certainty the impact its enactment will have on us. Moreover, that effect, whether adverse or favorable, may not become evident for some period of time.. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties. We may not be able to execute our business strategy if we are unable to enter into alliances with other companies that can provide business and scientific capabilities and funds for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. If we are unsuccessful in forming or maintaining these alliances on terms favorable to us, our business may not succeed.. We currently are developing capabilities for sales or distribution and also have early capabilities for marketing, sales and market access, as well as limited capacity for drug development due to our growing pipeline of RNAi therapeutic opportunities. Accordingly, we have entered into alliances with other companies and collaborators that we believe can provide such capabilities in certain territories, and we intend to enter into additional such alliances in the future. Our collaboration strategy is to form alliances that create significant value for us and our collaborators in the advancement of RNAi therapeutics as a new class of innovative medicines. Specifically, with respect to our Genetic Medicine pipeline, we formed a broad strategic alliance with Sanofi Genzyme in 2014 pursuant to which we retain development and commercial rights for our current and future Genetic Medicine products in the United States, Canada and Western Europe, and Sanofi Genzyme has the right to develop and commercialize our current and future Genetic Medicine products principally in the rest of the world, subject to certain broader rights. In January 2018, we and Sanofi Genzyme amended our 2014 collaboration to provide that we would develop and commercialize patisiran globally and Sanofi Genzyme would develop and commercialize fitusiran globally.  With respect to our Cardio-Metabolic Disease pipeline, we intend to seek future. 42. strategic alliances for these programs, under which we may retain certain product development and commercialization rights, or we may structure as global alliances, as we did in our collaboration with MDCO to advance inclisiran. In October 2017, we announced an exclusive licensing agreement with Vir Biotechnology for the development and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics for infectious diseases, including chronic hepatitis B virus infection.. In such alliances, we expect our current, and may expect our future, collaborators to provide substantial capabilities in clinical development, regulatory affairs, and/or marketing, sales and distribution. Under certain of our alliances, we also may expect our collaborators to develop, market and/or sell certain of our product candidates. We may have limited or no control over the development, sales, marketing and distribution activities of these third parties. Our future revenues may depend heavily on the success of the efforts of these third parties. For example, we will rely entirely on (i) Sanofi Genzyme for the development and commercialization of fitusiran worldwide and potentially other of our Genetic Medicine programs in territories outside of the United States, Canada and Western Europe, and (ii) MDCO for all future development and commercialization of inclisiran worldwide. If Sanofi Genzyme and/or MDCO are not successful in their development and/or commercialization efforts, our future revenues from RNAi therapeutics for these indications may be adversely affected. Sanofi Genzyme also has the right to elect one global license for a future Genetic Medicine program that was not one of our defined Genetic Medicine programs as of the effective date of our 2014 collaboration. Sanofi Genzyme could elect its one global license for lumasiran, an investigational RNAi therapeutic targeting GO for the treatment of PH1. If Sanofi Genzyme elects to take a global license to lumasiran or another of our programs, we will no longer control the development and potential commercialization of such program and any revenues we receive will depend solely on the success of Sanofi Genzyme's efforts. In addition, Sanofi Genzyme may elect not to opt into one or more of our Genetic Medicine programs. For example, during 2016, Sanofi Genzyme elected not to take a regional license for our givosiran and cemdisiran programs. While we intend to advance these programs independently, retaining global development and commercial rights, our ability to advance these programs and successfully develop and commercialize these product candidates may be adversely affected as a result of Sanofi Genzyme's decision.. We may not be successful in entering into future alliances on terms favorable to us due to various factors, including our ability to successfully demonstrate proof-of-concept for our technology in humans, our ability to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our specific drug candidates, our ability to manufacture or have third parties manufacture RNAi therapeutics, the strength of our intellectual property and/or concerns around challenges to our intellectual property. For example, our decision in October 2016 to discontinue development of revusiran could make it more difficult for us to attract collaborators due to concerns around the safety and/or efficacy of our technology platform or product candidates. In addition, our decision in September 2017 to temporarily suspend dosing in all ongoing fitusiran studies pending further review of a fatal thrombotic SAE and agreement with regulatory authorities on a risk mitigation strategy could, notwithstanding the alignment reached with the FDA on a risk mitigation strategy in November 2017, contribute to further concerns about the safety of our therapeutic candidates. Even if we do succeed in securing any such alliances, we may not be able to maintain them if, for example, development or approval of a product candidate is delayed, challenges are raised as to the validity or scope of our intellectual property, we are unable to secure adequate reimbursement from payors or sales of an approved drug are lower than we expected.. Furthermore, any delay in entering into collaboration agreements would likely either delay the development and commercialization of certain of our product candidates and reduce their competitiveness even if they reach the market, or prevent the development of certain product candidates. Any such delay related to our collaborations could adversely affect our business.. For certain product candidates that we may develop, we have formed collaborations to fund all or part of the costs of drug development and commercialization, such as our collaborations with Sanofi Genzyme, MDCO and Vir Biotechnology. We may not, however, be able to enter into additional collaborations for certain other programs, and the terms of any collaboration agreement we do secure may not be favorable to us. If we are not successful in our efforts to enter into future collaboration arrangements with respect to one or more of our product candidates, we may not have sufficient funds to develop that or other product candidates internally, or to bring our product candidates to market. If we do not have sufficient funds to develop and bring our product candidates to market, we will not be able to generate revenues from these product candidates, and this will substantially harm our business.. If any collaborator terminates or fails to perform its obligations under agreements with us, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated.. Our dependence on collaborators for capabilities and funding means that our business could be adversely affected if any collaborator terminates its collaboration agreement with us or fails to perform its obligations under that agreement. Our current or future collaborations, if any, may not be scientifically or commercially successful. Disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or products developed with collaborators, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and commercialize any affected product candidate.. 43. Our current collaborations allow, and we expect that any future collaborations will allow, either party to terminate the collaboration for a material breach by the other party. In addition, our collaborators may have additional termination rights for convenience with respect to the collaboration or a particular program under the collaboration, under certain circumstances. For example, Sanofi Genzyme has the right to terminate our 2014 collaboration on a product-by-product basis in the event of certain safety concerns. Sanofi Genzyme also has the right to terminate its global license agreement for fitusiran at any time upon six months' prior written notice.  If Sanofi Genzyme were to terminate a particular program, we may have to expend significantly more on the development and commercialization of such product candidate. Moreover, our agreement with MDCO relating to the development and commercialization of inclisiran worldwide may be terminated by MDCO at any time upon four months' prior written notice. If we were to lose a commercialization collaborator, we would have to attract a new collaborator or develop expanded sales, distribution and marketing capabilities internally, which would require us to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources.. In addition, if we have a dispute with a collaborator over the ownership of technology or other matters, or if a collaborator terminates its collaboration with us, for breach or otherwise, or determines not to pursue the research, development and/or commercialization of RNAi therapeutics, it could delay our development of product candidates, result in the need for additional company resources to develop product candidates, require us to expend time and resources to develop expanded sales and marketing capabilities on a more expedited timeline, make it more difficult for us to attract new collaborators and could adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities. For example, in March 2011, Arbutus filed a civil complaint against us claiming, among other things, misappropriation of its confidential and proprietary information and trade secrets. As a result of the litigation, which was settled in November 2012, we were required to expend resources and management attention that would otherwise have been engaged in other activities. In addition, in August 2013, we initiated binding arbitration proceedings to resolve a disagreement with Arbutus regarding the achievement by Arbutus of a $5.0 million milestone payment under our cross-license agreement relating to the manufacture of ALN-VSP clinical trial material for use in China. The Arbutus arbitration hearing was held in May 2015. In March 2016, the arbitration panel ruled in our favor and as a result, no milestone payment is due to Arbutus at this time. Arbutus did not appeal this ruling.. Moreover, a collaborator, or in the event of a change in control of a collaborator or the assignment of a collaboration agreement to a third party, the successor entity or assignee, could determine that it is in its interests to:. •  pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, either on its own or jointly with others, that may be competitive with the products on which it is collaborating with us or which could affect its commitment to the collaboration with us;. •  pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of its development programs, which could affect the collaborator's commitment to us; or. •  if it has marketing rights, choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our product candidates, if any are approved for marketing, than it does for product candidates developed without us.. If any of these occur, the development and commercialization of one or more product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue such development and commercialization on our own.. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and if they fail to fulfill their obligations, our development plans may be adversely affected.. We rely on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations, or CROs, and other third-party service providers to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out our clinical trials. We have contracted, and we plan to continue to contract with, certain third parties to provide certain services, including site selection, enrollment, monitoring, auditing and data management services. Although we depend heavily on these parties, we control only certain aspects of their activity and therefore, we cannot be assured that these third parties will adequately perform all of their contractual obligations to us in compliance with regulatory and other legal requirements and our internal policies and procedures. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and our CROs are required to comply with GCP requirements, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for all of our product candidates in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce these GCP requirements through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCP requirements, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA, the EMA, the PMDA in Japan or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with GCP regulations.. 44. If our third-party service providers cannot adequately and timely fulfill their obligations to us, or if the quality and accuracy of our clinical trial data is compromised due to failure by such third party to adhere to our protocols or regulatory requirements or if such third parties otherwise fail to meet deadlines, our development plans and/or regulatory reviews for marketing approvals may be delayed or terminated, including, for example, review of our NDA and MAA filings for patisiran. As a result, our results of operations and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed.. We have limited manufacturing experience and resources and we must incur significant costs to develop this expertise and/or rely on third parties to manufacture our products.. We have limited manufacturing experience. In order to develop our product candidates, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our products, if approved, we will need to develop, contract for, or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. Historically, our internal manufacturing capabilities were limited to small-scale production of material for use in in vitro and in vivo experiments that is not required to be produced under cGMP standards. During 2012, we developed cGMP capabilities and processes for the manufacture of patisiran formulated bulk drug product for late stage clinical trial use and commercial supply. In addition, in April 2016, we completed our purchase of a parcel of land in Norton, Massachusetts, where we have commenced construction of a cGMP manufacturing facility for drug substance, including siRNAs and siRNA conjugates, for clinical and commercial use.. We may manufacture limited quantities of clinical trial materials ourselves, but otherwise we currently rely on third parties to manufacture the drug substance and, with the exception of patisiran, the finished product we will require for any clinical trials that we initiate and to support the commercial launch of our first several products. There are a limited number of manufacturers that supply synthetic siRNAs. We currently rely on a limited number of CMOs for our supply of synthetic siRNAs. For example, in July 2015, we amended our manufacturing agreement with Agilent, to provide for Agilent to supply, subject to any conflicting obligations under our third-party agreements, a specified percentage of the active pharmaceutical ingredients required for certain of our products in clinical development, as well as other products the parties may agree upon in the future. We will also rely on Agilent to supply the active pharmaceutical ingredients to support the commercial launch of patisiran.  There are risks inherent in pharmaceutical manufacturing that could affect the ability of our CMOs, including Agilent, to meet our delivery time requirements or provide adequate amounts of material to meet our needs. Included in these risks are potential synthesis and purification failures and/or contamination during the manufacturing process, as well as other issues with the CMO's facility and ability to comply with the applicable manufacturing requirements, which could result in unusable product and cause delays in our manufacturing timelines and ultimately delay our clinical trials and potentially put at risk commercial supply, as well as result in additional expense to us. To fulfill our siRNA requirements, we will likely need to secure alternative suppliers of synthetic siRNAs and such alternative suppliers are limited and may not be readily available, or we may be unable to enter into agreements with them on reasonable terms and in a timely manner. As noted above, in order to ensure long-term supply capabilities for our RNAi therapeutics, we are developing our own capabilities to manufacture drug substance, including siRNAs and siRNA conjugates, for clinical and commercial use.. In addition to the manufacture of the synthetic siRNAs, we may have additional manufacturing requirements related to the technology required to deliver the siRNA to the relevant cell or tissue type, such as LNPs or conjugates. In some cases, the delivery technology we utilize is highly specialized or proprietary, and for technical and/or legal reasons, we may have access to only one or a limited number of potential manufacturers for such delivery technology. In addition, the scale-up of our delivery technologies could be very difficult and/or take significant time. We also have very limited experience in such scale-up and manufacturing, requiring us to depend on a limited number of third parties, who might not be able to deliver in a timely manner, or at all. Failure by manufacturers to properly manufacture our delivery technology and/or formulate our siRNAs for delivery could result in unusable product. Furthermore, competition for supply from our manufacturers from other companies, a breach by such manufacturers of their contractual obligations or a dispute with such manufacturers would cause delays in our discovery and development efforts, as well as additional expense to us.. Given the limited number of suppliers for our delivery technology and drug substance, we have developed cGMP capabilities and processes for the manufacture of patisiran formulated bulk drug product for late stage clinical use and commercial supply. During 2015, we scaled our cGMP manufacturing capacity for patisiran and believe we should have adequate resources to supply our commercial needs. In addition, as noted above, we are developing our own capabilities to manufacture drug substance, including siRNAs and siRNA conjugates, for clinical and commercial use. In developing these manufacturing capabilities by building our own manufacturing facilities, we have incurred substantial expenditures, and expect to incur significant additional expenditures in the future. In addition, the construction and qualification of our drug substance facility is expected to take several years to complete and there are many risks inherent in the construction of a new facility that could result in delays and additional costs, including the need to obtain access to necessary equipment and third-party technology, if any. Also, we have had to, and will likely need to continue to, hire and train qualified employees to staff our facilities. We do not currently have a second source of supply for patisiran formulated bulk. 45. drug product. If we are unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of material or if we encounter problems with our facilities in the future, we may also need to secure alternative suppliers of patisiran formulated bulk drug product and drug substance, and such alternative suppliers may not be available, or we may be unable to enter into agreements with them on reasonable terms and in a timely manner.  Any delay or setback in the manufacture of patisiran could, assuming approval, delay the launch or ongoing commercial supply, which could significantly impact our revenues and operating results.. The manufacturing process for any products that we may develop is subject to the FDA and foreign regulatory authority approval process and we will need to meet, and will need to contract with CMOs who can meet, all applicable FDA and foreign regulatory authority requirements on an ongoing basis. In addition, if we receive the necessary regulatory approval for any product candidate, we also expect to rely on third parties, including potentially our commercial collaborators, to produce materials required for commercial supply. We may experience difficulty in obtaining adequate manufacturing capacity for our needs and the needs of our collaborators, who we have, in some instances, the obligation to supply. If we are unable to obtain or maintain CMOs for these product candidates, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our products.. To the extent that we have existing, or enter into future, manufacturing arrangements with third parties, we depend, and will depend in the future, on these third parties, including Agilent, to perform their obligations in a timely manner and consistent with contractual and regulatory requirements, including those related to quality control and quality assurance. The failure of Agilent or any other CMO to perform its obligations as expected, or, to the extent we manufacture all or a portion of our product candidates ourselves, our failure to execute on our manufacturing requirements, could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including:. •  we or our current or future collaborators may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of product candidates that are under development;. •  we or our current or future collaborators may be delayed in submitting regulatory applications, or receiving regulatory approvals, for our product candidates, including patisiran;. •  we may lose the cooperation of our collaborators;. •  our facilities and those of our CMOs, and our products could be the subject of inspections by regulatory authorities that could have a negative outcome and result in delays in supply;. •  we may be required to cease distribution or recall some or all batches of our products or take action to recover clinical trial material from clinical trial sites; and. •  ultimately, we may not be able to meet commercial demands for our products.. If any CMO with whom we contract, including Agilent, fails to perform its obligations, we may be forced to manufacture the materials ourselves, for which we may not have the capabilities or resources, or enter into an agreement with a different CMO, which we may not be able to do on reasonable terms, if at all. In either scenario, our clinical trials or commercial distribution could be delayed significantly as we establish alternative supply sources. In some cases, the technical skills required to manufacture our products or product candidates may be unique or proprietary to the original CMO and we may have difficulty, or there may be contractual restrictions prohibiting us from, transferring such skills to a back-up or alternate supplier, or we may be unable to transfer such skills at all. In addition, if we are required to change CMOs for any reason, we will be required to verify that the new CMO maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. We will also need to verify, such as through a manufacturing comparability study, that any new manufacturing process will produce our product according to the specifications previously submitted to or approved by the FDA or another regulatory authority. The delays associated with the verification of a new CMO could negatively affect our ability to develop product candidates in a timely manner or within budget. Furthermore, a CMO may possess technology related to the manufacture of our product candidate that such CMO owns independently. This would increase our reliance on such CMO or require us to obtain a license from such CMO in order to have another CMO manufacture our products or product candidates.. We have no sales or distribution experience and only early capabilities for marketing, sales and market access, and expect to invest significant financial and management resources to establish these capabilities and to establish a global commercial infrastructure.. We have no sales or distribution experience and only early capabilities for marketing, sales and market access. We currently expect to rely heavily on third parties to launch and market certain of our product candidates in certain geographies, if approved. However, we intend to commercialize several of our late-stage products on our own globally, including patisiran, as a result of the January 2018 amendment to our Sanofi Genzyme collaboration, and givosiran. Accordingly, we will need to develop internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities as part of our core product strategy initially in the United States and the EU, then Canada and Switzerland, Central and Eastern Europe, Japan and in other major markets in the rest of the world, which will require significant. 46. financial and management resources. For those products for which we will perform sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, including patisiran and givosiran, if approved, and for future products we successfully develop where we may retain certain product development and commercialization rights, we could face a number of additional risks, including:. •  we may not be able to attract and build a significant marketing or sales force;. •  we may not be able to establish our global capabilities and infrastructure in a timely manner;. •  the cost of establishing a marketing or sales force may not be justifiable in light of the revenues generated by any particular product and/or in any specific geographic region; and. •  our direct sales and marketing efforts may not be successful.. If we are unable to develop our own global sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for patisiran and other products, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our products without reliance on third parties.. Credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business from time to time.. Due to tightening of global credit, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business, including significant portions of our manufacturing needs, development of product candidates and conduct of clinical trials. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business could be adversely affected.. Our ability to secure additional financing in addition to our term loan agreement and to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. In light of periodic uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, there can be no assurance that sufficient financing will be available on desirable or even any terms to fund investments, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, debt refinancing or extraordinary actions.. Risks Related to Managing Our Operations. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified key management and scientists, development, medical and commercial staff, consultants and advisors, our ability to implement our business plan may be adversely affected.. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and our scientific, clinical and medical staff. The loss of the service of any of the members of our senior management, including Dr. John Maraganore, our Chief Executive Officer, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and commercialization, and other business objectives. Our employment arrangements with our key personnel are terminable without notice. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees.. We have grown our workforce significantly over the past several years and anticipate continuing to add a significant number of additional employees as we focus on achieving our Alnylam 2020 strategy. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and other research institutions, many of which have substantially greater resources with which to reward qualified individuals than we do. In addition, due to the risks associated with developing a new class of medicine, we may experience disappointing results in a clinical program and our stock price may decline as a result, as was the case following our decision in October 2016 to discontinue our revusiran program, and, to less of an extent, following our temporary suspension of dosing in our fitusiran program in September 2017. As a result, we may face additional challenges in attracting and retaining employees. Accordingly, we may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals in order to support our growing research, development and commercialization efforts and initiatives, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our future business plan.. We may have difficulty expanding our operations successfully as we evolve from a U.S.-based company primarily involved in discovery, pre-clinical testing and clinical development into a global company that develops and commercializes multiple drugs.. As we increase the number of product candidates we are developing we will also need to expand our operations in the United States and continue to build operations in the EU and other geographies, including Japan. Based on the positive data reported from our APOLLO Phase 3 study of patisiran, we filed an NDA and an MAA for patisiran in December 2017. Assuming regulatory approvals, we are preparing to commercialize patisiran in 2018 and now have global development and commercialization rights for patisiran as a result of the January 2018 amendment to our Sanofi Genzyme collaboration. We also plan to file for regulatory approval in Japan in mid-2018 and in one or more additional countries by the end of the year.. 47. As noted above, we grew our workforce significantly during 2016 and 2017, and anticipate continuing to hire additional employees, including employees in the EU, Japan and other territories, as we focus on the potential commercial launch of patisiran and achieving our Alnylam 2020 strategy. This expected growth is placing a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure, and we will need to develop additional and/or new infrastructure and capabilities to support our growth and obtain additional space to conduct our operations in the United States, the EU, Japan and other geographies. If we are unable to develop such additional infrastructure or obtain sufficient space to accommodate our growth in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. As product candidates we develop enter and advance through clinical trials, we will need to expand our global development, regulatory, manufacturing, quality, compliance, and marketing and sales capabilities, or contract with other organizations to provide these capabilities for us. In addition, as our operations expand due to our development progress, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborators, suppliers and other organizations. Our ability to manage our operations and future growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and systems, reporting systems and infrastructure, and policies and procedures. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls.. The increasing use of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges.. Social media is increasingly being used to communicate about our clinical development programs and the diseases our investigational RNAi therapeutics are being developed to treat, and we intend to utilize appropriate social media in connection with our commercialization efforts following approval of our drug candidates. Social media practices in the biopharmaceutical industry continue to evolve and regulations relating to such use are not always clear. This evolution creates uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to our business. For example, patients may use social media channels to comment on their experience in an ongoing blinded clinical study or to report an alleged AE. When such disclosures occur, there is a risk that we fail to monitor and comply with applicable AE reporting obligations or we may not be able to defend our business or the public's legitimate interests in the face of the political and market pressures generated by social media due to restrictions on what we may say about our investigational products. There is also a risk of inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information or negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website. If any of these events were to occur or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could incur liability, face regulatory actions or incur other harm to our business.. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication and electrical failures. Such events could cause interruption of our operations. For example, the loss of pre-clinical trial data or data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory filings and development efforts, as well as delays in the commercialization of our products, and significantly increase our costs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the development and potential commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the EU may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. In June 2016, the United Kingdom, or UK, held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the EU, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" This referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the UK and the EU, and this uncertainty may persist for years. A withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the UK and the EU, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in Europe. The UK's vote to exit the EU could also result in similar referendums or votes in other European countries in which we do business. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the UK from the EU would have and how such withdrawal would affect us.. For example, Brexit could result in the UK or the EU significantly altering its regulations affecting the clearance or approval of our product candidates that are developed in the UK. Any new regulations could add time and expense to the conduct of our business, as well as the process by which our products receive regulatory approval in the UK, the EU and elsewhere. In addition, the announcement of Brexit and the withdrawal of the UK from the EU have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. 48. Risks Related to Our Industry. Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates. Any product candidates we develop may fail in development or be delayed to a point where they do not become commercially viable.. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial distribution of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive nonclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. Nonclinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome, and the historical failure rate for product candidates is high. In October 2016, we discontinued development of one of our product candidates, which included a Phase 3 clinical trial. We currently have multiple other programs in clinical development, including several internal programs and two partnered programs currently in Phase 3 development, as well as several earlier stage clinical programs. In November 2017, we reported positive complete results from our APOLLO Phase 3 clinical trial for our lead product candidate, patisiran, and in December 2017, we filed an NDA and an MAA for patisiran. However, we may not be able to further advance these or any other product candidate through clinical trials and regulatory approval.. If we enter into clinical trials, the results from nonclinical testing or early clinical trials of a product candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in subsequent subjects or in subsequent human clinical trials of that product candidate or any other product candidate. For example, in June 2017, we announced updated results from our Phase 1 clinical trial of givosiran. Although the clinical data from this trial are encouraging, the data are preliminary in nature, based on a limited number of patients with AIP. These data, or other positive data, may not continue for patients with AIP, and may not be repeated or observed in our ENVISION Phase 3 study. There can be no assurance that our studies with givosiran will ultimately be successful or support further clinical advancement or regulatory approval of this product candidate. There is a high failure rate for drugs proceeding through clinical studies. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in clinical development even after achieving promising results in earlier studies, and any such setbacks in our clinical development could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Moreover, patisiran, givosiran, fitusiran, inclisiran and our other product candidates each employ novel delivery technologies that have yet to be extensively evaluated in human clinical trials and proven safe and effective.. In addition, we, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities, or an IRB or similar foreign review board or committee, may delay initiation of or suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time for various reasons, including if we or they believe the healthy volunteer subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Among other reasons, adverse side effects of a product candidate or related product on healthy volunteer subjects or patients in a clinical trial could result in our decision, or a decision by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, to suspend or terminate the trial, or, in the case of regulatory agencies, a refusal to approve a particular product candidate for any or all indications of use. For example, in October 2016, we announced our decision to discontinue development of revusiran, an investigational RNAi therapeutic that was being developed for the treatment of patients with cardiomyopathy due to hATTR amyloidosis. Our decision followed the recommendation of the revusiran ENDEAVOUR Phase 3 study Data Monitoring Committee, or DMC, to suspend dosing and the observation of an imbalance in mortality in revusiran-treated patients as compared to those on placebo. We conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the revusiran data and reported the results of our evaluation on August 9, 2017. Following our evaluation, we continue to believe that the decision to discontinue development of revusiran does not affect patisiran, which is under regulatory review for the treatment of hATTR amyloidosis, or any of our other investigational RNAi therapeutic programs in development. In September 2017, we announced that we had temporarily suspended dosing in all ongoing fitusiran studies pending further review of a fatal thrombotic SAE and agreement with regulatory authorities on a risk mitigation strategy. We have reached alignment with study investigators and the FDA on safety measures and a risk mitigation strategy to enable resumption of dosing in clinical studies with fitusiran, including our Phase 2 OLE study and the ATLAS Phase 3 program, including protocol-specified guidelines and additional investigator and patient education concerning reduced doses of replacement factor or bypassing agent to treat any breakthrough bleeds in fitusiran studies. Based on this, amended protocols were submitted to the regulatory authorities and in December 2017, the FDA lifted the clinical hold.  Dosing has resumed in the Phase 2 OLE study and we expect to begin dosing patients in the ATLAS Phase 3 program in early 2018.. Clinical trials of a new product candidate require the enrollment of a sufficient number of patients, including patients who are suffering from the disease the product candidate is intended to treat and who meet other eligibility criteria. Rates of patient enrollment are affected by many factors, including the size of the patient population, the age and condition of the patients, the stage and severity of disease, the availability of clinical trials for other investigational drugs for the same disease or condition, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. For example, we or our partners may experience difficulty enrolling our clinical trials, including, but not limited to, our clinical trials for fitusiran, due to the availability of existing approved treatments, as well as other investigational treatments in development. Moreover, given the recent temporary suspension of dosing in our fitusiran studies due to a fatal thrombotic SAE, people with hemophilia may be more reluctant to enroll in the ATLAS Phase 3 program of fitusiran. Delays or difficulties in patient. 49. enrollment or difficulties retaining trial participants, including as a result of the availability of existing or other investigational treatments or safety concerns, can result in increased costs, longer development times or termination of a clinical trial.. Although our investigational RNAi therapeutics have been generally well tolerated in our clinical trials to date, new safety findings may emerge. For example, as noted above, in September 2017, we announced that we had temporarily suspended dosing in all ongoing fitusiran studies pending further review of a fatal thrombotic SAE that occurred in a patient with hemophilia A without inhibitors who was receiving fitusiran in our Phase 2 OLE study. In addition, in October 2016, we made the decision to discontinue our revusiran program. Following reports in the revusiran Phase 2 OLE study of new onset or worsening peripheral neuropathy, the revusiran ENDEAVOUR Phase 3 study DMC assembled in early October 2016 at our request to review these reports and ENDEAVOUR safety data on an unblinded basis. The DMC did not find conclusive evidence for a drug-related neuropathy signal in the ENDEAVOUR trial, but informed us that the benefit-risk profile for revusiran no longer supported continued dosing. We subsequently reviewed unblinded ENDEAVOUR data which revealed an imbalance of mortality in the revusiran arm as compared to placebo. Further, a review by us in 2017 of the ENDEAVOUR results subsequent to the completion of follow-up of the patients post-dosing discontinuation revealed an imbalance in new onset or worsening peripheral neuropathy in the revusiran arm as compared to placebo. We had previously reported, in July 2016, preliminary data from our revusiran Phase 2 OLE study for 12 patients who had reached the 12-month endpoint as of the data transfer date of May 26, 2016. SAEs were observed in 14 patients, one of which, a case of lactic acidosis, was deemed possibly related to the study drug and the patient discontinued treatment. There were a total of seven deaths reported at that time in the revusiran OLE study, all of which were unrelated to the study drug. The majority of the AEs were mild or moderate in severity; ISRs were reported in 12 patients. In August 2015, we reported that three patients had discontinued from the revusiran Phase 2 OLE study due to recurrent localized reactions at the injection site or a diffuse rash; no further discontinuations due to ISRs had occurred as of May 26, 2016.. In our patisiran APOLLO Phase 3 study in patients with polyneuropathy due to hATTR amyloidosis, the most commonly reported AEs that occurred more frequently in patisiran patients were peripheral edema and IRRs. These were generally mild to moderate in severity and only one patient discontinued from the APOLLO study due to an IRR. Compared to placebo, patisiran treatment was associated with fewer treatment discontinuations and fewer study withdrawals due to AEs. The incidence of SAEs across the patisiran and placebo groups was similar and the SAEs reported in two or more patients in the patisiran group included: diarrhea, cardiac failure, congestive cardiac failure, orthostatic hypotension, pneumonia and atrioventricular block complete. These were all considered unrelated to patisiran, except for one SAE of diarrhea. SAEs occurred with similar frequency in the placebo group, except for diarrhea. Deaths were recorded with a similar incidence across the patisiran and placebo treatment groups and no deaths were considered related to the study drug.. In addition, in our ALN-VSP clinical trial, one patient with advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine cancer with extensive involvement of the liver developed hepatic failure five days following the second dose of ALN-VSP and subsequently died; this was deemed possibly related to the study drug. As demonstrated by the discontinuation of our revusiran program in October 2016 and the temporary suspension of dosing in September 2017 in our fitusiran studies, the occurrence of SAEs and/or AEs can result in the suspension or termination of clinical trials of a product candidate by us or the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority, or refusal to approve a particular product candidate for any or all indications of use.. Clinical trials also require the review, oversight and approval of IRBs or, outside of the United States, an independent ethics committee, which continually review clinical investigations and protect the rights and welfare of human subjects. Inability to obtain or delay in obtaining IRB or ethics committee approval can prevent or delay the initiation and completion of clinical trials, and the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may decide not to consider any data or information derived from a clinical investigation not subject to initial and continuing IRB or ethics committee review and approval, as the case may be, in support of a marketing application.. Our product candidates that we develop may encounter problems during clinical trials that will cause us, an IRB, ethics committee or regulatory authorities to delay, suspend or terminate these trials, or that will delay or confound the analysis of data from these trials. If we experience any such problems, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of the product candidate that is affected, or development of any of our other product candidates. We may also lose, or be unable to enter into, collaborative arrangements for the affected product candidate and for other product candidates we are developing.. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, nonclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent regulatory approval or our ability to commercialize our product candidates, including:. •  our nonclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional nonclinical testing or clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising;. 50. •  delays in filing IND applications or comparable foreign applications or delays or failure in obtaining the necessary approvals from regulators or IRBs/ethics committees in order to commence a clinical trial at a prospective trial site, or their suspension or termination of a clinical trial once commenced;. •  conditions imposed on us by an IRB or ethics committee, or the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials;. •  problems in engaging IRBs or ethics committees to oversee clinical trials or problems in obtaining or maintaining IRB or ethics committee approval of trials;. •  delays in enrolling patients and volunteers into clinical trials, and variability in the number and types of patients and volunteers available for clinical trials;. •  high drop-out rates for patients and volunteers in clinical trials;. •  negative or inconclusive results from our clinical trials or the clinical trials of others for product candidates similar to ours;. •  inadequate supply or quality of product candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials;. •  greater than anticipated clinical trial costs;. •  serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by individuals using drugs similar to our product candidates;. •  poor or disappointing effectiveness of our product candidates during clinical trials;. •  unfavorable FDA or other regulatory agency inspection and review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or nonclinical investigation;. •  failure of our third-party contractors or investigators to comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise meet their contractual obligations in a timely manner, or at all;. •  governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines, including the imposition of additional regulatory oversight around clinical testing generally or with respect to our technology in particular; or. •  varying interpretations of data by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies.. Even if we successfully complete clinical trials of our product candidates, as is the case with patisiran, any given product candidate may not prove to be a safe and effective treatment for the disease for which it was being tested.. We may be unable to obtain United States or foreign regulatory approval and, as a result, unable to commercialize our product candidates.. Our product candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to, among other things, research, testing, development, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, approval, recordkeeping, reporting, labeling, storage, pricing, marketing and distribution of drugs. Rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required to be successfully completed in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions before a new drug can be marketed. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. It is possible that none of the product candidates we may develop will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to begin selling them.. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. The time required to obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate. The standards that the FDA and its foreign counterparts use when regulating us are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Any analysis we perform of data from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We may also encounter unexpected delays or increased costs due to new government regulations, for example, from future legislation or administrative action, or from changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether FDA or foreign regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be.. 51. Because the drugs we are developing may represent a new class of drug, the FDA and its foreign counterparts have not yet established any definitive policies, practices or guidelines in relation to these drugs. The lack of policies, practices or guidelines may hinder or slow review by the FDA of any regulatory filings that we may submit. Moreover, the FDA may respond to these submissions by defining requirements we may not have anticipated. Such responses could lead to significant delays in the clinical development of our product candidates. In addition, because there may be approved treatments for some of the diseases for which we may seek approval, in order to receive regulatory approval, we may need to demonstrate through clinical trials that the product candidates we develop to treat these diseases, if any, are not only safe and effective, but safer or more effective than existing products. Furthermore, in recent years, there has been increased public and political pressure on the FDA with respect to the approval process for new drugs, and the FDA's standards, especially regarding drug safety, appear to have become more stringent.. In November 2017, we reported positive complete results from our APOLLO Phase 3 clinical trial and generally encouraging safety data, and in December 2017, we completed the submission of our first NDA and submitted our first MAA for patisiran. In January 2018, we announced that the EMA has accepted the MAA and initiated its review. Patisiran was previously granted an accelerated assessment by the EMA.  In early February 2018, we announced that the FDA has accepted our NDA and granted our request for priority review, with an action date of August 11, 2018.  We also plan to file for regulatory approval in Japan in mid-2018 and in one or more additional countries by the end of the year. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from patisiran or any product candidate for which we may seek approval in the future. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market patisiran or any other product may be subject to limitations on the approved uses for which we may market the product or the labeling or other restrictions. In addition, the FDA has the authority to require a REMS plan as part of an NDA, or after approval, which may impose further requirements or restrictions on the distribution or use of an approved drug, such as limiting prescribing to certain physicians or medical centers that have undergone specialized training, limiting treatment to patients who meet certain safe-use criteria and requiring treated patients to enroll in a registry. In the EU, we could be required to adopt a similar plan, known as a risk management plan, and our products could be subject to specific risk minimization measures, such as restrictions on prescription and supply, the conduct of post-marketing safety or efficacy studies, or the distribution of patient and/or prescriber educational materials. In either instance, these limitations and restrictions may limit the size of the market for the product and affect reimbursement by third-party payors.. We are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing, among other things, the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorisation, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process varies among countries and includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States and vice versa.. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory oversight. If we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and foreign requirements, our approvals could be limited or withdrawn, we could be subject to other penalties, and our business would be seriously harmed.. Following any initial regulatory approval of patisiran and any other drugs we may develop, we will also be subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products are made commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of patisiran or other drug products required as a condition of approval or agreed to by us. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for patisiran or our other product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the approved uses for which the product may be marketed. Other ongoing regulatory requirements include, among other things, submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing, as well as continued compliance with cGMP requirements and GCP requirements for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. In addition, we are conducting, and intend to continue to conduct, clinical trials for our product candidates, and we intend to seek approval to market our product candidates, in jurisdictions outside of the United States, and therefore will be subject to, and must comply with, regulatory requirements in those jurisdictions.. The FDA has significant post-market authority, including, for example, the authority to require labeling changes based on new safety information and to require post-market studies or clinical trials to evaluate serious safety risks related to the use of a drug and to require withdrawal of the product from the market. The FDA also has the authority to require a REMS plan after approval, which may impose further requirements or restrictions on the distribution or use of an approved drug.. The CMO and manufacturing facilities we use to make our product candidates, including our Cambridge facility, our future Norton facility, and Agilent and other CMOs, will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. To date, our Cambridge manufacturing facility has not been subject to an inspection by any regulatory authority. We expect Agilent will undergo regulatory inspection by the FDA and potentially other regulatory authorities in connection with the review of our NDA and MAA, as well as any subsequent applications for regulatory approval in other territories. The discovery of any new or previously unknown problems with us or our CMOs, or our or their manufacturing processes or facilities, may result in restrictions on. 52. the drug or CMO or facility, including delay in approval or, in the future, withdrawal of the drug from the market. We have developed cGMP capabilities and processes for the manufacture of patisiran formulated bulk drug product for Phase 3 clinical and commercial use. In addition, in April 2016, we completed our purchase of a parcel of land in Norton, Massachusetts, where we have commenced construction of a cGMP manufacturing facility for drug substance, including siRNAs and siRNA conjugates, for clinical and commercial use. We may not have the ability or capacity to manufacture material at a broader commercial scale in the future. We may manufacture clinical trial materials or we may contract a third party to manufacture these materials for us. Reliance on CMOs entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including reliance on the CMO for regulatory compliance. Our product promotion and advertising will also be subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review.. If we or our collaborators, CMOs or service providers fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements in the United States or foreign jurisdictions in which we may seek to market our products, we or they may be subject to, among other things, fines, warning letters, holds on clinical trials, refusal by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, refusal to permit the import or export of products, operating restrictions, injunction, civil penalties and criminal prosecution.. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, the market may not be receptive to our product candidates upon their commercial introduction, which will prevent us from becoming profitable.. The product candidates that we are developing are based upon new technologies or therapeutic approaches. Key participants in pharmaceutical marketplaces, such as physicians, third-party payors and consumers, may not accept a product intended to improve therapeutic results based on RNAi technology. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to convince the medical community and third-party payors to accept and use our product, or to provide favorable reimbursement.. Other factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of our product candidates include:. •  the timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approvals and the countries in which approvals are obtained;. •  the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, as demonstrated in clinical trials and as compared with alternative treatments, if any;. •  relative convenience and ease of administration of our product candidates;. •  the willingness of patients to accept potentially new routes of administration or new or different therapeutic approaches and mechanisms of action;. •  the success of our physician education programs;. •  the availability of adequate government and third-party payor reimbursement;. •  the pricing of our products, particularly as compared to alternative treatments, and the market perception of such prices and any price increase that we may implement in the future; and. •  availability of alternative effective treatments for the diseases that product candidates we develop are intended to treat and the relative risks, benefits and costs of those treatments.. For example, patisiran utilizes an intravenous mode of administration that physicians and/or patients may not readily adopt or which may not compete with other potentially available options. In addition, fitusiran represents a new approach to treating hemophilia which may not be readily accepted by patients and their caregivers.. In addition, our estimates regarding the potential market size for patisiran or our other product candidates may be materially different from what we currently expect at the time we commence commercialization, which could result in significant changes in our business plan and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. If we or our collaborators, CMOs or service providers fail to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to develop, market and sell our products and may harm our reputation.. As a manufacturer of pharmaceuticals, we are subject to federal, state, and comparable foreign healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights. These laws and regulations include:. •  The U.S. federal Anti-Kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual for a healthcare item or service, or the purchasing or ordering of an item or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid.. 53. •  The U.S. federal false claims laws, including the False Claims Act, or FCA, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented, claims for payment by government-funded programs such as Medicare or Medicaid that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to us by virtue of statements and representations made to customers or third parties, and, making, using or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. Manufacturers can be held liable under the FCA even when they do not submit claims directly to government payors if they are deemed to \"cause\" the submission of false or fraudulent claims. The FCA also permits a private individual acting as a \"whistleblower\" to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging violations of the FCA and to share in any monetary recovery; and which may apply to us by virtue of statements and representations made to customers or third parties.. •  The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any healthcare benefit program, regardless of the payor (e.g., public or private) and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by any trick or device a material fact or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, healthcare benefits, items or services relating to healthcare matters.  Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity can be found guilty of violating HIPAA without actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it.. •  HIPAA as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which impose requirements relating to the privacy, security, and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and require notification to affected individuals and regulatory authorities of certain breaches of security of individually identifiable health information.. •  The U.S. federal Open Payments requirements were implemented by the CMS, pursuant to the PPACA. Under the Open Payments Program, manufacturers of medical devices, medical supplies, biological products and drugs covered by Medicare, Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Programs must report all transfers of value, including consulting fees, travel reimbursements, research grants, and other payments or gifts with values over $10 made to physicians and teaching hospitals.. •  Federal consumer protection and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities and activities that potentially harm consumers.. •  State and foreign laws comparable to each of the above federal laws, including in the EU laws prohibiting giving healthcare professionals any gift or benefit in kind as an inducement to prescribe our products, national transparency laws requiring the public disclosure of payments made to healthcare professionals and institutions, and data privacy laws, in addition to anti-kickback and false claims laws applicable to commercial insurers and other non-federal payors, requirements for mandatory corporate regulatory compliance programs, and laws relating to government reimbursement programs, patient data privacy and security.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any such requirements, we may be subject to penalties, including civil or criminal penalties, criminal prosecution, monetary damages, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, loss of eligibility to obtain approvals from the FDA, or exclusion from participation in government contracting, healthcare reimbursement or other government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, or the imposition of a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, any of which could adversely affect our financial results. We are establishing our global compliance infrastructure as we prepare for the potential launch of patisiran in 2018 in the United States and the EU. Although effective compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, these risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for an alleged or suspected violation could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and could divert our management's attention from the operation of our business, even if our defense is successful. In addition, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations may be costly to us in terms of money, time and resources.. If we or our collaborators, CMOs or service providers fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to develop, market and sell patisiran or our other products successfully and could harm our reputation and lead to reduced acceptance of our products by the market. These enforcement actions include, among others:. •  adverse regulatory inspection findings;. •  warning letters;. •  voluntary or mandatory product recalls or public notification or medical product safety alerts to healthcare professionals;. 54. •  restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing our products;. •  restrictions on, or prohibitions against, importation or exportation of our products;. •  suspension of review or refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications;. •  exclusion from participation in government-funded healthcare programs;. •  exclusion from eligibility for the award of government contracts for our products;. •  suspension or withdrawal of product approvals;. •  product seizures;. •  injunctions; and. •  civil and criminal penalties, up to and including criminal prosecution resulting in fines, exclusion from healthcare reimbursement programs and imprisonment.. Moreover, federal, state or foreign laws or regulations are subject to change, and while we, our collaborators, CMOs and/or service providers currently may be compliant, that could change due to changes in interpretation, prevailing industry standards or the legal structure.. Any drugs we develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, thereby harming our business.. The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing and reimbursement for new drugs vary widely from country to country. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. We are actively monitoring these regulations as we await potential regulatory approval for patisiran in the U.S. and the EU and several of our other programs move into late stages of development, however, a number of our programs are currently in the earlier stages of development and we will not be able to assess the impact of price regulations for such programs for a number of years. We might obtain regulatory approval for a product, including patisiran, in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product and negatively impact the revenues we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that country and potentially in other countries due to reference pricing.. Our ability to commercialize patisiran or any other products successfully also will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Even if we succeed in bringing patisiran or other products to the market, patisiran and such other products may not be considered cost-effective, and the amount reimbursed for any products may be insufficient to allow us to sell patisiran or our other products on a competitive basis. Increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients or healthcare providers, such as government and private insurance plans, are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are seeking to reduce the prices charged or the amounts reimbursed for drug products. If the price we are able to charge for patisiran or any other products we develop, or the reimbursement provided for such products, is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, or if reimbursement is denied, our return on investment could be adversely affected. In addition, we have stated publicly that we intend to grow through continued scientific innovation rather than arbitrary price increases. Specifically, we have stated that we will not raise the price of any product for which we receive marketing approval over the rate of inflation, as determined by the consumer price index for urban consumers (approximately 2.2 percent currently). Our patient access philosophy could also negatively impact the revenues we are able to generate from the sale of one or more of our products in the future.. We currently expect that some of the drugs we develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician or other healthcare professional on an outpatient basis, including patisiran. Under currently applicable U.S. law, certain drugs that are not usually self-administered (including injectable drugs) may be eligible for coverage under the Medicare Part B program if:. •  they are incident to a physician's services;. •   they are reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standards of medical practice; and. •  they have been approved by the FDA and meet other requirements of the statute.. 55. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage for newly-approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any drug will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution or that covers a particular provider's cost of acquiring the drug. Interim payments for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost drugs that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other services and may reflect budgetary constraints or imperfections in Medicare data. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for patisiran or other new drugs that we develop and for which we obtain regulatory approval could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products, and our overall financial condition.. We believe that the efforts of governments and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare and legislative and regulatory proposals to broaden the availability of healthcare will continue to affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. Specifically, there have been several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed federal and state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, reduce the cost of prescription drugs under Medicare, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs.. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers.. A number of other legislative and regulatory changes in the healthcare system in the United States and other major healthcare markets have been proposed in recent years, and such efforts have expanded substantially in recent years. These developments have included prescription drug benefit legislation that was enacted in 2003 and took effect in January 2006, healthcare reform legislation enacted by certain states, and major healthcare reform legislation that was passed by Congress and enacted into law in the United States in 2010. These developments could, directly or indirectly, affect our ability to sell our products, if approved, at a favorable price.. In particular, in March 2010, the PPACA was signed into law. This legislation changed the system of healthcare insurance and benefits intended to broaden coverage and control costs. The law also contains provisions that affect companies in the pharmaceutical industry and other healthcare related industries by imposing additional costs and changes to business practices. Provisions affecting pharmaceutical companies include the following:. •  Mandatory rebates for drugs sold into the Medicaid program were increased, and the rebate requirement was extended to drugs used in risk-based Medicaid managed care plans.. •  The 340B Drug Pricing Program under the Public Health Service Act was extended to require mandatory discounts for drug products sold to certain critical access hospitals, cancer hospitals and other covered entities.. •  Pharmaceutical companies are required to offer discounts on brand-name drugs to patients who fall within the Medicare Part D coverage gap, commonly referred to as the \"donut hole.\". •  Pharmaceutical companies are required to pay an annual non-tax deductible fee to the federal government based on each company's market share of prior year total sales of branded products to certain federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Veterans Affairs and Department of Defense. Since we expect our branded pharmaceutical sales to constitute a small portion of the total federal healthcare program pharmaceutical market, we do not expect this annual assessment to have a material impact on our financial condition.. •  The law provides that approval of an application for a follow-on biologic product may not become effective until 12 years after the date on which the reference innovator biologic product was first licensed by the FDA, with a possible six-month extension for pediatric products. After this exclusivity ends, it will be easier for generic manufacturers to enter the market, which is likely to reduce the pricing for such products and could affect our profitability.. •  The law creates a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected.. •  The law expands eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to certain individuals with income at or below 133 percent of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing a manufacturer's Medicaid rebate liability.. 56. •  The law expands the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service Act pharmaceutical pricing program.. •  The law establishes new requirements to report financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals and to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians.. •  The law establishes a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.. The full effects of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation cannot be known until the law is fully implemented through regulations or guidance issued by the CMS and other federal and state healthcare agencies. The financial impact of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation over the next few years will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited, to the policies reflected in implementing regulations and guidance, and changes in sales volumes for products affected by the new system of rebates, discounts and fees. This legislation may also have a positive impact on our future net sales, if any, by increasing the aggregate number of persons with healthcare coverage in the United States.. As a result of the 2016 election in the United States, there is great political uncertainty concerning the fate of the PPACA and other healthcare laws. Members of the United States Congress and the Trump Administration have expressed an intent to pass legislation or adopt executive orders to fundamentally change or repeal parts of the PPACA. While Congress has not passed repeal legislation to date, the TCJA includes a provision repealing the individual insurance coverage mandate included in PPACA, effective January 1, 2019.  Further, on January 20, 2017, the President signed an Executive Order directing federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the PPACA to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of any provision of the PPACA that would impose a fiscal burden on states or a cost, fee, tax, penalty or regulatory burden on individuals, healthcare providers, health insurers, or manufacturers of pharmaceuticals or medical devices. On October 13, 2017, the President signed an Executive Order terminating the cost-sharing subsidies that reimburse insurers under the PPACA. Several state Attorneys General filed suit to stop the administration from terminating the subsidies, but their request for a restraining order was denied by a federal judge in California on October 25, 2017.  In addition, CMS has recently proposed regulations that would give states greater flexibility in setting benchmarks for insurers in the individual and small group marketplaces, which may have the effect of relaxing the essential health benefits required under the PPACA for plans sold through such marketplaces. Congress may consider other legislation to replace elements of the PPACA.  The implications of the PPACA, its possible repeal, any legislation that may be proposed to replace the PPACA, or the political uncertainty surrounding any repeal or replacement legislation for our business and financial condition, if any, are not yet clear.. We cannot predict what healthcare reform initiatives may be adopted in the future. Further federal and state legislative and regulatory developments are likely, and we expect ongoing initiatives in the United States to increase pressure on drug pricing. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenues from product candidates that we may successfully develop and for which we may obtain regulatory approval and may affect our overall financial condition and ability to develop drug candidates.. Our ability to obtain services, reimbursement or funding from the federal government may be impacted by possible reductions in federal spending.. Under the Budget Control Act of 2011, the failure of Congress to enact deficit reduction measures of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021 triggered automatic cuts to most federal programs. These cuts included aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2 percent per fiscal year, starting in 2013. Certain of these automatic cuts have been implemented resulting in reductions in Medicare payments to physicians, hospitals, and other healthcare providers, among other things. The full impact on our business of these automatic cuts is uncertain.. If other federal spending is reduced, any budgetary shortfalls may also impact the ability of relevant agencies, such as the FDA or NIH to continue to function. Amounts allocated to federal grants and contracts may be reduced or eliminated. These reductions may also impact the ability of relevant agencies to timely review and approve drug research and development, manufacturing, and marketing activities, which may delay our ability to develop, market and sell any products we may develop.. There is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business.. Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. Product liability claims could delay or prevent completion of our clinical development programs. Following the decision to discontinue clinical development of revusiran, we conducted a comprehensive evaluation of available revusiran data. We reported the results of this evaluation on August 9, 2017, however, our investigation did not result in a conclusive explanation regarding the cause of the mortality imbalance observed in the ENDEAVOUR Phase 3 study. In addition, in September 2017, we announced that we had temporarily suspended dosing in all ongoing fitusiran studies pending further. 57. review of a fatal thrombotic SAE and agreement with regulatory authorities on a risk mitigation strategy. Notwithstanding the risks undertaken by all persons who participate in clinical trials, and the information on risks provided to study investigators and patients participating in revusiran and fitusiran studies, it is possible that product liability claims will be asserted against us relating to the worsening of a patient's condition, injury or death alleged to have been caused by revusiran or fitusiran. Such claims might not be fully covered by product liability insurance. If we succeed in marketing products, including patisiran, product liability claims could result in an FDA investigation of the safety and effectiveness of our products, our manufacturing processes and facilities or our marketing programs, and potentially a recall of our products or more serious enforcement action, limitations on the approved indications for which they may be used, or suspension or withdrawal of approvals. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may also result in decreased demand for our products, injury to our reputation, costs to defend the related litigation, a diversion of management's time and our resources, substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients and a decline in our stock price. We currently have product liability insurance that we believe is appropriate for our stage of development and may need to obtain higher levels prior to marketing any of our product candidates. Any insurance we have or may obtain may not provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses caused by product liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected.. Our research, development and manufacturing involve the use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We maintain quantities of various flammable and toxic chemicals in our facilities in Cambridge that are required for our research, development and manufacturing activities. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. We believe our procedures for storing, handling and disposing these materials in our Cambridge facilities comply with the relevant guidelines of the City of Cambridge, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards mandated by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials.. Although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations.. Risks Related to Patents, Licenses and Trade Secrets. If we are not able to obtain and enforce patent protection for our discoveries, our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates will be harmed.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. However, we may not hold proprietary rights to some patents required for us to manufacture and commercialize our proposed products. Because certain U.S. patent applications are confidential until the patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after such date which will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over those applications. For this and other reasons, we may be unable to secure desired patent rights, thereby losing desired exclusivity. Further, we may be required to obtain licenses under third-party patents to market our proposed products or conduct our research and development or other activities. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities.. Our strategy depends on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. In addition, we may rely on third-party collaborators to file patent applications relating to proprietary technology that we develop jointly during certain collaborations. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming. If our present or future collaborators fail to file and prosecute all necessary and desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, our business may be adversely affected. Despite our efforts and the efforts of our collaborators to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may. 58. be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. While issued patents are presumed valid, this does not guarantee that the patent will survive a validity challenge or be held enforceable. Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated, adjudged unenforceable or circumvented by parties attempting to design around our intellectual property. Moreover, third parties or the USPTO may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. Any challenge to, finding of unenforceability or invalidation or circumvention of, our patents or patent applications, would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, could reduce or eliminate royalty payments to us from third party licensors and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Similarly, the ultimate degree of protection that will be afforded to biotechnology inventions, including ours, in the United States and foreign countries, remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of the protection decided upon by patent offices, courts and lawmakers. Moreover, there are periodic discussions in the Congress of the United States and in international jurisdictions about modifying various aspects of patent law. For example, the America Invents Act included a number of changes to the patent laws of the United States. If any of the enacted changes do not provide adequate protection for discoveries, including our ability to pursue infringers of our patents for substantial damages, our business could be adversely affected. One major provision of the America Invents Act, which took effect in March 2013, changed United States patent practice from a first-to-invent to a first-to-file system. If we fail to file an invention before a competitor files on the same invention, we no longer have the ability to provide proof that we were in possession of the invention prior to the competitor's filing date, and thus would not be able to obtain patent protection for our invention. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents.. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. We also rely to a certain extent on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. We license patent rights from third-party owners. If such owners do not properly or successfully obtain, maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed.. We are a party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. In particular, we have obtained licenses from, among others, CRT, Ionis, MIT, Whitehead, Max Planck Innovation and Arbutus. We also intend to enter into additional licenses to third-party intellectual property in the future.. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for our licensed intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we are licensed. Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. In addition, we sublicense our rights under various third-party licenses to our collaborators. Any impairment of these sublicensed rights could result in reduced revenues under our collaboration agreements or result in termination of an agreement by one or more of our collaborators.. Other companies or organizations may challenge our patent rights or may assert patent rights that prevent us from developing and commercializing our products.. RNAi is a relatively new scientific field, the commercial exploitation of which has resulted in many different patents and patent applications from organizations and individuals seeking to obtain patent protection in the field. We have obtained grants and issuances of RNAi patents and have licensed many of these patents from third parties on an exclusive basis. The issued patents and pending patent applications in the United States and in key markets around the world that we own or license claim many different methods, compositions and processes relating to the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics.. Specifically, we have a portfolio of patents, patent applications and other intellectual property covering: fundamental aspects of the structure and uses of siRNAs, including their use as therapeutics, and RNAi-related mechanisms; chemical modifications to siRNAs that improve their suitability for therapeutic and other uses; siRNAs directed to specific targets as treatments for particular diseases; delivery technologies, such as in the fields of carbohydrate conjugates and cationic liposomes; and all aspects of our specific development candidates.. 59. As the field of RNAi therapeutics is maturing, patent applications are being fully processed by national patent offices around the world. There is uncertainty about which patents will issue, and, if they do, as to when, to whom, and with what claims. It is likely that there will be significant litigation and other proceedings, such as interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings, as well as inter partes and post-grant review proceedings introduced by provisions of the America Invents Act, which became available to third party challengers on September 16, 2012, in various patent offices relating to patent rights in the RNAi field. For example, various third parties have initiated oppositions to patents in our McSwiggen, Kreutzer-Limmer and Tuschl II series in the EPO and in other jurisdictions. We expect that additional oppositions will be filed in the EPO and elsewhere, and other challenges will be raised relating to other patents and patent applications in our portfolio. In many cases, the possibility of appeal exists for either us or our opponents, and it may be years before final, unappealable rulings are made with respect to these patents in certain jurisdictions. The timing and outcome of these and other proceedings is uncertain and may adversely affect our business if we are not successful in defending the patentability and scope of our pending and issued patent claims. In addition, third parties may attempt to invalidate our intellectual property rights. Even if our rights are not directly challenged, disputes could lead to the weakening of our intellectual property rights. Our defense against any attempt by third parties to circumvent or invalidate our intellectual property rights could be costly to us, could require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to successfully compete in the field of RNAi.. There are many issued and pending patents that claim aspects of oligonucleotide chemistry and modifications that we may need for our siRNA therapeutic candidates. There are also many issued patents that claim targeting genes or portions of genes that may be relevant for siRNA drugs we wish to develop. In addition, there may be issued and pending patent applications that may be asserted against us in a court proceeding or otherwise based upon the asserting party's belief that we may need such patents for our siRNA therapeutic candidates. Thus, it is possible that one or more organizations will hold patent rights to which we may need a license, or hold patent rights which could be asserted against us. If those organizations refuse to grant us a license to such patent rights on reasonable terms and/or a court rules that we need such patent rights that have been asserted against us and we are not able to obtain a license on reasonable terms, we may be unable to market products or perform research and development or other activities covered by such patents. For example, Silence issued and has now served, a claim in the High Court of England and Wales, naming us, our wholly owned subsidiary Alnylam UK Ltd., and The Medicines Company UK Ltd as co-defendants. The claim seeks a declaration that Silence is entitled to supplementary protection certificates, or SPCs, based on a European patent held by Silence, that Silence alleges covers certain of our product candidates. An SPC is an intellectual property right that could extend the life of the Silence patent in relation to a specified product for a period of up to five additional years bringing the potential expiration date to 2028. On October 27, 2017, we, through our affiliate Alnylam UK Ltd., and The Medicines Company UK Ltd filed and served a claim against Silence Therapeutics GmbH and Silence in the High Court of England and Wales seeking revocation of Silence's patent, as well as a declaration of non-infringement by each of the products of such patent, and costs and interest among other potential remedies.  On November 30, 2017, we and The Medicines Company UK Ltd filed our defense to Silence's claim against us denying that the products that are the subject of Silence's claim against us fall under the Silence patent or that they are entitled to an SPC based on that patent.  Both cases are expected to be tried in the High Court of England and Wales in December 2018.  Although we believe Silence's patent is invalid and not infringed by our product candidates and that, therefore, Silence would not be entitled to obtain an SPC based on any of our product candidates, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainty, and a court could ultimately rule against us.. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our product development and commercialization efforts.. Third parties may sue us for infringing their patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of others or protect our proprietary information and trade secrets. For example, during the second quarter of 2015, we filed a trade secret misappropriation lawsuit against Dicerna , to protect our rights in the RNAi assets we purchased from Merck. A third party may also claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. For example, in March 2011, Arbutus (formerly Tekmira) filed a civil complaint against us alleging, among other things, misappropriation of its confidential and proprietary information and trade secrets. In November 2012, we settled this litigation and restructured our contractual relationship with Arbutus. In connection with this restructuring, we incurred a $65.0 million charge to operating expenses during the quarter ended December 31, 2012.. In protecting our intellectual patent rights through litigation or other means, a third party may claim that we have improperly asserted our rights against them.  For example, in August 2017, Dicerna successfully added counterclaims against us in the above-referenced trade secret lawsuit alleging that our lawsuit represented abuse of process and claiming tortious interference with its business.  In addition, in August 2017, Dicerna filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court of Massachusetts alleging  attempted monopolization by us under the Sherman Antitrust Act.  Although we believe we have meritorious claims against Dicerna and meritorious defenses and responses to the counterclaims and federal claim being asserted by Dicerna, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainty, we will incur significant costs in defending against such claims and a court could rule against us awarding unspecified money damages.. 60. Furthermore, third parties may challenge the inventorship of our patents or licensed patents. For example, in March 2011, The University of Utah, or Utah, filed a complaint against us, Max Planck Gesellschaft Zur Foerderung Der Wissenschaften e.V. and Max Planck Innovation, together, Max Planck, Whitehead, MIT and UMass, claiming that a professor of Utah was the sole inventor, or in the alternative, a joint inventor of certain of our in-licensed patents. Utah was seeking correction of inventorship of the Tuschl patents, unspecified damages and other relief. After several years of court proceedings and discovery, the court granted our motions for summary judgment, and dismissed Utah's state law damages claims as well. During the pendency of this litigation, as well as the Arbutus litigation described above, we incurred significant costs, and in each case, the litigation diverted the attention of our management and other resources that would otherwise have been engaged in other activities.. In addition, in connection with certain license and collaboration agreements, we have agreed to indemnify certain third parties for certain costs incurred in connection with litigation relating to intellectual property rights or the subject matter of the agreements. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and litigation would divert our management's efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could delay our research and development efforts and limit our ability to continue our operations.. If any parties successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon or otherwise violates their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties' patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. Moreover, we expect that a number of our collaborations will provide that royalties payable to us for licenses to our intellectual property may be offset by amounts paid by our collaborators to third parties who have competing or superior intellectual property positions in the relevant fields, which could result in significant reductions in our revenues from products developed through collaborations.. If we fail to comply with our obligations under any licenses or related agreements, we may be required to pay damages and could lose license or other rights that are necessary for developing and protecting our RNAi technology and any related product candidates that we develop, or we could lose certain rights to grant sublicenses.. Our current licenses impose, and any future licenses we enter into are likely to impose, various development, commercialization, funding, milestone, royalty, diligence, sublicensing, insurance, patent prosecution and enforcement, and other obligations on us. If we breach any of these obligations, or use the intellectual property licensed to us in an unauthorized manner, we may be required to pay damages and the licensor may have the right to terminate the license or render the license non-exclusive, which could result in us being unable to develop, manufacture, market and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology or enable a competitor to gain access to the licensed technology. For example, in 2013, Arbutus (formerly Tekmira) notified us that it believed it had achieved a $5.0 million milestone payment under our cross-license agreement relating to the manufacture of ALN-VSP clinical trial material for use in China. We notified Arbutus that we did not believe that the milestone has been achieved under the terms of the cross-license agreement. In August 2013, we initiated binding arbitration proceedings seeking a declaratory judgment that Arbutus had not yet met the conditions of the milestone and was not entitled to payment at the time. The Arbutus arbitration hearing was held in May 2015. On March 9, 2016, the arbitration panel ruled in our favor and as a result, no milestone payment is due to Arbutus at this time. Arbutus did not appeal this ruling.. Moreover, our licensors may own or control intellectual property that has not been licensed to us and, as a result, we may be subject to claims, regardless of their merit, that we are infringing or otherwise violating the licensor's rights. In addition, while we cannot currently determine the amount of the royalty obligations we will be required to pay on sales of future products, if any, the amounts may be significant. The amount of our future royalty obligations will depend on the technology and intellectual property we use in products that we successfully develop and commercialize, if any. Therefore, even if we successfully develop and commercialize products, we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability.. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information.. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers, and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of. 61. unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.. Risks Related to Competition. The pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing drugs, new treatment methods and new technologies, we may be unable to commercialize successfully any drugs that we develop.. The pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs for the same diseases that we are targeting or expect to target. Many of our competitors have:. •  much greater financial, technical and human resources than we have at every stage of the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of products;. •  more extensive experience in pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and in manufacturing, marketing and selling drug products;. •  product candidates that are based on previously tested or accepted technologies;. •  products that have been approved or are in late stages of development; and. •  collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions.. We will face intense competition from drugs that have already been approved and accepted by the medical community for the treatment of the conditions for which we may develop drugs. We also expect to face competition from new drugs that enter the market. We believe a number of drugs are currently under development, and may become commercially available in the future, for the treatment of conditions for which we may try to develop drugs. These drugs may be more effective, safer, less expensive, or marketed and sold more effectively, than any products we develop. For example, we are developing patisiran for the treatment of hATTR amyloidosis. In November 2017, we reported positive complete results from our APOLLO Phase 3 clinical trial and generally encouraging safety data, and in December 2017, we submitted our first NDA and MAA for patisiran.  In January 2018, we announced that the EMA has accepted the MAA and initiated its review. Patisiran was previously granted an accelerated assessment by the EMA.  In early February 2018, we announced that the FDA has accepted our NDA and granted our request for priority review, with an action date of August 11, 2018. We are aware of other approved products used to treat this disease, including tafamidis, marketed by Pfizer in Europe and certain countries outside the United States, as well as product candidates in various stages of clinical development, including an investigational drug being developed by Ionis. In October and November 2017, Ionis reported positive efficacy data as well as safety data from its Phase 3 clinical trial in hATTR amyloidosis, including thrombocytopenia and renal insufficiency SAEs. In November 2017, Ionis reported that it has filed its NDA and MAA for this investigational drug and in January 2018, reported that the FDA had accepted its NDA for priority review and set a PDUFA date of July 6, 2018. While we believe that patisiran will have a competitive product profile, it is possible it will not compete favorably with these products and product candidates, or others, and even if approved, it may not achieve commercial success.. If we successfully develop product candidates, and obtain approval for them, we will face competition based on many different factors, including:. •  the safety and effectiveness of our products relative to alternative therapies, if any;. •  the ease with which our products can be administered and the extent to which patients accept relatively new routes of administration;. •  the timing and scope of regulatory approvals for these products;. •  the availability and cost of manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities;. •  price;. •  reimbursement coverage; and. •  patent position.. Our competitors may develop or commercialize products with significant advantages over any products we develop based on any of the factors listed above or on other factors. Our competitors may therefore be more successful in commercializing their products than we are, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. Competitive products may make any. 62. products we develop obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our product candidates. Such competitors could also recruit our employees, which could negatively impact our level of expertise and the ability to execute on our business plan. Furthermore, we also face competition from existing and new treatment methods that reduce or eliminate the need for drugs, such as the use of advanced medical devices. The development of new medical devices or other treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could make our product candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical.. We face competition from other companies that are working to develop novel drugs and technology platforms using technology similar to ours. If these companies develop drugs more rapidly than we do or their technologies, including delivery technologies, are more effective, our ability to successfully commercialize drugs may be adversely affected.. In addition to the competition we face from competing drugs in general, we also face competition from other companies working to develop novel drugs using technology that competes more directly with our own. We are aware of several other companies that are working to develop RNAi therapeutic products. Some of these companies are seeking, as we are, to develop chemically synthesized siRNAs as drugs. Others are following a gene therapy approach, with the goal of treating patients not with synthetic siRNAs but with synthetic, exogenously-introduced genes designed to produce siRNA-like molecules within cells. Companies working on chemically synthesized siRNAs include Takeda, Marina, Arrowhead, and its subsidiary, Calando, Quark, Silence, Arbutus, Sylentis, Dicerna, WAVE and Arcturus. In addition, we granted licenses or options for licenses to Ionis, Benitec, Arrowhead, and its subsidiary, Calando, Arbutus, Quark, Sylentis and others under which these companies may independently develop RNAi therapeutics against a limited number of targets. Any one of these companies may develop its RNAi technology more rapidly and more effectively than us.. In addition, as a result of agreements that we have entered into, Arrowhead, as the assignee of Roche, and Takeda have obtained non-exclusive licenses, and Arrowhead, as the assignee of Novartis Pharma AG, has obtained specific exclusive licenses for 30 gene targets, that include access to certain aspects of our technology that give them the right to compete with us in certain circumstances. We also compete with companies working to develop antisense-based drugs. Like RNAi therapeutics, antisense drugs target mRNAs in order to suppress the activity of specific genes. Ionis is currently marketing several antisense drugs and has multiple antisense product candidates in clinical trials, including one for the treatment of hATTR amyloidosis that is currently under regulatory review in the United States and the EU. Ionis is also developing antisense drugs using ligand-conjugated GalNAc technology licensed from us, and these drugs have been shown to have increased potency at lower doses in clinical and pre-clinical studies, compared with antisense drugs that do not use such licensed GalNAc technology. The development of antisense drugs is more advanced than that of RNAi therapeutics, and antisense technology may become the preferred technology for drugs that target mRNAs to silence specific genes.. In addition to competition with respect to RNAi and with respect to specific products, we face substantial competition to discover and develop safe and effective means to deliver siRNAs to the relevant cell and tissue types. Safe and effective means to deliver siRNAs to the relevant cell and tissue types may be developed by our competitors, and our ability to successfully commercialize a competitive product would be adversely affected. In addition, substantial resources are being expended by third parties in the effort to discover and develop a safe and effective means of delivering siRNAs into the relevant cell and tissue types, both in academic laboratories and in the corporate sector. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, and if our competitors are able to negotiate exclusive access to those delivery solutions developed by third parties, we may be unable to successfully commercialize our product candidates.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. If our stock price fluctuates, purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to factors that are beyond our control. The stock market in general has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and the biotechnology in particular has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the clinical development progress or operating performance of these companies, including as a result of adverse development events. These broad market and sector fluctuations have resulted and could in the future result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause purchasers of our common stock to incur substantial losses.. We may incur significant costs from class action litigation due to stock volatility.. Our stock price may fluctuate for many reasons, including as a result of public announcements regarding the progress of our development and commercialization efforts or the development and commercialization efforts of our collaborators and/or competitors, the addition or departure of our key personnel, variations in our quarterly operating results and changes in market valuations of. 63. pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. For example, in October 2016, we announced that we were discontinuing the development of revusiran and our stock price declined significantly as a result and in September 2017, following our temporary suspension of dosing in our fitusiran program, our stock also declined, although to a lesser extent. When the market price of a stock has been volatile as our stock price has been, holders of that stock have occasionally brought securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit of this type against us, even if the lawsuit is without merit, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management.. Sales of additional shares of our common stock, including by us or our directors and officers, could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the availability of such shares for sale, by us or others, including the issuance of common stock upon exercise of outstanding options, could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Sanofi Genzyme's ownership of our common stock could delay or prevent a change in corporate control.. Sanofi Genzyme currently holds approximately 11 percent of our outstanding common stock and has the right to increase its ownership up to 30 percent, as well as the right to maintain its then current ownership percentage through the term of our collaboration, subject to certain limitations. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by:. •  delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company;. •  impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or. •  discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include:. •  a classified board of directors;. •  a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent;. •  limitations on the removal of directors; and. •  advance notice requirements for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings.. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15 percent of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15 percent of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some stockholders."
