[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial position and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We (1) may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including earnings guidance and other statements contained in filings with the SEC, reports to security. _____________________________________________________. (1) This section uses the terms \"we,\" \"our\" and \"us\" when it is not necessary to distinguish among Altria Group, Inc. and its various operating subsidiaries or when any distinction is clear from the context.. 4. Table of Contents. holders, press releases and investor webcasts.  You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as \"strategy,\" \"expects,\" \"continues,\" \"plans,\" \"anticipates,\" \"believes,\" \"will,\" \"estimates,\" \"forecasts,\" \"intends,\" \"projects,\" \"goals,\" \"objectives,\" \"guidance,\" \"targets\" and other words of similar meaning.  You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans, estimates and assumptions.  Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate.  Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying estimates or assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected.  You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in Altria Group, Inc.'s securities. In connection with the \"safe harbor\" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in, or implied by, any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements.  We elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in the \"Business Environment\" sections preceding our discussion of the operating results of our subsidiaries' businesses below in Item 7.  You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors.  Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.  We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time except as required by applicable law.. Unfavorable litigation outcomes could materially adversely affect the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or the businesses of one or more of its subsidiaries.. Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees.  Various types of claims may be raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband-related claims, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors.. Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending or future cases.  An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related or other litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation.  Damages claimed in some tobacco-related or other litigation are significant and, in certain cases, have ranged in the billions of dollars.  The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may. be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome.  In certain cases, plaintiffs claim that defendants' liability is joint and several.  In such cases, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries may face the risk that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to participate in the bonding required for an appeal or to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment.  As a result, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries under certain circumstances may have to pay more than their proportionate share of any bonding- or judgment-related amounts. Furthermore, in those cases where plaintiffs are successful, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries may also be required to pay interest and attorneys' fees.. Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases.  This risk has been substantially reduced given that 47 states and Puerto Rico now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.  As discussed in Note 18. Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (\"Note 18\"), tobacco litigation plaintiffs have challenged the constitutionality of Florida's bond cap statute in several cases and plaintiffs may challenge state bond cap statutes in other jurisdictions as well.  Such challenges may include the applicability of state bond caps in federal court.  Although we cannot predict the outcome of such challenges, it is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or the businesses of one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially adversely affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome of one or more such challenges.. In certain litigation, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may face potentially significant non-monetary remedies, which may cause reputational harm.  For example, in the lawsuit brought by the United States Department of Justice, discussed in detail in Note 18, the district court did not impose monetary penalties but ordered significant non-monetary remedies, including the issuance of \"corrective statements\" that Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA began making in various media in the fourth quarter of 2017.. Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial success in managing litigation.  Nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty, and significant challenges remain.. It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or the businesses of one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially adversely affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation.  Altria Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts.  Each of the companies has defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges.  However, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into. 5. Table of Contents. settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so.  See Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (\"Item 3\"), Note 18 and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of pending tobacco-related litigation.. Significant federal, state and local governmental actions, including actions by the FDA, and various private sector actions may continue to have an adverse impact on our tobacco subsidiaries' businesses and sales volumes.. As described in Tobacco Space - Business Environment in Item 7, our cigarette subsidiaries face significant governmental and private sector actions, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of tobacco use and efforts seeking to hold these subsidiaries responsible for the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke.  These actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking, have resulted in reduced cigarette industry volume, and we expect that these factors will continue to reduce cigarette consumption levels.. Actions by the FDA and other federal, state or local governments or agencies, including those specific actions described in Tobacco Space - Business Environment in Item 7, may impact the adult tobacco consumer acceptability of or access to tobacco products (for example, through product standards), limit adult tobacco consumer choices, delay or prevent the launch of new or modified tobacco products or products with claims of reduced risk, require the recall or other removal of tobacco products from the marketplace (for example as a result of product contamination, a determination by the FDA that one or more tobacco products do not satisfy the statutory requirements for substantial equivalence, or because the FDA requires that a modification to a currently-marketed tobacco product proceed through the pre-market review process), restrict communications to adult tobacco consumers, restrict the ability to differentiate tobacco products, create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies, impose additional manufacturing, labeling or packing requirements, interrupt manufacturing or otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business, or restrict or prevent the use of specified tobacco products in certain locations or the sale of tobacco products by certain retail establishments.  Any one or more of these actions may have a material adverse impact on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries.  See Tobacco Space - Business Environment in Item 7 for a more detailed discussion.. Tobacco products are subject to substantial taxation, which could have an adverse impact on sales of the tobacco products of Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries.. Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes, and significant increases in tobacco product-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States at the state, federal and local levels. Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of the tobacco products of our tobacco. subsidiaries through lower consumption levels and the potential shift in adult consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products. Such shifts may have an adverse impact on the reported share performance of tobacco products of Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries. For further discussion, see Tobacco Space - Business Environment - Excise Taxes in Item 7.. Our tobacco businesses face significant competition within their categories and their failure to compete effectively could have an adverse effect on the consolidated results of operations or cash flows of Altria Group, Inc., or the business of Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries.. Each of Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries operates in highly competitive tobacco categories.   Significant methods of competition include product quality, taste, price, product innovation, marketing, packaging, distribution and promotional activities.  A highly competitive environment could negatively impact the profitability, market share and shipment volume of our tobacco subsidiaries, which could have an adverse effect on the consolidated results of operations or cash flows of Altria Group, Inc.. PM USA also faces competition from lowest priced brands sold by certain United States and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to settlements of certain tobacco litigation in the United States.  These settlements, among other factors, have resulted in substantial cigarette price increases.  These manufacturers may fail to comply with related state escrow legislation or may avoid escrow deposit obligations on the majority of their sales by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer than all such manufacturers' cigarettes sold in such states.  Additional competition has resulted from diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and imports of foreign lowest priced brands.  USSTC faces significant competition in the smokeless tobacco category and has experienced consumer down-trading to lower-priced brands.  In the cigar category, additional competition has resulted from increased imports of machine-made large cigars manufactured offshore.. Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may be unsuccessful in anticipating changes in adult consumer preferences, responding to changes in consumer purchase behavior or managing through difficult competitive and economic conditions.. Each of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries is subject to intense competition and changes in adult consumer preferences.  To be successful, they must continue to:. <U+25AA> promote brand equity successfully;. 6. Table of Contents. <U+25AA> anticipate and respond to new and evolving adult consumer preferences;. <U+25AA> develop, manufacture, market and distribute products that appeal to adult consumers (including, where appropriate, through arrangements with, or investments in, third parties);. <U+25AA> improve productivity; and. <U+25AA> protect or enhance margins through cost savings and price increases.. See Tobacco Space - Business Environment - Summary in Item 7 for additional discussion concerning evolving adult tobacco consumer preferences, including e-vapor products.  Growth of this product category could contribute to reductions in cigarette consumption levels and cigarette industry sales volume and could adversely affect the growth rates of other tobacco products.. The willingness of adult consumers to purchase premium consumer product brands depends in part on economic conditions.  In periods of economic uncertainty, adult consumers may purchase more discount brands and/or, in the case of tobacco products, consider lower-priced tobacco products, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  While our tobacco and wine subsidiaries work to broaden their brand portfolios to compete effectively with lower-priced products, the failure to do so could negatively impact our companies' ability to compete in these circumstances.. Our financial services business (conducted through PMCC) holds investments in finance leases, principally in transportation (including aircraft), power generation, real estate and manufacturing equipment.  Its lessees are subject to significant competition and uncertain economic conditions.  If parties to PMCC's leases fail to manage through difficult economic and competitive conditions, PMCC may have to increase its allowance for losses, which would adversely affect our earnings.. Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries may be unsuccessful in developing and commercializing adjacent products or processes, including innovative tobacco products that may reduce the health risks associated with current tobacco products and that appeal to adult tobacco consumers, which may have an adverse effect on their ability to grow new revenue streams and/or put them at a competitive disadvantage.. Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have growth strategies involving moves and potential moves into adjacent products or processes, including innovative tobacco products.  Some innovative tobacco products may reduce the health risks associated with current tobacco products, while continuing to offer adult tobacco consumers (within and outside the United States) products that meet their taste expectations and evolving preferences. Examples include tobacco-containing and nicotine-containing products that reduce or eliminate exposure to cigarette smoke and/or constituents identified by public health authorities as harmful. These efforts may include arrangements with, or. investments in, third parties.  Our tobacco subsidiaries may not succeed in their efforts to introduce such new products, which would have an adverse effect on the ability to grow new revenue streams.. Further, we cannot predict whether regulators, including the FDA, will permit the marketing or sale of products with claims of reduced risk to adult consumers, the speed with which they may make such determinations or whether regulators will impose an unduly burdensome regulatory framework on such products.  Nor can we predict whether adult tobacco consumers' purchasing decisions would be affected by reduced risk claims if permitted.  Adverse developments on any of these matters could negatively impact the commercial viability of such products.. If our tobacco subsidiaries do not succeed in their efforts to develop and commercialize innovative tobacco products or to obtain regulatory approval for the marketing or sale of products with claims of reduced risk, but one or more of their competitors do succeed, our tobacco subsidiaries may be at a competitive disadvantage.. Significant changes in tobacco leaf price, availability or quality could have an adverse effect on the profitability and business of Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries.. Any significant change in tobacco leaf prices, quality or availability could adversely affect our tobacco subsidiaries' profitability and business.  For further discussion, see Tobacco Space - Business Environment - Price, Availability and Quality of Agricultural Products in Item 7.. Because Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries rely on a few significant facilities and a small number of key suppliers, an extended disruption at a facility or in service by a supplier could have a material adverse effect on the business, the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries.. Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries face risks inherent in reliance on a few significant facilities and a small number of key suppliers.  A natural or man-made disaster or other disruption that affects the manufacturing operations of any of Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries or the operations of any key suppliers of any of Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries, including as a result of a key supplier's unwillingness to supply goods or services to a tobacco company, could adversely impact the operations of the affected subsidiaries.  An extended disruption in operations experienced by one or more of Altria Group, Inc.'s subsidiaries or key suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the business, the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries.. Altria Group, Inc.'s subsidiaries could decide or be required to recall products, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, reputation, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.. 7. Table of Contents. In addition to a recall required by the FDA, as referenced above, our subsidiaries could decide, or laws or regulations could require them, to recall products due to the failure to meet quality standards or specifications, suspected or confirmed and deliberate or unintentional product contamination, or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering.  In January 2017, USSTC announced that it was voluntarily recalling certain of its smokeless tobacco products manufactured at a USSTC facility due to product tampering.  USSTC recorded a charge during the first quarter of 2017 related to this recall.  While this charge was not material to Altria Group, Inc.'s financial statements, future recalls (if any) could have a material adverse effect on the business, reputation, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.. Altria Group, Inc. may be unable to attract and retain the best talent due to the impact of decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage and tobacco control actions.. Our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining the best talent may be impaired by the impact of decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage and tobacco regulation and control actions.  The tobacco industry competes for talent with the consumer products industry and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance.  As a result, we may be unable to attract and retain the best talent.. Acquisitions or other events may adversely affect Altria Group, Inc.'s credit rating, and Altria Group, Inc. may not achieve its anticipated strategic or financial objectives of a transaction.. From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. considers acquisitions and may engage in confidential acquisition negotiations that are not publicly announced unless and until those negotiations result in a definitive agreement.  Although we seek to maintain or improve our credit ratings over time, it is possible that completing a given acquisition or the occurrence of other events could negatively impact our credit ratings or the outlook for those ratings.  Any such change in ratings or outlook may negatively affect the amount of credit available to us and may also increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings or our dividend rate.. Furthermore, acquisition opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms or that we will realize any of the anticipated benefits from an acquisition.. Disruption and uncertainty in the debt capital markets could adversely affect Altria Group, Inc.'s access to the debt capital markets, earnings and dividend rate.. Access to the debt capital markets is important for us to satisfy our liquidity and financing needs.  Disruption and uncertainty in the credit and debt capital markets and any resulting adverse impact on credit availability, pricing, credit terms or credit rating. may negatively affect the amount of credit available to us and may also increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings or our dividend rate.. Altria Group, Inc. may be required to write down intangible assets, including goodwill, due to impairment, which would reduce earnings.. We periodically calculate the fair value of our reporting units and intangible assets to test for impairment.  This calculation may be affected by several factors, including general economic conditions, regulatory developments, changes in category growth rates as a result of changing adult consumer preferences, success of planned new product introductions, competitive activity and tobacco-related taxes.  Certain events can also trigger an immediate review of intangible assets.  If an impairment is determined to exist in either situation, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings.. Competition, unfavorable changes in grape supply and new governmental regulations or revisions to existing governmental regulations could adversely affect Ste. Michelle's wine business.. Ste. Michelle's business is subject to significant competition, including from many large, well-established domestic and international companies.  The adequacy of Ste. Michelle's grape supply is influenced by consumer demand for wine in relation to industry-wide production levels as well as by weather and crop conditions, particularly in eastern Washington.  Supply shortages related to any one or more of these factors could increase production costs and wine prices, which ultimately may have a negative impact on Ste. Michelle's sales.  In addition, federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies.  New regulations or revisions to existing regulations, resulting in further restrictions or taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages, may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle's wine business.  For further discussion, see Wine Segment - Business Environment in Item 7.. The failure of Altria Group, Inc.'s information systems or service providers' information systems to function as intended, or cyber-attacks or security breaches, could have a material adverse effect on the business, reputation, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.. Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries rely extensively on information systems, many of which are managed by third-party service providers (such as cloud providers), to support a variety of business processes and activities, including: complying with regulatory, legal, financial reporting and tax requirements; engaging in marketing and e-commerce activities; managing and improving the effectiveness of our operations; manufacturing and distributing our products; collecting and storing sensitive data and confidential information; and communicating internally and externally with employees, investors, suppliers, trade customers,. 8. Table of Contents. adult consumers and others.  We continue to make investments in administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect our information systems and data from cyber-threats, including human error and malicious acts.  Our safeguards include employee training, testing and auditing protocols, backup systems and business continuity plans, maintenance of security policies and procedures, monitoring of networks and systems, and third-party risk management.. To date, interruptions of our information systems have been infrequent and have not had a material impact on our operations.  However, because technology is increasingly complex and cyber-attacks are increasingly sophisticated and more frequent, there can be no assurance that such incidents will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future. Failure of our systems or service providers' systems to function as intended, or cyber-attacks or security breaches, could result in loss of revenue, assets, personal data, intellectual property, trade secrets or other sensitive and confidential data, violation of applicable privacy and data security laws, damage to the reputation of our companies and their brands, operational disruptions, legal challenges and significant remediation and other costs to Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.. Unfavorable outcomes of any governmental investigations could materially affect the businesses of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.. From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters.  We cannot predict whether new investigations may be commenced or the outcome of any such investigation, and it is possible that our business could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome of a future investigation.. Expanding international business operations subjects Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries to various United States and foreign laws and regulations, and violations of such laws or regulations could result in reputational harm, legal challenges and/or significant costs.. While Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are primarily engaged in business activities in the United States, they do engage (directly or indirectly) in certain international business activities that are subject to various United States and foreign laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws prohibiting bribery and corruption.  Although we have a Code of Conduct and a compliance system designed to prevent and detect violations of applicable law, no system can provide assurance that it will always protect against improper actions by employees or third parties.  Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could result in reputational harm, legal challenges and/or significant costs.. Altria Group, Inc.'s reported earnings from and carrying value of its equity investment in AB InBev and the dividends paid by AB InBev on shares owned by Altria Group, Inc. may be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates and other factors.. For purposes of financial reporting, the earnings from and carrying value of our equity investment in AB InBev are translated into U.S. dollars from various local currencies.  In addition, AB InBev pays dividends in euros, which we convert into U.S. dollars.  During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar against these currencies, our reported earnings from and carrying value of our equity investment in AB InBev will be reduced because these currencies will translate into fewer U.S. dollars and the dividends that we receive from AB InBev will convert into fewer U.S. dollars.. Dividends and earnings from and carrying value of our equity investment in AB InBev are also subject to the risks encountered by AB InBev in its business.  We cannot provide any assurance that AB InBev will successfully execute its business plans and strategies.  Earnings from and carrying value of our equity investment in AB InBev are also subject to fluctuations in AB InBev's stock price, for example through mark-to-market losses on AB InBev's derivative financial instruments used to hedge certain share commitments.. We received a substantial portion of our consideration from the Transaction in the form of restricted shares subject to a five-year lock-up.  Furthermore, if our percentage ownership in AB InBev were to decrease below certain levels, we may be subject to additional tax liabilities, suffer a reduction in the number of directors that we can have appointed to the AB InBev Board of Directors and be unable to account for our investment under the equity method of accounting.. Upon completion of the Transaction, we received a substantial portion of our consideration in the form of restricted shares that cannot be sold or transferred for a period of five years following the Transaction, subject to limited exceptions.  These transfer restrictions will require us to bear the risks associated with our investment in AB InBev for a five-year period that expires on October 10, 2021.  Further, in the event that our ownership percentage in AB InBev were to decrease below certain levels, we may be subject to additional tax liabilities, the number of directors that we have the right to have appointed to the AB InBev Board of Directors could be reduced from two to one or zero and our use of the equity method of accounting for our investment in AB InBev could be challenged.. Our tax treatment of the Transaction consideration may be challenged and the tax treatment of AB InBev dividends may not be as favorable as Altria Group, Inc. anticipates.. While we expect the equity consideration that we received from the Transaction to qualify for tax-deferred treatment, we cannot provide any assurance that federal and state tax authorities will not challenge the expected tax treatment and, if they do, what the outcome of any such challenge will be.  In addition, there is a risk that the tax treatment of the dividends Altria Group, Inc. expects to receive from AB InBev may not be as favorable as Altria Group, Inc. anticipates."
