[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS:. The following information sets forth material risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, including our future financial and operational results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere as discussed in the introduction to Part I above. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present material risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products and services, including our ability to achieve their widespread market acceptance, is critical to the success of our business.. Most of our resources are dedicated to the commercialization of our products and services and in preparation for the commercialization of our product candidate, bremelanotide, for which we expect to file a New Drug Application in the first quarter of 2018. Our ability to generate significant revenue in the near-term will depend almost entirely on our ability to execute on our commercialization plans and the level of market adoption for, and the continued use of, our products and services (and, if approved, our product candidates) by physicians, hospitals, patients, and/or healthcare payers, including government payers, consumers, managed care organizations and specialty pharmacies. If we are not successful in commercializing our products or services, including achieving and maintaining an adequate level of market adoption, our profitability and our future business prospects will be adversely impacted.. The degree of commercial success and market acceptance of our products, services and product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including the following:. • The competitive landscape for our products, including the timing of new competing products (including generics) or services entering the market, and the level and speed at which competing products (current or new) experience market acceptance;. • Our ability to retain or grow our current customer base and maintain and efficiently deploy our expanded sales force and an experienced commercialization team to compete in the market, especially given the diverse nature of our product and services portfolio;. • Our ability to maintain commercially viable manufacturing processes that are compliant with applicable laws and regulations (including current good manufacturing practices (\"cGMP\")), and generate sufficient inventory of our products for commercial sale and clinical use and sufficient inventory of supplies to perform our services;. • Our ability to successfully and timely launch new and expanded products, such as the Makena auto-injector and Feraheme's newly approved broader indication;. • Actual or perceived advantages or disadvantages of our products, services or product candidate, including the safety and efficacy profile or the potential convenience and ease of administration, over alternative treatments or services, including generic versions;. 32. Table of Contents. • Our ability to engage with and educate healthcare providers and consumers to increase awareness and understanding of the underlying disease states that our products treat or the value of the underlying purpose of our products or services, including moderate to severe dyspareunia and hypoactive sexual desire disorder (\"HSDD\"), and recurrent preterm birth;. • Current and future restrictions or limitations on our approved or future indications and patient populations or other adverse regulatory actions;. • The relative price, constraints on pricing and the impact of price increases on our products or services, the availability and adequacy of reimbursement from government and third-party payers, and the willingness and ability of patients to pay for our products or services, including the willingness of healthcare providers to prescribe our products if more economical options are available;. • The success and timing of regulatory approval for current or future product candidates or indications, including our ability to obtain regulatory approval for bremelanotide in the U.S. and whether the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the \"FDA\") imposes any restrictions on its distribution;. • The performance of our manufacturers, license partners, distributors, providers and other business partners, over which we have limited control;. • The timely approval of new active pharmaceutical ingredient (\"API\") suppliers for Makena;. • Our ability to maintain compliance with all applicable FDA or accrediting organization regulations; and. • Our and our partners' ability to enforce intellectual property rights in and to our products to prohibit a third-party from marketing a competing product (including a generic product) and our ability to avoid third-party patent interference or intellectual property infringement claims.. Makena. Our ability to continue successfully commercializing Makena is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to differentiate Makena from other treatment options, especially after generic competitors enter the market. The outcome of our commercialization efforts will likely be adversely impacted by the timing and number of generic competitors that enter the market given the expiration of Makena's orphan drug exclusivity in February 2018. As part of our strategy to offer an alternative to our intramuscular (\"IM\") formulation of Makena (the \"Makena IM product\"), we have developed the Makena subcutaneous auto-injector (the \"Makena auto-injector\") for which we received FDA approval to market and sell in February 2018. We plan to launch this line extension product in March 2018. Our ability to maintain Makena market share and generate consistent revenues once we face generic competition is substantially dependent upon our ability to successfully launch the Makena auto-injector and rapidly convert current IM prescribers to the Makena auto-injector. We have limited experience in the commercialization of an auto-injector product. Our level of continued commercial success for the Makena franchise will depend on our ability to:. • Launch and commercialize the Makena auto-injector in a timely manner;. • Differentiate the benefits of the Makena auto-injector over the Makena IM product to prescribers, patients and third-party payers;. • Gain or maintain insurance coverage for the Makena auto-injector for patients through both commercial insurance companies and government programs such as Medicaid, and ensure that such insurance coverage does not create difficulties for physicians or patients to gain access to Makena, such as through requiring use of generic formulations prior to use of the branded Makena IM product or the Makena auto-injector;. • Provide training on the use of an auto-injector device to healthcare providers;. • Manufacture the auto-injector on a commercial scale;. • Maintain and defend the patent rights that we own or have licensed related to the Makena auto-injector;. • Increase patient compliance, including by optimizing efficiency by increasing home administration and reducing the turn around time from enrollment to the start of therapy; and. 33. Table of Contents. • Ensure an easy and convenient process for patients and healthcare providers to prescribe, acquire and administer the Makena auto-injector.. Failure to achieve any or all of the above objectives could have an adverse material effect on the commercialization of Makena and our ability to achieve our revenue forecasts, which could impact our financial condition or results of operations.. Although we intend to launch our own authorized generic formulation of Makena upon the first generic hydroxyprogesterone caproate (\"HPC\") injection entrant to the market to mitigate the anticipated decrease in Makena revenue as generic entrants gain market share, our Makena revenues may fall below expectations and as a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. For more information on generic competition, please see Risk Factor \"We no longer have market exclusivity for Makena and generic competitors are seeking approval to market generic versions of Makena, which would cause sales of Makena to significantly decline and have an adverse impact on our business and results of operation.\". CBR. The growth of our CBR Services depends on our ability to effectively compete with the growing number of blood banks, which often offer lower pricing and extended services. In addition, our ability to grow our CBR revenue depends, in part, on our ability to educate consumers and healthcare providers on the value of preserving newborn stem cells, rather than discarding the cells or opting for delayed clamping (\"DCC\"), a practice which has been shown to be beneficial to preterm babies but that may also reduce the volume of cord blood available for cord blood preservation. Professional medical organizations periodically recommend certain practices that may negatively impact our business. The perception of the future value and uses of cord blood stem cells and cord tissue stored with CBR is a key driver of CBR's business and therefore any significant changes to this perception, such as from generational behavior and attitudes, could have an adverse impact on sales of our CBR Services. For example, in January 2017, the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (\"ACOG\") issued a new opinion on DCC. In its opinion, ACOG noted that healthcare providers should counsel their patients that the benefits of DCC may outweigh cord blood banking. As DCC can significantly decrease the volume of cord blood stems cells collected, families may choose not to, or be unable to, bank their newborn's cord blood stem cells.. CBR's commercial growth is also dependent upon realizing the potential for cord blood stem cell and cord tissue science and upon increasing its recognition and adoption, as well as actual and perceived value and utility, among the medical community. CBR's success will be limited if applications are not developed, the FDA does not approve those applications, and if the medical community does not embrace, a broader set of applications than is currently established. There is no guarantee that any further applications will be recognized. Further, although cord blood is utilized for certain homologous uses in the child from whom the cord blood was recovered or in first- or second-degree relatives, if clinical research lowers the perceived value of cord blood stem cell and cord tissue collection, is unable to demonstrate the utility of cord blood stem cells and cord tissue for use in treating diseases or injuries in a broader set of applications or if the FDA does not permit the clinical use of cord blood stem cells and cord tissue processed and stored using CBR's methods for those applications, then healthcare professionals may discount its potential utility among patients and patients may decide not to preserve, or continue preserving, their child's cord blood stem cells and cord tissue for such expanded uses.. Feraheme. Our ability to grow Feraheme's market share, including our ability to maximize its market potential following the February 2018 approval of the expanded label to include all eligible adult patients with IDA, depends primarily on our ability to clinically differentiate Feraheme from its competitors, expand access through our contracting strategy and otherwise successfully execute our launch plan for the broader label. We believe the expanded label doubles the size of our addressable market; however, if we are unable to capture Feraheme's anticipated market share of the total IV iron market, if we have overestimated the size of such market or if the estimates we used to derive Feraheme's potential are incorrect, our profitability as well as our long-term business prospects could be adversely affected.. In addition, new safety or drug interaction issues may arise as Feraheme is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients, especially in light of the expanded label, some of whom may be taking other medicines or have additional underlying health problems. If issues arise, we may be required to, among other things, implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (\"REMS\"), provide additional warnings and/or restrictions related to Feraheme's current or future indications, notify healthcare providers of new safety information, narrow our approved indications, change the rate of administration, conduct additional post-approval studies and clinical trials, alter or terminate future trials for additional uses of Feraheme, or even remove Feraheme from the market. For example, our Feraheme label was changed in March 2015 to. 34. Table of Contents. include, among other things, the addition of a boxed warning and a change in the Dosing and Administration section to indicate that Feraheme should only be administered by IV infusion (replacing injection). These or any future changes to the label could adversely impact our ability to successfully compete in the IV iron market and could have an adverse impact on potential sales of Feraheme or require us to expend significant additional funds.. Intrarosa. One of the most critical steps in successfully commercializing Intrarosa, is to drive awareness of moderate to severe dyspareunia, a symptom of vulvar and vaginal atrophy (\"VVA\"), due to menopause and the potential benefits of Intrarosa. Despite significant marketing and educational efforts by industry participants intended to spread awareness of the condition and its treatment, studies suggest that women often do not recognize VVA or its symptoms, including dyspareunia due to menopause, as a treatable medical condition and are often not aware of treatment options. We plan to undertake certain informational and educational programs to help spread awareness of dyspareunia and VVA and the benefits of Intrarosa for the conditions indicated and such programs may not be successful, will be costly and may not result in the anticipated return on our investment. The market for VVA therapies, including Intrarosa's indication (i.e., women suffering from moderate to severe dyspareunia due to menopause), is uncertain, and the number of women suffering from the condition is unclear, in part because of a reluctance to discuss vaginal or sexual symptoms with their healthcare professionals. If we have over-estimated the market opportunity for Intrarosa, if we are unable to successfully spread awareness and educate the community about VVA generally (and moderate to severe dyspareunia in particular), or if our marketing efforts are unsuccessful and we cannot increase market share, then our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, we have limited experience with licensed products and with commercializing a drug in the field of post-menopausal women's health symptoms. Our future commercial success will significantly depend upon our ability to effectively maintain our commercial team and to leverage our relationships in the obstetrics and gynecology community. In order to support our growing portfolio, we will need to achieve revenues from sales of and other financial goals for Intrarosa consistent with our business expectations, which may prove more difficult than currently expected. For example, in order to create affordable access for patients due to the limited reimbursement coverage for Intrarosa, we offer patients a comprehensive copay savings program and samples, which has and will continue to impact our Intrarosa revenue. Any failure to achieve expectations could adversely affect our profitability.. Bremelanotide. We have limited experience with development-stage, investigational products such as bremelanotide, and the successful development and commercialization of bremelanotide is dependent upon our ability to obtain regulatory approval for bremelanotide in the U.S. on favorable terms. In addition, our ability to successfully commercialize bremelanotide, if approved, depends significantly on the level of success we have in raising awareness and understanding of HSDD, a type of female sexual dysfunction (\"FSD\"), and its treatment options, and the potential benefits of bremelanotide in treating HSDD as compared to alternative treatment options. For example, bremelanotide will be sold as a self-administered auto-injector and if patients or healthcare providers are hesitant or apprehensive to use an auto-injector product, our commercialization efforts may not be successful. For more information on bremelanotide, please see Risk Factor \"We have limited experience with development stage products and cannot ensure that we will be successful in gaining approval of our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all, including bremelanotide, or that such approval, if obtained, will not contain restrictions that the FDA may impose on the use or distribution of such product candidates.\". We no longer have market exclusivity for Makena and generic competitors are seeking approval to market generic versions of Makena, which would cause sales of Makena to significantly decline and have an adverse impact on our business and results of operation.. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, as amended (the \"Hatch - Waxman Act\") permits the FDA to approve an Abbreviated New Drug Application (\"ANDA\") for generic versions of brand name drugs like Makena. Generics are generally significantly less expensive than branded versions and government and other pressures to reduce pharmaceutical costs may result in a generic product being utilized before or in preference to the branded version of our products under third-party reimbursement programs or substituted by pharmacies under prescriptions written for the original listed drug.. Since acquiring Lumara Health Inc. (\"Lumara Health\") in 2014, the majority of our revenue has come from our Makena product. Following the expiration of its orphan drug exclusivity in February 2018, the Makena IM product is now subject to generic competition, which will subject us to increased competition and could significantly reduce the market share of the Makena brand name product. We currently believe that several companies filed ANDAs during 2017 seeking approval for. 35. Table of Contents. generic versions of Makena. The specific timing of potential approval of a generic HPC ANDA is uncertain, however we believe that Makena will face generic competition sometime in mid-2018.. The long-term success of the Makena franchise will be highly dependent on our ability to successfully commercialize the Makena auto-injector, which was approved for commercialization in February 2018, and which is intended to provide us with an alternative treatment method to the Makena IM product. Although there is no direct competition with the Makena auto-injector, the auto-injector will compete with generic versions of the Makena IM product, including our own authorized generic of the Makena IM product, discussed below. Physicians may choose to prescribe the generic formulation either because of the lower cost of the generics or because of a lack of perceived benefit of the Makena auto-injector, such as lack of improvement in safety or efficacy, or perceptions about the pain associated with the Makena auto-injector, which could cause sales of Makena to decline. We may not be able to convince patients or healthcare providers to use or to switch from using the IM method of administration to the auto-injector if the auto-injector is not priced competitively, does not provide comparable insurance coverage or if patients or healthcare providers are hesitant or apprehensive to use an auto-injector product. If we do not convert a sufficient number of patients to the auto-injector method, we could lose a significant amount of our Makena revenue and market share to generic competitors.. In addition, we have entered into an agreement with a generic partner to launch an authorized generic of the Makena IM product, which we intend to launch upon the first generic Makena entrant to the market to allow us to offset some of the impact of generics to branded Makena, including if a generic enters the market more quickly than we anticipate. We will be relying on our generic partner to successfully bring the authorized generic of Makena to market and for our successful commercialization thereafter. We have no experience working with a generic vendor and they may not be able enter into contracts with purchasers on favorable terms, or at all. Further, we are responsible for supplying product to our authorized generic partner and if there are problems in the supply chain, we will be subject to certain penalties, which could be substantial. If we and our partner are not able to capture sufficient market share, or if generics are sold at a significant discount to Makena's price, it could materially and adversely affect the level of sales and the price at which we can sell Makena and, ultimately, our stock price and results of operations.. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries, including from companies marketing generic products, is intense and competition in the cord blood stem cell and cord tissue banking processing and storage business is increasing. If we fail to compete effectively, our business and market position will suffer.. The pharmaceutical and cord blood banking industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Our existing or potential competitors have or may develop products or services that are more widely accepted than ours, are viewed as more safe, effective, convenient or easier to administer, have been on the market longer and have stronger patient/provider loyalty, have been approved for a larger patient population, are less expensive or offer more attractive insurance coverage, discounts, reimbursements, incentives or rebates and may have or receive patent protection that dominates, blocks, makes obsolete or adversely affects our product development or business. Any such advantages enjoyed by our competitors could reduce our revenues and the value of our commercialization and product development efforts.. Makena competition currently comes mainly from pharmacies that compound a non-FDA approved version of Makena, which is sold at a much lower list price and is less regulated than Makena. However, we expect the competitive landscape for Makena to impose even greater challenges upon our commercialization efforts when generic formulations of HPC injection enter the market. For more information on generic competition, please see Risk Factor \"We no longer have market exclusivity for Makena and generic competitors are seeking approval to market generic versions of Makena, which would cause sales of Makena to significantly decline and have an adverse impact on our business and results of operation.\" We also expect to continue to face competition for Makena from products that may be prescribed off-label (i.e., outside of indications approved by the FDA) such as the generic version of Delalutin, as well as products currently in development which offer additional formulations or routes of administration that doctors believe may reduce or prevent preterm birth, such as an oral HPC product.. Many of our competitors for Feraheme and Intrarosa are large, well-known pharmaceutical companies and may benefit from significantly greater financial, sales and marketing capabilities, greater technological or competitive advantages, and other resources. Feraheme competes primarily with Injectafer®, a ferric carboxymaltose injection, Venofer®, an iron sucrose complex, and INFeD®, an iron dextran product and there are a number of oral iron replacement therapies either approved, such as Auryxia® (ferric citrate), an oral phosphate binder, or in development, such as Monofer® (iron isomaltoside), and hypoxia inducible factor stabilizers.. Intrarosa faces competition primarily from Estrace® Cream (Estradiol vaginal cream, USP 0.01%), a vaginal cream for the treatment of VVA, Vagifem® (estradiol vaginal inserts), a suppository for the treatment of VVA, and Premarin Vaginal Cream®, a vaginal cream for the treatment of VVA as well as generic versions of these products and over the counter and. 36. Table of Contents. compounded remedies to treat VVA and dyspareunia. In addition, TherapeuticsMD, Inc. is developing TX-004HR, a vaginal estrogen softgel capsule for the treatment of dyspareunia, which has a PDUFA date in May 2018.. For the CBR Services, competition in the private cord blood and cord tissue banking business is already intense and is likely to increase as the number of competitors continues to grow given the relatively low barriers to entry. CBR competes primarily with ViaCord®, a subsidiary of PerkinElmer, Inc., Cryo-Cell International, Inc.® and StemCyte\231, which are all private blood banks. In addition to these three competitors, CBR competes with more than 20 other private blood banks in the U.S. as well as public blood banks.. We also expect to face competition for bremelanotide, if approved, including from Addyi®, an FDA-approved product for treatment of HSDD in pre-menopausal women as a daily-use oral drug. In addition, we are aware of several other drugs at various stages of development, most of which are being developed to be taken on a chronic, typically once-daily, basis. However, Emotional Brain BV, a Netherlands company, is developing two different oral fixed-dose, on-demand combination drugs, one a combination of sildenafil and testosterone and the other a combination of testosterone and buspirone hydrochloride, and has conducted Phase 2b studies. There may be other companies developing new drugs for FSD indications, some of which may be in clinical trials in the U.S. or elsewhere, or other companies which may sell their products off-label for indications other than FSD.. If we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors and existing and future alternative products or services, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. For further details on our competition, please see Item I, \"Business - Competition\".. We are completely dependent on third parties to manufacture our drug products and to provide materials required to support our CBR Services and any difficulties, disruptions, delays or unexpected costs, or the need to find alternative sources, could adversely affect our profitability and future business prospects.. We do not own or operate, and currently do not plan to own or operate, facilities for the manufacture of our commercially distributed products, product candidates or for any commercial products or product candidates we may acquire or in-license. We rely solely on third-party contract manufacturing organizations (\"CMOs\") and our licensors (who, in turn, may also rely on CMOs) to manufacture our products for our commercial and clinical use and for certain materials required to support our CBR Services. We or our licensors may not be able to enter into agreements with manufacturers or second source manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with cGMP regulations and other regulatory requirements on a timely basis and with terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Further, our ability to have our drug products manufactured in sufficient quantities and at acceptable costs to meet our commercial demand and clinical development needs is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our CMO's and our licensors' manufacturing facilities. Any difficulties, disruptions, or delays in the manufacturing process or supply chain could result in product defects, shipment delays, suspension of manufacturing of, sale of or clinical development for the product, recall or withdrawal of product previously shipped for commercial or clinical purposes, inventory write-offs or the inability to meet commercial or clinical demand in a timely and cost-effective manner.. For example, although we believe we have sufficient Makena IM product in inventory to meet demand, our primary drug product manufacturer has experienced issues regarding the delivery of products, including Makena, and we do not currently have a manufacturer for the production of Makena API. Given that our current inventory of Makena API is being used to manufacture multiple presentations of Makena (including the auto-injector and authorized generic product), any such disruptions or delays could result in an inability to meet commercial demand.. Additionally, we recently received approval for the Makena auto-injector, which will require us to contract for the manufacture of these devices at commercial scale. We have no experience manufacturing an auto-injector product and are currently in discussions with third-party manufacturers to secure commercial supply of certain components. We may encounter difficulties in the production of the Makena auto-injector, including problems involving scale-up, yields, quality control and assurance, product reliability, and manufacturing costs, any of which could result in significant delays in production or our inability to meet our demand for the auto-injector product. In addition, we do not currently have back-up suppliers for the Makena auto-injector manufacturers. Establishing an alternative supplier for the auto-injector device is a long and costly process and may not be successful. While we take precautions to mitigate potential interruptions, any failure at our manufacturers could result in a shortage of our Makena inventory.. Further, we are dependent upon Endoceutics to manufacture commercial supply of Intrarosa. Endoceutics has limited experience overseeing CMOs for products at commercial scale, which imposes significant and complex regulatory and compliance obligations. Endoceutics has and may continue to face challenges and difficulties with its CMO in satisfying such obligations, particularly since such CMO has limited experience manufacturing prescription drugs.. 37. Table of Contents. We also rely upon third-party contractors to assist in supporting the CBR Services, including to supply proprietary materials. Although we believe we have sufficient contingency plans in place, if current suppliers need to be changed or suffer disruption, especially our sole source providers, we could face operational delays and lost revenue, as well as the need to reconfigure machinery and/or systems, which could be costly.. In addition, bremelanotide is a synthetic peptide and while the production process involves well-established technology, there are few manufacturers capable of scaling up to commercial quantities under cGMP at acceptable costs. Further, we do not have commercial supply agreements to manufacture the drug substance and the bremelanotide auto-injector sub-assemblies and may not be able to enter into such agreements on acceptable terms, if at all, including the cost of goods.. We rely on third-party manufacturers for many aspects of our manufacturing process for our products and in some cases we rely on single source manufacturers without a qualified alternative manufacturer. Securing additional third-party contract manufacturers will require significant time for validating the necessary manufacturing processes, gaining regulatory approval, and implementing the appropriate oversight and may increase the risk of certain problems, including cost overruns, process reproducibility, stability issues, the inability to deliver required quantities of product that conform to specifications in a timely manner, or the inability to manufacture our products or the propriety materials for our services in accordance with cGMP. Furthermore, none of our current third-party drug product manufacturers or licensors manufacture for us exclusively and as such they may exhaust some or all of their resources meeting the demand of other parties or themselves.. Further, we, our licensors and our respective CMOs currently purchase certain raw and other materials used to manufacture our products from third-party suppliers. At present, we do not have long-term supply contracts with most of these third parties. These third-party suppliers may cease to produce the raw or other materials used in our products or as part of the administration of our products or otherwise fail to supply these materials to us, our licensors or our respective third-party manufacturers, or fail to supply sufficient quantities of these materials to us, our licensors or our respective third-party manufacturers in a timely manner for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following:. • Adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier;. • Unexpected demand for or shortage of raw or other materials;. • Regulatory requirements or action;. • An inability to provide timely scheduling and/or sufficient capacity;. • Manufacturing difficulties;. • Changes to the specifications of the materials such that they no longer meet our standards;. • Lack of sufficient quantities or profit on the production of materials to interest suppliers;. • Labor disputes or shortages;. • Disruption due to natural disasters; or. • Import or export problems.. In addition, we, our licensors or our respective third-party manufacturers sometimes obtain raw or other materials from one vendor only, even where multiple sources are available, to maintain quality control and enhance working relationships with suppliers, which could make us susceptible to price inflation by the sole supplier, thereby increasing our production costs. As a result of the high-quality standards imposed on our raw or other materials, we, our licensors or our respective third-party manufacturers may not be able to obtain such materials of the quality required to manufacture our products from an alternative source on commercially reasonable terms, or in a timely manner, if at all.. If, because of the factors discussed above, we are unable to have our products manufactured on a timely or sufficient basis, or if our supply chain for the CBR Services is disrupted, we may not be able to meet commercial demand or our clinical development needs for our products, may not be able to manufacture our products in a cost-effective manner or may be unable to adequately provide the CBR Services. As a result, we may lose sales, fail to generate projected revenues or suffer regulatory setbacks, any of which could have an adverse impact on our profitability and future business prospects.. The success of our products depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology.. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks and trade secrets in the conduct of our business. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be successful or timely in obtaining any patents for which we submit applications or the breadth of the claims obtained in our patents may not provide sufficient protection for our technology. The degree of protection afforded by patents for proprietary or licensed technologies or for future discoveries may not be adequate to preserve our ability to protect or commercially exploit those technologies or discoveries or to prevent others from doing so. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned or licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the U.S. or abroad. Such challenges may result in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held. 38. Table of Contents. unenforceable, which could limit our ability to stop or prevent us from stopping others from using or commercializing similar or identical technologies and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. In addition, our owned or licensed intellectual property might be subject to liens or encumbrances, which, as a result, may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from developing and commercializing products similar or identical to ours. Therefore, the patents issued or licensed to us may provide us with little or no competitive advantage.. We currently hold a number of U.S. patents for our products, including the following:. • One patent related to Feraheme that will expire in June 2023 and other patents related to Feraheme that expire in 2020.. • One patent related to the Makena auto-injector product that will expire in 2036.. We also rely on licensed patents for the protection of the products we commercialize. Under our current license agreements we have rights to a number of U.S. and foreign patents and applications, including the following:. • Patents licensed from Palatin Technologies, Inc. (\"Palatin\") related to bremelanotide that expire in 2020 and 2033 (one of which may be extended by up to five years under the Hatch-Waxman act).. • Patents licensed from Endoceutics, Inc. (\"Endoceutics\") related to Intrarosa that expire in 2028 and 2031 (one of which may be extended by up to five years under the Hatch-Waxman act).. • Patents licensed from Antares Pharma, Inc. related to the Makena auto-injector product that expire between 2019 and 2034.. • Patents licensed from Abeona Therapeutics, Inc. related to MuGard that expire in 2022.. These and any other patents owned by or licensed to us may be contested in litigation or reexamined or reviewed by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the \"USPTO\"). Even if we come to a mutually acceptable settlement arrangement with an adverse party, we or they may become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny or be subject to formal or informal requests or investigations, including by the FDA, the Department of Justice or the Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\"). If any present or future patents relied on for the development or commercialization of our products are narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, this could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. In addition, although we believe that the patents related to each of our products were rightfully issued and the respective portfolios give us sufficient freedom to operate, a third-party could assert that the development, manufacture or commercialization of any of our products infringes its patents or other proprietary rights, potentially resulting in harm to our business and financial results. Further, the intellectual property rights that we own or license might be subject to liens or other encumbrances. If we are required to defend against such claims or to protect our own or our licensed proprietary rights against others, it could result in substantial financial and business costs as well as the distraction of our management. An adverse ruling in any litigation or administrative proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, result in monetary damages, injunctive relief or otherwise harm our competitive position, including by limiting our marketing and selling activities, increasing the risk for generic competition, limiting our development and commercialization activities or requiring us to obtain licenses to use the relevant technology (which licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all).. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. We may become a party to intellectual property litigation or administrative proceedings, including interference or derivation, inter partes review, post grant review or reexamination proceedings before the USPTO. For example, the outcome of our ongoing litigation with Sandoz may impact our patent protection and potentially the competitive landscape for Feraheme. Even if we are successful, such litigation, or similar suits we may face in the future, will be expensive and will consume considerable time and other resources, which could materially and adversely impact our business, especially if we have to divert resources from our commercialization or business development efforts.. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate licensees, collaborators, contract manufacturers, employees and consultants. However, these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breaches, and our trade secrets and other confidential information might become known. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially. 39. Table of Contents. equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that an equivalent product or service will not be marketed in competition with our products, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights.. A generic competitor is seeking approval of a generic version of Feraheme and the market entry of such generic or any future generic competitors would limit Feraheme sales and have an adverse impact on our business and results of operation.. The Hatch-Waxman Act requires an applicant for a drug product that relies, in whole or in part, on the FDA's prior approval of a patented brand name drug, to notify us of its application, a Paragraph IV certification notice, if the applicant is seeking to market its product prior to the expiration of the patents with claims directed to the brand name drug. In February 2016, we received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter regarding an ANDA submitted to the FDA by Sandoz requesting approval to engage in commercial manufacture, use and sale of a generic version of Feraheme (ferumoxytol). In its Paragraph IV certification notice letter, Sandoz claims that our ferumoxytol patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed by Sandoz's manufacture, use, sale or offer for sale of the generic version. In March 2016, we initiated a patent infringement suit alleging that Sandoz' ANDA filing itself constituted an act of infringement and that if it is approved, the manufacture, use, offer for sale, sale or importation of Sandoz' ferumoxytol products would infringe our patents and the trial is currently scheduled for March 19, 2018. If such patents are not upheld or if the generic competitor is found not to infringe such patents, then we will likely face generic competition soon after such resolution. Further, Sandoz's application could encourage other generic entrants seeking a path to approval of a generic ferumoxytol to file an ANDA. Even if we are successful, such litigation is expensive and consumes considerable time and other resources, which could materially and adversely impact business.. If an ANDA filer, such as Sandoz, is ultimately successful in patent litigation against us, meets the requirements for a generic version of our branded product, such as Feraheme, to the satisfaction of the FDA under its ANDA, and is able to supply the product in significant commercial quantities, the generic company could introduce a generic version to the market. Such a market entry would likely limit our sales, which would have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. We depend, to a significant degree, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers for the use of our products, and a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement, especially in light of potential generic competition, could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products is dependent, in significant part, on the availability and level of reimbursement from third-party payers, including state and federal governmental payers such as Medicare and Medicaid, managed care organizations, private health insurers and other organizations. Reimbursement by third-party payers depends on a number of factors, including the third-party's determination that the product is competitively priced, safe and effective, appropriate for the specific patient, and cost-effective. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and continue to institute cost containment measures to control or influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, such as through the use of prior authorizations and step therapy. Certain specialty pharmaceuticals, pharmaceutical companies and pricing strategies have been the subject of increased scrutiny and criticism by politicians and the media, which could also increase pricing pressure throughout the industry, or lead to new legislation that may limit our pricing flexibility. If these third-party payers do not provide coverage and reimbursement for our products, or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, physicians and other healthcare providers may choose to prescribe alternative products, including generics, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues.. In addition, the possible introduction of generic competition to our products, including Intrarosa, Makena and Feraheme, may also affect the reimbursement policies of government authorities and third-party payers, such as private health insurers and HMOs. These organizations determine which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. Cost containment is a primary concern in the U.S. healthcare industry and government authorities and these third-party payers have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for branded medications when there is a generic available. If generic products become available in the market, insurance companies and government payers, such as state Medicaid agencies, which currently provide coverage for our products may make it more difficult for physicians to prescribe our products by charging higher copays, requiring prior authorizations, implementing step edits or not providing reimbursement at all. Even if reimbursement is available, the level of such reimbursement could be reduced or limited. Reimbursement levels or the lack of reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, our brand name products. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products, and/or our financial results from the sale of related products could be negatively and materially impacted.. Intrarosa is dependent on third-party reimbursement to reach its market potential. Payers frequently employ a tiered system in reimbursing end-users for pharmaceutical products, with tier designation affecting copay or deductible amounts. While some of the products that Intrarosa competes with receive reimbursement from governmental healthcare programs, Intrarosa is. 40. Table of Contents. generally classified as a Tier 3 drug, and therefore patients are unlikely to receive full reimbursement by third-party commercial payers and may not receive any reimbursement from governmental healthcare programs. As a result, patients may be subject to substantial copays or deductible requirements. Less than full reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payers may adversely affect the market acceptance of Intrarosa and put it at a competitive disadvantage to some of the competing products, including generic versions, which are often priced lower than brand name products. In addition, given the increasing number of generic competitors entering the VVA and dyspareunia market, payers may choose to implement step edits or prior authorizations prior to Intrarosa use, which could adversely impact our projected Intrarosa revenues and profitability. If Intrarosa does not receive adequate reimbursement coverage, the growth in Intrarosa sales may not meet our expectations or receive more favorable third-party reimbursement than its competitors, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. There is also significant uncertainty concerning the extent and scope of third-party reimbursement for products treating HSDD. Because Addyi® is the only FDA-approved therapy to treat HSDD, there is little precedent on which to base expectations as to third-party reimbursement opportunities. We believe reimbursement for HSDD will be similar to approved products treating erectile dysfunction and products treating women's health conditions, such as Intrarosa. If this is the case, we expect that commercial payers will likely cover bremelanotide as a non-preferred product, which normally requires a higher copay or deductible than preferred drugs. As a result, patients would be unlikely to receive full reimbursement by third-party commercial payers and may not receive any reimbursement from governmental healthcare programs. Therefore, patients may be subject to substantial copays or deductible requirements. Less than full reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payers may adversely affect the market acceptance of bremelanotide. If bremelanotide does not receive adequate reimbursement coverage, if approved, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Further, the market for HSDD may be particularly vulnerable to unfavorable economic conditions. Because we expect bremelanotide to have significant copay or deductible requirements and to be only partially reimbursed by third-party payers, demand for bremelanotide may be tied to discretionary spending levels of the targeted patient population. Thus, any downturn in the economy could result in weakened demand for bremelanotide.. In addition, the U.S. government continues to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare for patients. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the \"ACA\") includes certain cost containment measures including an increase to the minimum rebates for products covered by Medicaid programs, the extension of such rebates to drugs dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations and the expansion of the 340B Drug Pricing Program under the Public Health Services Act (the \"340B Program\"). In addition, federal budgetary concerns and the current presidential administration could result in the implementation of significant federal spending cuts or regulatory changes, including cuts in Medicare and other health-related spending in the near-term or changes to the ACA. A key focus of the current presidential administration and Republican majorities in both houses of the U.S. Congress is to \"repeal and replace\" all or portions of the ACA. Since its enactment, however, there have been modifications and challenges to numerous aspects of the ACA, including the repeal of the so-called \"individual mandate\" which imposed a tax on individuals who were eligible for, but did not enroll in, health insurance plans. In 2018, litigation, regulation, and legislation related to the ACA are likely to continue, with unpredictable and uncertain results. The full impact of the ACA, any law repealing. replacing, and/or modifying elements of it, and the political uncertainty surrounding any repeal or replacement legislation on our business remains unclear. The extent, timing and details of the changes are not currently known, but the federally funded healthcare landscape could face significant changes during the current presidential administration, including in the near-term, and could impact state and local healthcare programs, including Medicaid and Medicare, which could also have a negative impact on our future operating results. The magnitude of the impact of these laws and developments on our business is uncertain. Further, in recent years, some states have also passed legislation to control the prices of drugs as well as begun a move toward managed care to relieve some of their Medicaid cost burden. Given that approximately half of Makena patients are Medicaid beneficiaries, the impact of future legislative changes may have a significant and adverse impact on Makena sales. Further, while Medicare is the predominant payer for Feraheme, Medicare payment policy, in time, can also influence pricing and reimbursement in the non-Medicare markets, as private third-party payers and state Medicaid plans frequently adopt Medicare principles in setting reimbursement methodologies. These and any future changes in government regulation or private third-party payers' reimbursement policies may reduce the extent of reimbursement for our products and adversely affect our future operating results.. Further, government agencies that oversee reimbursements such as Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") may adopt policies that impact the reimbursement rate to our customers, which may in turn impact our net product revenues. For example, effective January 1, 2018, CMS adopted a policy to pay for separately payable, non-pass-through drugs and biologicals other than vaccines purchased through the 340B Program, with certain exceptions, at the average sales price (\"ASP\") minus 22.5% rather than ASP plus 6%. Drugs not purchased under the 340B Program will continue to be paid for at a rate of ASP plus 6%. The effect of this change on the overall 340B Program and our 340B eligible customers is unclear.. 41. Table of Contents. However, there will be significant increases in budget pressure for our customers, which may adversely impact premium priced agents, such as Feraheme and Makena.. We have limited experience with development stage products and cannot ensure that we will be successful in gaining approval of our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all, including bremelanotide, or that such approval, if obtained, will not contain restrictions that the FDA may impose on the use or distribution of such product candidates.. Our long-term success and revenue growth will depend upon our ability to continue to successfully develop new products. Drug development is inherently risky and the FDA imposes substantial requirements on the development of such candidates to become eligible for marketing approval. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may decide that our data is insufficient for approval. Clinical data is often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for their products. The FDA could also determine that our manufacturing processes are not properly designed, are not conducted in accordance with federal laws or otherwise not properly managed. If we do not obtain FDA approval for our product candidates, including bremelanotide, as discussed below, or if we experience significant delays or setbacks in obtaining approval, our ability to grow our business and leverage our product portfolio and the future prospects of our business could be materially adversely affected.. In January 2017, we acquired an exclusive license from Palatin to research, develop and commercialize bremelanotide in North America. During 2016, Palatin completed two Phase 3 clinical trials to treat HSDD in pre-menopausal women. The trials consisted of double-blind placebo-controlled, randomized parallel group studies comparing a subcutaneous dose of 1.75 mg bremelanotide versus placebo, in each case, delivered via an auto-injector. In both clinical trials, bremelanotide met the pre-specified co-primary efficacy endpoints of median improvement in desire and decrease in distress associated with low sexual desire as measured using validated patient-reported outcome instruments; however, the change in the number of satisfying sexual events, the key secondary endpoint, was not significantly different from placebo in either clinical trial. The most frequent adverse events were nausea, flushing and headache, which were generally mild-to-moderate in severity. Approximately 18% of patients discontinued participation in the bremelanotide arm due to adverse events in both studies. We currently expect to submit the bremelanotide NDA in the first quarter of 2018.. Despite the successful completion of the Phase 3 clinical trials, the approval of bremelanotide for commercial sale in the U.S. could be delayed or denied or we may be required to conduct additional studies for a number of reasons, including:. • The FDA may determine that bremelanotide does not demonstrate safety and efficacy in accordance with regulatory agency standards based on the results of the Phase 3 trials, including the co-primary and secondary endpoints and safety results;. • The FDA may determine that the magnitude of efficacy demonstrated in the bremelanotide studies does not amount to a clinically meaningful benefit to pre-menopausal women with HSDD and thus that the product cannot be approved despite statistically significant efficacy results;. • The FDA could analyze and/or interpret data from preclinical testing and clinical trials in different ways than we or Palatin interpret them;. • The auto-injector device that we plan to use to administer bremelanotide may not be adequate or may not be considered adequate by the FDA;. • We may be unable to establish, and obtain FDA approval for, a commercially viable manufacturing process for bremelanotide in a timely manner, or at all;. • Adverse medical events reported during the trials, including increases in blood pressure noted in prior clinical trials and a serious adverse event of hepatitis of unknown etiology;. • The failure of clinical investigational sites and the records kept at such sites, including the clinical trial data, to be in compliance with the FDA's current good clinical practices regulations (\"cGCP\"), including the failure to pass FDA inspections of clinical trial sites; and. • The FDA may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations.. 42. Table of Contents. Any failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval for bremelanotide could adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize such product. In addition, share prices have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to obtain FDA approval of a product or where the timing of FDA approval is delayed. If we are required to conduct additional studies, our share price could decline significantly.. Even if regulatory approval to market bremelanotide is granted by the FDA, the approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which the drug product may be marketed and additional post-approval requirements with which we and Palatin would need to comply in order to maintain bremelanotide's approval. Our business could be seriously harmed if we and/or Palatin do not complete any post-approval requirements and the FDA, as a result, requires us to change sections of the labeling.. We may not be able to further expand our portfolio by entering into additional business development transactions, such as in-licensing arrangements, acquisitions, or collaborations or, if such arrangements are entered into, we may not realize the anticipated benefits and they could disrupt our business, decrease our profitability, result in dilution to our stockholders or cause us to incur significant additional debt or expense.. As part of our business strategy to expand our portfolio, we are seeking to in-license or acquire additional pharmaceutical products or companies that leverage our corporate infrastructure and commercial expertise, such as our license agreements with Palatin and Endoceutics. There are limited opportunities available that align with our business strategy and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify or complete any additional transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, or that such transactions will be successfully integrated into our business.. Further, the valuation methods that we use for any acquired or licensed product or business require significant judgment and assumptions. Actual results and performance of the products or businesses that we may acquire, including anticipated synergies, economies of scale and other financial benefits, could differ significantly from our original assumptions, especially during the periods immediately following the closing of the transaction. For example, if the timing of FDA approval of bremelanotide, the market for bremelanotide or Intrarosa or the cost of goods for bremelanotide or Intrarosa is different from what we predicted in our model, the anticipated financial benefits of bremelanotide or Intrarosa may not be achieved. In addition, acquisitions may cause significant changes to our current organization and operations, may subject us to more rigid or constraining regulations or government oversight and may have negative tax and accounting consequences. These results could have a negative impact on our financial position or results of operations and result in significant charges in future periods.. In addition, proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing arrangements or acquisition agreements is a lengthy, complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for these arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. Further, any such strategic transactions by us could result in write-offs or impairments, which may be larger than anticipated or impact our financial statements more quickly than anticipated. Such transactions may also require us to incur additional and significant debt and contingent liabilities, each of which may contain restrictive covenants that could adversely impact or limit our ability to grow our business, enter into new agreements, and adversely affect our operating results.. In addition, our cash and investments may not be sufficient to finance any additional strategic transactions, and we may choose to issue shares of our common or preferred stock as consideration. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings, and such additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. For example, certain restrictions contained in the indenture governing our 2023 Senior Notes, described below, may limit our ability to pursue attractive business development opportunities. If we are unable to successfully obtain rights to suitable products or if any acquisition or in-license arrangement we make is not successful, our business, financial condition and prospects for growth could suffer. Further, any equity or equity-linked issuance, whether as consideration for a strategic transaction or in a financing transaction, could cause our stockholders to experience significant dilution.. Even if we do acquire or license additional products or businesses, the management of a license arrangement, collaboration, or other strategic arrangement and/or integration of an acquired asset or company may disrupt our ongoing business and require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing commercialization efforts and development of our existing enterprise. The integration of the operations of such acquired products or businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, safety and pharmacovigilance, medical, finance and business systems and processes. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time. For example, with the bremelanotide license, we added a development stage product to our portfolio and therefore needed to enhance our research and development expertise for product candidates.. 43. Table of Contents. Our expanded portfolio may further necessitate an expanded commercial team, which will take a considerable amount of time and effort to hire and train. Our future success will significantly depend upon our ability to manage our expanded enterprise, including multiple locations and various-staged products, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity.. If we cannot successfully integrate businesses or products we may acquire or in-license into our company, we may experience material negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, different skills and training are required for the promotion of various therapeutic products, especially as compared to a service business, such as CBR. Our revenues and profitability could suffer if we do not successfully expand our sales and commercial expertise into new areas, such as HSDD with respect to bremelanotide, or if our integrated sales force focusing on both the CBR Services and Makena is unable to successfully promote a portfolio of products and services, especially since they may have limited experience with promoting both therapeutics and a service business.. We have significantly expanded the size of our product portfolio and our overall organization and we may experience difficulties in managing this or future expansion.. In recent years, we more than tripled the size of our employee-base and we have considerably expanded our product portfolio by obtaining certain development and commercialization rights to bremelanotide and Intrarosa during 2017. Management, personnel, systems and facilities that we currently have in place may not be adequate to support this recent growth (especially given that we did not acquire any rights to any infrastructure or personnel under our arrangements with Palatin and Endoceutics), and we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified personnel in the future in this competitive environment to adequately support our expanded organization and diversified portfolio. To manage this and any future growth effectively, we will be required to continue to manage and expand the sales and marketing efforts for our existing products and services while continuing to identify and acquire attractive additions to our portfolio, develop our oversight and collaboration efforts for our licensed products, including development-staged products, enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, benefit plan maintenance, and establish and increase our access to commercial supplies of our products and call points for our services, which will be challenging and for which we might not be successful, especially given our newly-expanded organization. We will be required to expand and maintain our facilities and equipment and manage our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, licensees, contractors, collaborators, distributors and other third parties and we will have to manage multiple geographic locations across the U.S., which we have limited experience doing. In addition, management may have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from day-to-day activities and towards managing these growth activities, which could be disruptive to our business. Our future financial performance and our ability to execute on our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our recent and any future growth. If we experience difficulties or are unsuccessful in managing our expansion, our results of operations and business prospects will be negatively impacted.. Further, if we add products to our portfolio through licenses or acquisitions, we may face legal, regulatory, and compliance scrutiny or increased expenses as a result of the target's or licensor's pre-acquisition or pre-license business practices, including if such targets or licensors were alleged to have violated any privacy, data security, or other healthcare compliance laws, or failed to comply with all applicable FDA laws and requirements, regardless of whether such allegations have merit. Our recourse for such risks may be limited depending upon the remedies we are able to negotiate in the relevant transaction agreements. If any issues arise, we may not be entitled to sufficient, or any, indemnification or recourse from the licensor or the acquired company, which could have a materially adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. An adverse determination in any current or future lawsuits in which we are a defendant could have a material adverse effect on us.. The administration of our products to, or the use of our products by, humans may expose us to liability claims, whether or not our products are actually at fault for causing any harm or injury. As Feraheme is used over longer periods of time by a wider group of patients taking numerous other medicines or by patients with additional underlying health problems, the likelihood of adverse drug reactions or unintended side effects, including death, may increase. While these adverse events are rare, all IV irons, including Feraheme, can cause patients to experience serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic-type reactions, some of which have been life-threatening and/or fatal. Makena is a prescription hormone medicine (progestin) used to lower the risk of preterm birth in women who are pregnant and who have previously delivered preterm in the past. It is not known if Makena is safe and effective in women who have other risk factors for preterm birth and in one clinical study, certain complications or events associated with pregnancy occurred more often in women who received Makena, including miscarriage (pregnancy loss before 20 weeks of pregnancy), hospital admission for preterm labor, preeclampsia, gestational hypertension and gestational diabetes. In addition, other hormones administered during pregnancy have in the past been shown to cross the placenta and have negative effects on the offspring. Similarly, as Intrarosa and bremelanotide, if approved, are introduced to the. 44. Table of Contents. market, more serious adverse reactions than those reported during clinical trials could arise. We could also be subject to liability for the loss of or damage to cord blood or cord tissue units. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products in clinical trials and commercial use, coverage is expensive, and we may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Product liability claims and any resulting litigation, whether or not they have merit, may generate negative publicity and could decrease demand for our products, cause other parties to submit claims or demands, subject us to product recalls, harm our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs, and divert management's time and attention.. We may also be the target of claims asserting violations of securities and fraud and abuse laws and derivative actions or other litigation. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, we may not be successful in defending ourselves in a litigation and, as a result, our business could be materially harmed and, as with any product liability litigation, regardless of the outcome, these claims or suits may generate negative publicity, cause other parties to submit claims or demands, harm our reputation and divert management's time and attention. These lawsuits may also result in large judgments or settlements against us, any of which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and business if in excess of our insurance coverage. Though we maintain liability insurance, if any costs or expenses associated with litigation exceed our insurance coverage, we may be forced to bear some or all of these costs and expenses directly, which could be substantial.. We must work effectively and collaboratively with our licensors to develop, market and/or sell certain products in our portfolio.. We have limited experience commercializing licensed products, and the addition of Intrarosa and bremelanotide to our product portfolio means that our future revenues are more dependent upon our ability to work effectively and collaboratively with our licensors to develop, market and/or sell the licensed products in our portfolio, including to obtain or maintain regulatory approval. Our arrangements with licensors will be critical to successfully bringing our licensed products to market and successfully commercializing them. We rely on our licensors in various respects, including to undertake research and development programs and conduct clinical trials for our licensed products, manage or assist with the regulatory filings and approval process and maintenance and/or to assist with our commercialization efforts. We do not control our licensors, some of whom may be inexperienced, have a limited operating history, face financial and business hardships (including solvency issues), have limited operations or financial or other resources or have limited or no experience with commercialization activities; therefore, we cannot ensure that these third parties will adequately and timely perform all of their obligations to us. For example, we are dependent upon the contributions of Endoceutics, which is a small company organized outside of the U.S. with limited operations, experience and resources, including to exclusively provide us with all commercial supply and conduct certain clinical and commercialization activities. We cannot guarantee the satisfactory performance of any of our licensors and if any of our licensors breach or terminate their agreements with us, we may not be able to successfully commercialize the licensed product, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Further, even if contractual safeguards are in place in our licensing arrangements, our licensors may use their own or other technology to develop an alternative product and withdraw their support of the licensed product, or compete with the licensed product. Our licensing arrangements could also limit our activities, including our ability to compete with our licensors in certain geographic or therapeutic areas. For example, Endoceutics' assets, including the intellectual property licensed to us, are subject to a security interest held by a third-party lender, and therefore our rights and remedies under the license agreement may be impaired or inadequate. Disputes may arise between us and a licensor and may involve the ownership of technology developed under a license or other issues arising out of collaborative agreements. In addition, we must work collaboratively with our partners to conduct various activities and if we cannot do so effectively, disagreements could arise. Such disagreements could delay the related program or result in distraction or expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor.. Our license and purchase agreements contain complex provisions and impose various milestone payment, royalty, insurance, diligence, reporting and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with our obligations, our partners may have the right to terminate the license agreement, in which event we would not be able to continue developing or commercializing the licensed products, or we may incur additional costs or may be required to litigate any disputes. If our partners allege that we have breached our obligations under such arrangements, even if such allegations are without merit, defending such allegations, including complying with any audit, reporting or dispute resolution provisions of such agreement, or conducting any investigations, can be expensive and utilize considerable amounts of management's time and efforts. For example, under the terms of our agreement with Lumara Health, the former shareholders of Lumara Health through its shareholder representatives can exercise a right to review our books and records related to the calculation of revenue which trigger the milestone payments owed to Lumara Health. Termination of a license agreement or reduction or elimination of our licensed rights may result in our. 45. Table of Contents. having to negotiate new or reinstated licenses with less favorable terms, and, if we lose rights to the licensed products it could materially and adversely affect our business.. We rely on third parties in the conduct of our business, including our clinical trials and product distribution, and if they fail to fulfill their obligations, our commercialization and development plans may be adversely affected.. We rely on and intend to continue to rely on third parties, including licensors, clinical research organizations (\"CROs\"), contract research manufacturers, healthcare providers, third-party logistics providers, packaging, storage and labeling providers, wholesale distributors and certain other important vendors and consultants in the conduct of our business. For example, we or our partners contract with, and plan to continue to contract with, certain CROs to provide clinical trial services for the development of Intrarosa to treat HSDD, including site selection, enrollment, monitoring, data management and other services, in connection with the conduct of our clinical trials and the preparation and filing of our regulatory applications. In addition, CBR is dependent upon third-parties to perform tests which must be conducted in compliance with the FDA regulations that govern those functions.. Although we depend heavily on these parties, we do not control them and, therefore, we cannot ensure that these third parties will adequately and timely perform all of their obligations to us. If our third-party service providers cannot adequately fulfill their obligations to us or our licensors in a timely and satisfactory manner, if the quality and accuracy of our clinical trial data or our regulatory submissions are compromised due to poor quality or failure to adhere to our protocols or regulatory requirements, or if such third parties otherwise fail to adequately discharge their responsibilities or meet deadlines, our current and future development plans and regulatory submissions, or our commercialization efforts in current indications and with the CBR Services, may be delayed, terminated, limited or subject us to additional expense or regulatory action, which would adversely impact our ability to generate revenues.. Further, in many cases, we do not currently have back-up suppliers or service providers to perform these tasks. If any of these third parties experience significant difficulties in their respective processes, fail to maintain compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements, fail to meet expected deadlines or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us or our licensors, or encounter physical or natural damages at their facilities, our ability to deliver our products to meet commercial demand could be significantly impaired. The loss of any third-party provider, especially if compounded by a delay or inability to secure an alternate distribution source for end-users in a timely manner, could cause the distribution of our products to be delayed or interrupted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, we have limited experience independently commercializing multiple pharmaceutical products and services and collaborating with partners to commercialize multiple licensed products, including managing and maintaining a supply chain and distribution network for multiple products and the CBR Services, and we are placing substantial reliance on licensors and other third parties to perform this expanded network of supply chain and distribution services for us. For example, we rely on Endoceutics, and we may have to rely on the other parties with whom we may enter into future agreements, to perform or oversee certain functions, such as supply, research and development, or the regulatory process for the product we license from them, and any failure of such party to perform these functions for any reason, including ceasing doing business, could have a material effect on our ability to commercialize the product.. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees, and any failure to do so may be disruptive to our operations.. We are a pharmaceutical company focused on marketing commercial products and services and we plan to continue to expand our portfolio, including through the addition of commercial or development-stage products or services through acquisitions and in-licensing; thus, the range of skills of our executive officers needs to be broad and deep. If we are not able to hire and retain talent to drive commercialization and expansion of our portfolio, we will be unlikely to maintain or increase our profitability. Because of the specialized nature of our business, including a service-based business model and development-stage licensed product, our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified sales, technical operations, managerial, scientific, regulatory compliance and medical personnel of all levels. The loss of key personnel or our inability to hire and retain personnel who have such sales, technical operations, managerial, scientific, regulatory compliance and medical backgrounds could materially adversely affect our business (including research and development efforts).. If our cord blood and cord tissue processing and storage facility in Tucson, Arizona is damaged or destroyed, the CBR Services will be materially disrupted and impaired.. Currently, all of our customers' cord blood and cord tissue samples are stored in one facility in Tucson, Arizona. Our. 46. Table of Contents. business would suffer, and we would lose credibility with and the trust of physicians, healthcare providers and consumers, if there were any material disruption in our ability to maintain continued and fully operating storage systems, or any loss or deterioration of cord blood and cord tissue stored in our storage systems, including in the event of any damage or interruption from fire, earthquake, flood, break-ins, tornadoes and similar events.. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters. There have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state legislative initiatives implemented to reform the U.S. healthcare system in ways that could adversely impact our business and our ability to sell our products and services profitably.. We expect that the ACA, as currently enacted or as it may be amended in the future, the 21st Century Cures Act, and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to maintain or increase our product sales. These changes might impact existing government healthcare programs and may result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. Changes that may affect our business include, but are not limited to, those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, rules regarding prescription drug benefits under the health insurance exchanges, expansion of the 340B Program, and fraud and abuse enforcement. For example, beginning April 1, 2013, Medicare payments for all items and services under Part A and B, including drugs and biologics, and most payments to plans under Medicare Part D were reduced by 2% under the sequestration (i.e., automatic spending reductions) required by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the \"BCA\") as amended by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. The BCA requires sequestration for most federal programs, excluding Medicaid, Social Security, and certain other programs. The BCA caps the cuts to Medicare payments for items and services at 2% and subsequent legislation extended the 2% reduction, on average, to 2025.. We cannot predict the impact that newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. We expect that there will continue to be a number of U.S. federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls and limit the growth of healthcare costs. These efforts could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting the prices that can be charged for our products or services, or the amount of reimbursement rates and terms available from governmental agencies or third-party payers, limiting the profitability of our products and services, increasing our rebate liability or limiting the commercial opportunities for our products and services, including acceptance by healthcare payers.. Our partners, including our licensors, are subject to similar requirements and thus the attendant risks and uncertainties. If our partners, including our licensors, suffer material and adverse effects from such risks and uncertainties, our rights and benefits for our licensed products could be negatively impacted, which could have a material and adverse impact on our revenues.. If our products and services are marketed or distributed in a manner that violates federal or state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, marketing disclosure laws or other federal or state laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties.. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, our general operations, and the research, development, manufacture, sale and marketing of our products and services, are subject to extensive additional federal and state healthcare regulation, including the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the Federal False Claims Act (\"FCA\") (and their state analogues), as discussed above in Item 1 under the heading \"Government Regulation - Fraud and Abuse Regulation.\" If we or our partners, such as licensors, fail to comply with any federal and state laws or regulations governing our industry, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products and services, harm or prevent sales of our products and services, or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products and services, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products and services may be subject to scrutiny under these laws, and private individuals have been active in bringing lawsuits on behalf of the government under the FCA and similar regulations in other countries. In addition, incentives exist under applicable U.S. law that encourage employees and physicians to report violations of rules governing promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. These incentives could lead to so-called whistleblower lawsuits as part of which such persons seek to collect a portion of moneys allegedly overbilled to government agencies as a result of, for example, promotion of pharmaceutical products beyond labeled claims. For example, federal enforcement agencies recently have showed interest in pharmaceutical companies' product and patient assistance programs, including manufacturer reimbursement support services and relationships with specialty pharmacies. Some of these. 47. Table of Contents. investigations have resulted in government enforcement authorities intervening in related whistleblower lawsuits and obtaining significant civil and criminal settlements. Such lawsuits, whether with or without merit, are typically time-consuming and costly to defend. Such suits may also result in related shareholder lawsuits, which are also costly to defend.. Further, the FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA as reflected in the product's approved labeling. For drug products like Makena that are approved by the FDA under the FDA's accelerated approval regulations, unless otherwise informed by the FDA, the sponsor must submit promotional materials at least 30 days prior to the intended time of initial dissemination of the promotional materials, which delays and may negatively impact our commercial team's ability to implement changes to Makena's marketing materials, thereby negatively impacting revenues. Moreover, under the provisions of the FDA's \"Subpart H\" Accelerated Approval regulations, the FDA may also withdraw approval of Makena if, among other things, the promotional materials are false or misleading, or other evidence demonstrates that Makena is not shown to be safe or effective under its conditions of use.. In recent years, several states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing and promotional compliance programs or codes of conduct and/or to file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Several states have also adopted laws that prohibit certain marketing-related activities, including the provision of gifts, meals or other items to certain healthcare providers.. We have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices in the pharmaceutical industry; however, relevant compliance laws are broad in scope and there may not be regulations, guidance or court decisions that definitively interpret these laws in the context of particular industry practices. We cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our partners, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all federal and state regulations. If we, our partners, or our representatives fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us, including, but not limited to, restrictions on how we market and sell our products, significant fines, exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, litigation, or other sanctions. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such investigations or suits may also result in related shareholder lawsuits, which can also have an adverse effect on our business.. Our partners, including our licensors, are subject to similar requirements and obligations as well as the attendant risks and uncertainties. If our partners, including our licensors, suffer material and adverse effects from such risks and uncertainties, our rights and benefits for our licensed products could be negatively impacted, which could have a material and adverse impact on our revenues.. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under governmental pricing programs, we could be required to reimburse government programs for underpayments and could pay penalties, sanctions and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a condition of reimbursement by various federal and state health insurance programs, we are required to calculate and report certain pricing information to federal and state agencies. Please see our discussion above in Item 1 under the heading, \"Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement\" for more information regarding price reporting obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, Medicare, and the Department of Veterans Affairs Federal Supply Schedule (the \"FSS\") program.. The regulations governing the calculations, price reporting and payment obligations are complex and subject to interpretation by various government and regulatory agencies, as well as the courts. Reasonable assumptions have been made where there is lack of regulations or clear guidance and such assumption involve subjective decisions and estimates. We are required to report any revisions to our calculation, price reporting and payment obligations previously reported or paid. Such revisions could affect our liability to federal and state payers and also adversely impact our reported financial results of operations in the period of such restatement.. Uncertainty exists as new laws, regulations, judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, or regulations related to our calculations, price reporting or payments obligations increases the chances of a legal challenge, restatement or investigation. If we become subject to investigations, restatements, or other inquiries concerning our compliance with price reporting laws and regulations, we could be required to pay or be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that future healthcare reform measures could be adopted which could result in increased pressure on pricing and reimbursement of our products and thus have an adverse impact on our financial position or business operations.. 48. Table of Contents. Further, state Medicaid programs may be slow to invoice pharmaceutical companies for calculated rebates resulting in a significant lag between the time a sale is recorded and the time the rebate is paid. This results in us having to carry a significant liability on our consolidated balance sheets for the estimate of rebate claims expected for Medicaid patients. For example, almost half of Makena sales are reimbursed through state Medicaid programs and are subject to the statutory Medicaid rebate, and in some cases, supplemental rebates offered by us. If actual claims are higher than current estimates, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected.. In addition to retroactive rebates and the potential for 340B Program refunds, if we are found to have knowingly submitted any false price information related to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to CMS, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties. Such failure could also be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which we participate in the Medicaid program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, federal payments may not be available under government programs, including Medicaid or Medicare Part B, for our covered outpatient drugs.. Additionally, if we overcharge the government in connection with the FSS program or Tricare Retail Pharmacy Program, whether due to a misstated Federal Ceiling Price or otherwise, we are required to refund the difference to the government. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against us under the FCA and other laws and regulations. Unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Our partners, including our licensors, are subject to similar requirements and thus the attendant risks and uncertainties. If our partners, including our licensors, suffer material and adverse effects from such risks and uncertainties, our rights and benefits for our licensed products could be negatively impacted, which could have a material and adverse impact on our revenues.. We are subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight of our products and services, and any failure by us to maintain compliance with applicable regulations may result in several adverse consequences including the suspension of the manufacturing, marketing and sale of our respective products and services, the incurrence of significant additional expense and other limitations on our ability to commercialize our respective products and services.. We are subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and review, including periodic audits pertaining to the development, manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, distribution, storage, marketing, promotion, record keeping and export of our respective products and services, including those regarding cord blood and cord tissue collection, processing and storage services, the application to and implications for CBR's operations of certain laws, regulations and industry guidelines relating to healthcare or stem cell preservation companies, new and evolving regulatory restrictions on cord blood and cord tissue banking. Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements or the later discovery of previously unknown problems with the manufacture, distributions and storage of our products or services, or our third-party contract manufacturing facilities or processes by which we manufacture our products or supply our services may result in restrictions on our ability to manufacture, market, distribute or sell our products or services, including potential withdrawal of our products from the market. Any such restrictions could result in a decrease in sales, damage to our reputation or the initiation of lawsuits against us and/or our third-party contract manufacturers. We may also be subject to additional sanctions, including but not limited to the following:. • Warning letters, public warnings and untitled letters;. • Court-ordered seizures or injunctions;. • Civil or criminal penalties, or criminal prosecutions;. • Variation, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for our products or services;. • Changes to the package insert of our products, such as additional warnings regarding potential side effects or potential limitations on the current dosage or administration;. • Requirements to communicate with physicians and other customers about concerns related to actual or potential safety, efficacy, or other issues involving our products and services;. • Implementation of risk mitigation programs and post-approval obligations;. 49. Table of Contents. • Restrictions on our continued manufacturing, marketing, distribution or sale of our products, or the ability to continue to market our services;. • Temporary or permanent closing of the facilities of our third-party contract manufacturers;. • Interruption or suspension of clinical trials;. • For human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products (\"HCT/Ps\"), including umbilical cord blood stem cells and cord tissue, recalls, destruction orders, or cease manufacturing orders; and. • Refusal by regulators to consider or approve applications for additional indications.. Any of the above sanctions could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and profitability or the value of our brand, and cause us to incur significant additional expenses.. In addition, if our products face any safety or efficacy issues, including drug interaction problems, under the FDC Act, the FDA has broad authority to force us to take any number of actions, including, but not limited to the following:. • Requiring us to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess known risks or new signals of serious risks, or to evaluate unexpected serious risks;. • Mandating changes to a product's label;. • Requiring us to implement a REMS where necessary to assure safe use of the drug; or. • Removing an already approved product from the market.. Further, our partners, including our licensors, are subject to similar requirements and obligations as well as the attendant risks and uncertainties. If our partners, including our licensors, suffer material and adverse effects from such risks and uncertainties, our rights and benefits for our licensed products could be negatively impacted, which could have a material and adverse impact on our revenues.. Regulators could determine that our clinical trials and/or our manufacturing processes, and/or our storage or those of our third parties, were not properly designed or are not properly operated, which could cause significant costs or setbacks for our commercialization activities.. We are obligated to conduct, and are in the process of conducting, certain post-approval clinical trials and we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, including if we pursue approval of additional indications, new formulations or methods of administration for our drug products, seek commercialization in other jurisdictions, or in support of our current indications. Similarly, our licensors are conducting certain clinical trials to gain approval in various indications for drug product candidates. The FDA could determine that our clinical trials, or those of our licensors, and/or our or their manufacturing processes were not properly designed, did not include enough patients or appropriate administration, were not conducted in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, or were otherwise not properly managed. In addition, according to cGCP we and/or our licensors are responsible for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA may conduct inspections of clinical investigator sites which are involved in clinical development programs for our proprietary or licensed products to ensure their compliance with cGCP regulations. If the FDA determines that we, our licensors, our respective CROs or our respective study sites fail to comply with applicable cGCP regulations, the FDA may deem the clinical data generated in such clinical trials to be unreliable and may disqualify certain data generated from those sites or require us and/or our licensors to perform additional clinical trials. Clinical trials and manufacturing processes are subject to similar risks and uncertainties outside of the U.S. Any such deficiency in the design, implementation or oversight of clinical development programs or post-approval clinical studies could cause us to incur significant additional costs, experience delays or prevent us from commercializing our approved products in their current indications, or obtaining marketing approval for additional indications or for product candidates, including bremelanotide for the treatment of HSDD in pre-menopausal women or Intrarosa for the treatment of HSDD in post-menopausal women.. In addition, the Current Good Tissue Practices rule governs the processing and distribution of cord blood stem cells and cord tissue and covers all stages of HCT/P processing, from procurement to distribution of final allografts. CBR is registered. 50. Table of Contents. with the FDA as an HCT/P establishment that screens, packages, processes, stores, labels and distributes umbilical cord blood stem cells and cord tissue by virtue of the services it provides to expectant parents as a private cord blood and cord tissue bank. The FDA periodically inspects such registered establishments to determine compliance with HCT/P requirements. Violations of applicable regulations noted by the FDA during facility inspections could adversely affect the continued operation and marketing of the CBR Services.. Further, our third-party contract manufacturing facilities and those of our licensors are subject to cGMP regulations enforced by the FDA and equivalent foreign regulations and regulatory agencies through periodic inspections to confirm such compliance. Contract manufacturers must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that these manufacturing facilities meet applicable regulatory requirements. Failure to maintain ongoing compliance with cGMP or similar foreign regulations and other applicable manufacturing requirements of various U.S. or foreign regulatory agencies could result in, among other things, the issuance of warning letters, fines, the withdrawal or recall of our products from the marketplace, failure to approve product candidates for commercialization, total or partial suspension of product production, the loss of inventory, suspension of the review of our or our licensors' current or future New Drug Applications or equivalent foreign filings, enforcement actions, injunctions or criminal prosecution and suspension of manufacturing authorizations. For example, in early 2017, one of our manufacturers received a warning letter from the FDA, which it has not yet completely resolved. A government-mandated recall or a voluntary recall could divert managerial and financial resources, could be difficult and costly to correct, could result in the suspension of sales of our products and could have a severe adverse impact on our profitability and the future prospects of our business. If any regulatory agency inspects any of these manufacturing facilities and determines that they are not in compliance with cGMP or similar regulations or our contract manufacturers otherwise determine that they are not in compliance with these regulations, as applicable, such contract manufacturers could experience an inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of product to meet demand or incur unanticipated compliance expenditures.. We and our licensors have also established certain testing and release specifications with the FDA. This release testing must be performed in order to allow products to be used for commercial sale. If a product does not meet these release specifications or if the release testing is variable, we may not be able to supply product to meet our projected demand. We monitor annual batches of our products for ongoing stability after it has been released for commercial sale. If a particular batch of product exhibits variations in its stability or begins to generate test results that demonstrate an adverse trend against our specifications, we may need to conduct an investigation into the test results, quarantine the product to prevent further use, destroy existing inventory no longer acceptable for commercial sale, or recall the batch or batches. If we or our licensors are unable to develop, validate, transfer or gain regulatory approval for the new release test, our ability to supply product will be adversely affected. Such setbacks could have an adverse impact on our revenues, our profitability and the future prospects of our business.. The FDA has required post-approval studies to verify and describe the clinical benefit of Makena, and the FDA may limit further marketing of the product based on the results of these post-approval studies, failure to complete these trials in a timely manner or evidence of safety risks or lack of efficacy.. Makena was approved by the FDA in February 2011 under Subpart H. As a condition of approval under Subpart H, the FDA required that Makena's sponsor perform certain adequate and well-controlled post-approval clinical studies to verify and describe the clinical benefits of Makena as well as fulfill certain other post-approval commitments. Given the patient population (i.e., women pregnant and at an increased high risk for recurrent preterm delivery based on their pregnancy history) and the informed risk of receiving a placebo instead of the active approved drug, the pool of prospective subjects for such clinical trials in the U.S. is small, and we have therefore sought enrollment on a global scale. These factors make the enrollment process slow, difficult, time-consuming and costly. If the required post-approval studies fail to verify the clinical benefits of the drug, if a sufficient number of participants cannot be enrolled, or if we fail to perform the required post-approval studies with due diligence, the FDA has the authority to withdraw approval of the drug following a hearing conducted under the FDA's regulations, which would have a materially adverse impact on our business. We cannot be certain of the results of the confirmatory clinical studies or what action the FDA may take if the results of those studies are not as expected based on clinical data that FDA has already reviewed.. The regulatory landscape for cord blood and cord tissue banking is complex and evolving, and we could therefore become subject to a more complicated and rigorous regulatory scheme, which could expose us to more severe FDA enforcement action or other regulatory implications, which could materially harm our business.. Human tissues intended for transplantation, including cord blood stem cells and cord tissue, are subject to comprehensive regulations that address activities associated with HCT/Ps. One set of regulations requires that companies that engage in the recovery, processing, storage, labeling, packaging, or distribution of any HCT/Ps, or the screening or testing of a cell or tissue. 51. Table of Contents. donor, register with the FDA. This set of regulations also includes the criteria that must be met in order for the HCT/P to be eligible for distribution solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act (the \"PHSA\"), and the regulations in 21 CFR Part 1271, rather than under the drug or device provisions of the FDC Act or the biological product licensing provisions of the PHSA. Another set of regulations provides criteria that must be met for donors to be eligible to donate HCT/Ps and is referred to as the \"Donor Eligibility\" rule. A third set of provisions governs the processing and distribution of the tissues and is often referred to as the \"Current Good Tissue Practices\" rule. The Current Good Tissue Practices rule covers all stages of HCT/P processing, from procurement to distribution of final allografts. Together these regulations are designed to ensure that sound, high quality practices are followed to reduce the risk of tissue contamination and of communicable disease transmission to recipients.. CBR is registered with the FDA as an HCT/P establishment that screens, packages, processes, stores, labels and distributes umbilical cord blood stem cell and cord tissue by virtue of the services it provides to expectant parents as a private cord blood and cord tissue bank. The FDA periodically inspects such registered establishments to determine compliance with HCT/P requirements. Violations of applicable regulations noted by the FDA during facility inspections could adversely affect the continued operation and marketing of the CBR Services.. In addition, the FDA could conclude that CBR cord blood stem cells and cord tissue do not meet the criteria for distribution solely under Section 361 of the PHSA, and therefore, CBR's banked HCT/Ps would require the submission and approval or clearance of a marketing application in order for us to continue to process and distribute any cord blood stem cells or cord tissue. Such an action by the FDA could cause negative publicity, decreased or discontinued sales of CBR's banking services for cord blood stem cells and cord tissue, and significant expense in obtaining required marketing approval or clearance, if we are able to obtain such approval or clearance at all, and in conforming our marketing approach to the FDA's expectations.. Some states impose additional regulation and oversight of cord blood and cord tissue banks and of clinical laboratories operating within their borders and impose regulatory compliance obligations on out-of-state laboratories providing services to their residents, and many states in which we and our business partners operate have licensing requirements that must be complied with.. Further, in the future, the FDA or state governments may promulgate new regulatory requirements and standards for HCT/Ps. We may not be able to comply with any such future regulatory requirements or product standards. If the FDA or any state regulators determine that we have failed to comply with applicable regulatory requirements or any future regulatory requirements or standards, it can impose or initiate a variety of enforcement actions, including but not limited to, public warning or untitled letters, written recall or destruction orders, written cease manufacturing orders, court-ordered seizures, injunctions, consent decrees, civil penalties, or criminal prosecutions. Regulatory or other developments could result in unexpected increases in expenses, which will be difficult to pass on to current CBR customers, some of whom have agreed to a set price for a period of future storage services, and potential CBR customers who may be unwilling to pay for the CBR Services if prices were to increase significantly. We can make no assurances that our business partners, or members of our healthcare provider network, will be able to obtain or maintain any necessary licenses required to conduct our business under the current or future regulatory regime, which could in turn negatively impact our business and ability to comply with regulations. If any of these events were to occur, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Our failure to comply with data protection laws and regulations could lead to government enforcement actions (which could include civil or criminal penalties), private litigation, and/or adverse publicity and could negatively affect our operating results and business.. We are subject to data protection laws and regulations (i.e., laws and regulations that address privacy and data security). The legislative and regulatory landscape for data protection continues to evolve, and in recent years there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data security issues. In the U.S., numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including state data breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of health-related and other personal information. Failure to comply with data protection laws and regulations could result in government enforcement actions (which could include civil or criminal penalties), private litigation, and/or adverse publicity and could negatively affect our operating results and business. For example, based on events that occurred prior to our acquisition of CBR, CBR is required to comply with an FTC Order through April 29, 2033. The FTC Order requires CBR, among other things, to implement and maintain a comprehensive information security program and conduct a biennial assessment of its information security program. CBR is also required not to make any misrepresentations, expressly or by implication, regarding its privacy practices or its information security program. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, these obligations are substantial and may impede our performance and our ability to develop the CBR Services, or lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for noncompliance.. 52. Table of Contents. In addition, in the course of our business, we may obtain health information from third parties (e.g., healthcare providers who prescribe our products) that are subject to privacy and security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (\"HIPAA\"). Although we are not directly subject to HIPAA (other than potentially with respect to providing certain employee benefits) we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information maintained by a HIPAA-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA.. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or security breaches could adversely affect our business.. We are increasingly dependent upon information technology systems, infrastructure, and data to operate our business. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store, and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including but not limited to intellectual property, proprietary business information, and personal information). It is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. We also have outsourced elements of our operations to third parties, and as a result we manage a number of third-party vendors who may or could have access to our confidential information. The size and complexity of our information technology systems, and those of third-party vendors with whom we contract, and the large amounts of confidential information stored on those systems, make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, third-party vendors, and/or business partners, or from cyber-attacks by malicious third parties. Cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication, and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. Cyber-attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware, denial-of-service attacks, social engineering, and other means to affect service reliability and threaten the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information. Significant disruptions of our information technology systems or security breaches could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of, or the prevention of access to, confidential information (including but not limited to trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary business information, and personal information), and could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us. For example, any such event that leads to unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of personal information, including personal information regarding our patients or employees, could harm our reputation, require us to comply with federal and/or state breach notification laws and foreign law equivalents, and otherwise subject us to liability under laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of personal information. Security breaches and other inappropriate access can be difficult to detect, and any delay in identifying them may lead to increased harm of the type described above. While we have implemented security measures to protect our information technology systems and infrastructure, there can be no assurance that such measures will prevent service interruptions or security breaches that could adversely affect our business.. Risks Related to our Financial Condition and Results. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our outstanding debt could adversely affect our operations and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business or acquire additional products for our portfolio.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $816.0 million of total debt outstanding, including $475.0 million aggregate principal amount of our senior notes due September 1, 2023 bearing interest at 7.875% annually (the \"2023 Senior Notes\"), issued in August 2015, $21.4 million aggregate principal amount of our convertible notes due February 15, 2019 bearing interest at 2.5% annually (the \"2019 Convertible Notes\"), issued in February 2014, and $320.0 million aggregate principal amount of our convertible notes due June 1, 2022 bearing interest at 3.25% annually (the \"2022 Convertible Notes\" and, together with the 2019 Convertible Notes, the \"Convertible Notes\"), issued in May 2017. Our high level of indebtedness, or restrictions in an indenture governing such indebtedness, could adversely affect our business in the following ways, among other things:. • Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations under the terms of such indebtedness, as well as our contractual and commercial commitments, and could increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations;. • Prevent us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase the remaining 2023 Senior Notes or Convertible Notes tendered to us if there is a change of control, which would constitute a default under the indenture governing the 2023 Senior Notes;. • Require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal, which would reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. • Limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments or general corporate purposes, which may limit the ability to execute our business strategy;. 53. Table of Contents. • Heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or in the general economy, and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions;. • Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that may have proportionately less debt;. • Limit management's discretion in operating our business or pursuing additional portfolio expansion opportunities; and. • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate or the general economy.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, or to pay interest on our indebtedness, including the 2023 Senior Notes, the 2022 Convertible Notes and the 2019 Convertible Notes (\"our current Note obligations\"), depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and support our growth strategies. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to repay our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations, including under our current Note obligations. In addition, if for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness, which could allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable, and could further trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between our applicable debt agreements. Under these circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds to satisfy our debt obligations.. Also, upon the occurrence of specific types of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of the outstanding 2023 Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2023 Senior Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the date of repurchase. In addition, in connection with certain asset sales, we may be required to offer to repurchase a portion of the 2023 Senior Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest up to, but not including, the date of repurchase. We may not have sufficient funds available to repurchase all of the 2023 Senior Notes tendered pursuant to any such offer and any other debt that would become payable upon a change of control or in connection with such an asset sale offer. Our failure to repurchase the 2023 Senior Notes upon the occurrence of specific types of change of control events would be a default under the indenture governing the 2023 Senior Notes, which would in turn trigger a default under the indenture governing the applicable Convertible Notes and may trigger a default under any future credit facility and the terms of our other indebtedness outstanding at such time.. Further, holders of the Convertible Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (which includes certain change of control transactions, stockholder-approved liquidations and dissolutions and certain stock exchange delisting events) at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the notes being converted. We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of the Convertible Notes surrendered therefore or at the time Convertible Notes are being converted. Our failure to repurchase Convertible Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Convertible Notes would constitute an event of default.. We may need additional capital to achieve our business objectives and to service our debt obligations, including our 2023 Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes and contingent payments that may become due under our strategic transaction arrangements, which could cause significant dilution to our stockholders.. We may require additional funds or need to establish additional alternative strategic arrangements to execute a business development transaction. We may at any time seek funding through additional arrangements with collaborators through public or private equity or debt financings, subject to any restrictive covenants in the documents governing our current or future debt obligations. We may not be able to obtain financing or to secure alternative strategic arrangements on acceptable terms or within an acceptable timeframe, if at all, which would limit our ability to execute on our strategic plan. Moreover, the condition of the credit markets can be unpredictable and we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity with respect to our investments, which would put further strain on our cash resources.. 54. Table of Contents. Our current level of cash on hand may limit our ability to take advantage of attractive business development opportunities and execute on our strategic plan. In addition, our cash on hand may not be sufficient to service the principal and interest payments under our current Note obligations or any cash milestone payments to our partners upon the achievement of sales or regulatory milestones. Our ability to make these required payments could be adversely affected if we do not achieve expected revenue and cash flow forecasts, or if we are unable to find other sources of cash in the future. We may also suffer reputational harm and be viewed as an undesirable acquiror or business development partner if we are unable to make the required payments under our strategic transaction arrangements. In addition, if equity or debt investors perceive that our debt levels are too high relative to our profit, our stock price could be negatively affected and/or our ability to raise new equity or debt capital could be limited.. We have in the past, and may in the future, enter into term loans and credit facilities with various banking institutions. Our ability and the terms on which we can borrow will be subject to the state of our operations and the debt market, which is unpredictable and beyond the scope of our control. We may not be able to borrow required amounts on favorable terms, including favorable interest rates, or at all. Further, borrowings under such facilities may bear interest at variable rates exposing us to interest rate risk.. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on many other factors, including, but not limited to the commercial success of our products and efforts we make in connection with commercialization and development, our ability to realize synergies and opportunities in connection with our acquisitions and portfolio expansion, the outcome of and costs associated with any material litigation or patent challenges to which we are or may become a party, the timing and magnitude of costs associated with qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and alternative suppliers, and our ability to raise additional capital on terms and within a timeframe acceptable to us, if necessary.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating future taxable income and may be limited, including as a result of future transactions involving our common stock.. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period, which is generally three years. An ownership change could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for taxable years including or following such \"ownership change\" by allowing us to utilize only a portion of the net operating losses and tax credits that would otherwise be available but for such ownership change. Limitations imposed on the ability to use net operating losses and tax credits to offset future taxable income or the failure to generate sufficient taxable income could require us to pay more U.S. federal income taxes than we have estimated and could cause such net operating losses and tax credits to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such net operating losses and tax credits and potentially adversely affecting our financial position, including our after-tax net income. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes.. In April 2017, we entered into a shareholder rights plan, which expires on April 6, 2018, to help preserve our tax assets by deterring certain stockholders from increasing their percentage ownership in our stock; however, such a plan is merely a deterrent that does not actually prevent Section 382 ownership limitations and there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change. Even minor accumulations by certain of our stockholders could result in triggering an ownership change under Section 382. If such an ownership change were to occur, we expect that our net operating losses could become limited; however, the amount of the limitation would depend on a number of factors including our market value at the time of the ownership change. For a discussion of shareholder rights plan, see the discussion in Note N, \"Stockholders' Equity,\" to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. In addition, we have recorded deferred tax assets based on our assessment that we will be able to realize the benefits of our net operating losses and other favorable tax attributes. Realization of deferred tax assets involve significant judgments and estimates, which are subject to change and ultimately depends on generating sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character during the appropriate periods. Changes in circumstances may affect the likelihood of such realization, which in turn may trigger a write-down of our deferred tax assets, the amount of which would depend on a number of factors. A write-down would reduce our reported net income, which may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we are potentially subject to ongoing and periodic tax examinations and audits in various jurisdictions, including with respect to the amount of our net operating losses and any limitation thereon. An adjustment to such net operating loss carryforwards, including an adjustment from a taxing authority, could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely impacting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 55. Table of Contents. In December 2017, comprehensive federal tax reform was enacted that significantly changes the taxation of business entities. The changes include, but are not limited to, a permanent reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate, limitations on the deductibility of business interest expense, accelerated expensing of capital expenditures, and disallowance of certain deductions that had been previously allowed. The legislation is highly complex and unclear in certain respects and will require interpretations and regulations by the Internal Revenue Service and state tax authorities. Additionally, the legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. Thus, the impact of certain aspects of the legislation is currently unclear and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. If we identify a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected.. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors.. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective, or we discover areas that need improvement in the future, or we experience high turnover of our personnel in our financial reporting functions, these shortcomings could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected.. If we cannot conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Failure to comply with reporting requirements could subject us to sanctions and/or investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ or other regulatory authorities.. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our consolidated financial statements and/or our projected guidance prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals.. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates our critical and other significant estimates and assumptions, including among others those associated with revenue recognition related to product sales and services revenue; product sales allowances and accruals; allowance for doubtful accounts, marketable securities; inventory; acquisition date fair value and subsequent fair value estimates used to assess impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill, in-process research and development and other intangible assets; contingent consideration; debt obligations; certain accrued liabilities, including clinical trial accruals; income taxes, including valuation allowances, and equity-based compensation expense. We base our estimates on market data, our observance of trends in our industry, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. If actual results differ from these estimates, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results and the performance of our stock.. Further, in January 2018, we issued financial guidance, including expected 2018 total revenue and profitability metrics, which is likewise based on estimates and the judgment of management. If, for any reason, we are unable to realize our projected 2018 revenue or profitability, we may not realize our publicly announced financial guidance. If we fail to realize, or if we change or update any element of, our publicly disclosed financial guidance or other expectations about our business, our stock price could decline in value.. As part of our revenue recognition policy, our estimates of product returns, rebates and chargebacks, accounts receivable, fees and other discounts require subjective and complex judgments due to the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Any significant differences between our actual results and our estimates could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. 56. Table of Contents. In addition, to determine the required quantities of our products and the materials that support the CBR Services and their related manufacturing schedules, we also need to make significant judgments and estimates based on inventory levels, current market trends, anticipated sales, forecasts and other factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amount of product need. For example, the level of our access to wholesaler and distributor inventory levels and sales data, which varies based on the wholesaler, distributor, clinic or hospital, affects our ability to accurately estimate certain reserves included in our financial statements. Any difference between our estimates and the actual amount of product or services demand could result in unmet demand or excess inventory, each of which would adversely impact our financial results and results of operations.. We have significant goodwill and other intangible assets. Consequently, potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles may significantly impact our profitability.. Goodwill and other intangibles represent a significant portion of our assets. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, goodwill and other net intangibles comprised approximately 73% and 70%, respectively, of our total assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are subject to an impairment analysis, which involves judgment and assumptions, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Additionally, goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are subject to an impairment test at least annually. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we recorded intangible asset impairment charges of $319.2 million and $16.0 million, respectively. The procedures, judgments and assumptions used in our goodwill and intangible assets impairment testing, and the results of our testing, are discussed in Item 7 of this report \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" under the captions \"Critical Accounting Policies\" and \"Results of Operations\". Events giving rise to impairment of goodwill or intangible assets are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical industry and often cannot be predicted. As a result of the significance of goodwill and other intangible assets, our results of operations and financial position in a future period could be negatively impacted should additional impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets occur.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly, including as a result of analysts' activities.. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. Our stock price has ranged between $11.93 and $25.20 in the fifty-two week period through February 23, 2018. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sectors, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Various factors and events, including the factors and events described in these Risk Factors, many of which are beyond our control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Our stock price could also be subject to fluctuations as a result of general market conditions, shareholder activism and attempts to disrupt our strategy by activist investors, sales of large blocks of our common stock, the impact of our stock repurchase program or the dilutive effect of our Convertible Notes, other equity or equity-linked financings, or alternative strategic arrangements.. In addition, the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these or any other analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. In addition, our future operating results are subject to substantial uncertainty, and our stock price could decline significantly if we fail to meet or exceed analysts' forecasts and expectations. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, lower their price target or issue commentary or observations about us or our stock that are perceived by the market as negative, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. In addition, if these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could also cause our stock price to decline.. Our operating results will likely fluctuate, including as a result of wholesaler, distributor and customer buying patterns, as such you should not rely on the results of any single quarter to predict how we will perform over time.. Our future operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including the factors described in these Risk Factors, many of which we cannot control, as well as the timing and magnitude of:. • Product revenues, including the decline in Makena sales and the extent to which sales of the Makena auto-injector and the Makena authorized generic are able to offset the expected decrease in sales of Makena;. • If we have overestimated the size of the market and market potential for any of our products or services;. 57. Table of Contents. • The loss of a key customer or group purchasing organizations (\"GPOs\");. • Costs and liabilities incurred in connection with business development activities or business development transactions into which we may enter;. • Costs associated with the commercialization of our products and services;. • Milestone payments we may be required to pay pursuant to contractual obligations, including the Lumara Health Agreement, the Palatin License Agreement and the Endoceutics License Agreement;. • Costs associated with the manufacture of our products and collection, processing and storage services, including costs of raw and other materials and costs associated with maintaining commercial inventory and qualifying additional manufacturing capacities and alternative suppliers;. • Costs associated with our obligations under the Palatin License Agreement and Endoceutics License Agreement;. • Any changes to the mix of our business;. • Costs associated with manufacturing batch failures or inventory write-offs due to out-of-specification release testing or ongoing stability testing that results in a batch no longer meeting specifications;. • Changes in accounting estimates related to reserves on revenue, returns, contingent consideration, impairment of long-lived or intangible assets or goodwill or other accruals or changes in the timing and availability of government or customer discounts, rebates and incentives;. • The implementation of new or revised accounting or tax rules or policies; and. • The recognition of deferred tax assets during periods in which we generate taxable income and our ability to preserve our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets, particularly in light of the recent tax reform.. Our results of operations, including, in particular, product revenues, may also vary from period to period due to the buying patterns of our wholesalers, distributors, pharmacies, clinics or hospitals and specialty pharmacies. Further, our contracts with GPOs often require certain performance from the members of the GPOs on an individual account level or group level such as growth over prior periods or certain market share attainment goals in order to qualify for discounts off the list price of our products, and a GPO may be able to influence the demand for our products from its members in a particular quarter through communications they make to their members. In the event wholesalers, distributors, pharmacies, clinics or hospitals with whom we do business determine to limit their purchases of our products, our product revenues could be adversely affected. Also, in the event wholesalers, distributors, pharmacies, clinics or hospitals purchase increased quantities of our products to take advantage of volume discounts or similar benefits, our quarterly results will fluctuate as re-orders become less frequent, and our overall net pricing may decrease as a result of such discounts and similar benefits. In addition, these contracts are often cancellable at any time by our customers, often without notice, and are non-exclusive agreements within the Feraheme or Makena markets. While these contracts are intended to support the use of our products, our competitors could offer better pricing, incentives, higher rebates or exclusive relationships.. Our contracting strategy can also have an impact on the timing of certain purchases causing product revenues to vary from quarter to quarter. For example, in advance of an anticipated or rumored price increase, including following the publication of our quarterly ASP, which affects the rate at which Feraheme is reimbursed, or a reduction in expected rebates or discounts for one of our products, customers may order our products in larger than normal quantities, which could cause sales to be lower in subsequent quarters than they would have been otherwise. Further, any changes in purchasing patterns or inventory levels, changes to our contracting strategy, increases in product returns, delays in purchasing products or delays in payment for products by one of our distributors or GPOs could also have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations.. As a result of these and other factors, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Results from one quarter should not be used as an indication of future performance.. 58. Table of Contents. Our shareholder rights plan, certain provisions in our charter and by-laws, certain provisions of our Convertible Notes, certain contractual relationships and certain Delaware law provisions could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove the current members of our Board.. We have a shareholder rights plan, the provisions of which are intended to protect our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Although the plan was put in place to protect these assets, its provisions could function to deter a hostile takeover by making any proposed hostile acquisition of us more expensive and less desirable to a potential acquirer by enabling our stockholders (other than the potential hostile acquiror) to purchase significant amounts of additional shares of our common stock at dilutive prices. The rights issued pursuant to our shareholder rights plan become exercisable generally upon the earlier of 10 days after a person or group acquires 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock or 10 business days after the announcement by a person or group of an intention to acquire 4.99% of our outstanding common stock via tender offer or similar transaction. The shareholder rights plan could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current prices.. In addition, certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or takeover attempt of our company by a third-party as well as substantially impede the ability of our stockholders to benefit from a change of control or effect a change in management and our Board. These provisions include:. • The ability of our Board to increase or decrease the size of the Board without stockholder approval;. • Advance notice requirements for the nomination of candidates for election to our Board and for proposals to be brought before our annual meeting of stockholders;. • The authority of our Board to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval;. • Non-cumulative voting for directors; and. • Limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders.. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (\"Section 203\"), which prevents us from engaging in any business combination with any \"interested stockholder,\" which is defined generally as a person that acquires 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed in Section 203. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by, or beneficial to, our stockholders.. In addition to the above factors, an acquisition of our company could be made more difficult by employment agreements we have in place with our executive officers, as well as a company-wide change of control policy, which provide for severance benefits as well as the full acceleration of vesting of any outstanding options or restricted stock units in the event of a change of control and subsequent termination of employment. Further, our Third Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan generally permits our Board to provide for the acceleration of vesting of options granted under that plan in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control.. Furthermore, holders of the Convertible Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof and the conversion rate for the Convertible Notes may be increased as described in the indenture, in each case, upon the occurrence of certain change of control transactions, which could have the effect of preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by, or beneficial to, our stockholders, or may result in the acquisition of us being on terms less favorable to our stockholders than it would otherwise be."
