[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The regulatory climate remains challenging to the Company's interests both domestically and internationally - Various agencies within the U.S. (both federal and state) and foreign governments continue to exercise increased scrutiny in permitting continued uses (or the expansion of such uses) of older chemistries, including many of the Company's products and, in some cases, have initiated or entertained challenges to these uses. The challenge of the regulatory climate is even more pronounced in certain other geographical regions where the Company faces resistance to the continued use of certain of its products. For example, the EU employs a hazard-based analysis when considering whether product registrations can be maintained; under this approach, EU regulatory authorities typically do not weigh benefit against risk in their assessments and routinely cancel products for which a safer alternative is available, notwithstanding the benefit of the cancelled product.  There is no guarantee that this regulatory climate will change in the near term or that the Company will be able to maintain or expand the uses of many of its products in the face of these regulatory challenges.. USEPA has proposed further limitations on the continued registration of organophosphates - On September 25, 2015 the USEPA published in the Federal Register draft human health risk assessments for four of the Company's organophosphate (\"OP\") compounds (marketed under the names Bidrin®, Counter®, Folex® and Mocap®) in which it recommends the application of a 10X safety factor under the FQPA (Food Quality Protection Act) in light of the alleged possibility of neurodevelopmental harm to women and children based on epidemiological data. Since that time, in the face of objection from industry, the agency has applied this safety factor to all registered OPs, as they have come up for review or renewal. The Company, like many in our industry, believes that the basis for applying this safety factor is not based upon sound science and that the limited studies upon which the agency is relying (for which raw data is not available even to the agency) do not establish a causal link between the perceived harm and the use of its products. Accordingly, the Company intends to take all action necessary to defend its registrations. We have been joined in this effort by other companies that are similarly concerned about the potential impact of USEPA's action. Nevertheless, there is no guarantee that the Company's actions will alter the course that USEPA has proposed and, if the agency's position becomes final, some uses of the company's OP products could be limited or cancelled. Such action could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's financial performance in future reporting periods.. Use of the Company's products is subject to continuing challenges from activist groups - Use of agrochemical products, including the Company's products is regularly challenged by activist groups in many jurisdictions under a multitude of federal, state and foreign statutes, including FIFRA, the Food Quality Protection Act, Endangered Species Act (\"ESA\") and the Clean Water Act, to name a few. These challenges typically take the form of lawsuits or administrative proceedings against the USEPA and/or other federal, state or foreign agencies, the filing of amicus briefs in pending actions, the introduction of legislation that is inimical to the Company's interests, and/or adverse comments made in response to public comment invited by regulatory agencies in the course of registration, re-registration or label expansion. The most prominent of these actions include a line of cases under which environmental groups have sought to suspend, cancel or otherwise restrict the use of pesticides that have been approved by USEPA on the ground that that agency failed to confer with the National Marine Fishery Service and/or the Fish and Wildlife Service under the ESA with respect to biological opinions relating to the use of such products.  While industry has been active in defending registrations and proposing administrative and legislative approaches to address serious resource issues at the affected agencies, these cases continue to be brought.  It is possible that one or more of these challenges could succeed, resulting in a material adverse effect upon one or more of the Company's products.. The distribution and sale of the Company's products are subject to prior governmental approvals and thereafter ongoing governmental regulation - The Company's products are subject to laws administered by federal, state and foreign governments, including regulations requiring registration, approval and labeling of its products. The labeling requirements restrict the use of, and type of, application for our products. More stringent restrictions could make our products less available, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Substantially all of the Company's products are subject to the USEPA (and/or similar agencies in the various territories or jurisdictions in which we do business) registration and re-registration requirements, and are registered in accordance with FIFRA or similar laws. Such registration requirements are based, among other things, on data demonstrating that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when used according to approved label directions. All states, where any of the Company's products are used, also require registration before products, such as the Company sells, can be marketed or used in that state. Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific data requirements be performed on the Company's products. The Company, on its behalf and also in joint efforts with other registrants, has and is currently furnishing certain required data relative to its products. There can be no assurance, however, that the USEPA or similar agencies will not request that certain tests or studies be repeated or that more stringent legislation or requirements will not be imposed in the future. The Company can provide no assurance that any testing approvals or registrations will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that its resources will be adequate to meet the costs of regulatory compliance.. 7. AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION. AND SUBSIDIARIES. (Dollars in thousands, except per share data). The manufacturing of the Company's products is subject to governmental regulations - The Company currently owns and operates three manufacturing facilities which are located in Los Angeles, California; Axis, Alabama; and Marsing, Idaho and owns and has manufacturing services provided in a fourth facility in Hannibal, Missouri (the \"Facilities\"). The Facilities operate under the laws and regulations imposed by state and local authorities. The manufacturing of key ingredients for certain of the Company's products occurs at the Facilities. An inability to renew or maintain a license or permit, or a significant increase in the fees for such licenses or permits, could impede the Company's manufacture of one or more of its products and/or increase the cost of production; this, in turn, would materially and adversely affect the Company's ability to provide customers with its products in a timely and affordable manner.. The Company may be subject to environmental liabilities - While the Company expends substantial funds to minimize the risk of discharge of materials into the environment and to comply with governmental regulations relating to protection of the environment and its workforce, federal and state authorities may nevertheless seek fines and penalties for any violation of the various laws and governmental regulations. In addition, while the Company continually adapts its manufacturing processes to the environmental control standards of regulatory authorities, it cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous or regulated materials. Further, these various governmental agencies could, among other things, impose potential civil and criminal liability arising under RCRA for the Company's importation (transportation, handling, and storage) of depleted Thimet containers (see, \"Legal Proceedings\" below).  In short, the Company may be held liable for significant damages or fines relating to any environmental contamination, injury, or compliance violation which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition, statements of operations and cash flows.. Newly acquired businesses may not generate forecasted results.  While the Company conducts due diligence on acquisitions and employs rigorous investment criteria before making acquisitions, there is no guarantee that a business or product line acquired by the Company will generate results that meet or exceed results that were forecasted by the Company in evaluating the acquisition. There are many factors that could affect the performance of a newly acquired business or product line. While the Company uses conservative assumptions in valuing a business prior to concluding an acquisition, actual results generated post-closing could vary widely from the Company's forecast and, as such, could have a material effect upon the Company's overall financial performance.. The Company's investment in foreign businesses may pose additional risks.  With the expansion of its footprint internationally and, in particular, with the business acquired in Central America in 2017, the Company now carries on business at a material level in some jurisdictions that have a history of political instability, including civil unrest, government takings without reimbursement, and the imposition of penalties without due process of law. While such instability may not be present at the current time, there is no guarantee that conditions will not change in one or more jurisdictions quickly and without notice, nor is there any guarantee that the Company would be able to recoup its investment in such territories in light of such changes. Adverse changes of this nature could have a material effect upon the Company's overall financial performance.. The Company's investment in technology may not generate forecasted returns.  The Company has had a history of investing in technological innovation primarily focused on product delivery systems as one of its core strategies. We have focused on technology in closed delivery systems, fumigant application and precision application, to name a few.  These investments are based upon the premise that new technology will allow for safer handling of the Company's products, appeal to regulatory agencies and the market we serve, gain commercial acceptance and command a return that is sufficiently in excess of the investment. However, there is no guarantee that a new technology will be successfully commercialized, generate a material return or maintain market appeal for a substantial period of time. Further, many types of development costs must be expensed in the period in which they are incurred. This, in turn, tends to put downward pressure on period profitability. There can be no assurance that these expenses will be recovered through successful commercialization of a new technology.. The Company's business may be adversely affected by cyclical and seasonal effects - Demand for the Company's products tends to be seasonal. Seasonal usage follows varying agricultural seasonal patterns, weather conditions and weather related pressure from pests. Weather patterns can have an impact on the Company's operations. For example, the end user of its products may, because of weather patterns, delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting season, which may result in a reduction of the use of some products and therefore may, at some point, reduce the Company's revenues and profitability. In light of the possibility of adverse seasonal effects, there can be no assurance that the Company will maintain sales performance at historical levels in any particular region.. The Company is dependent upon certain sole source suppliers for certain of its raw materials and active ingredients -  There are a limited number of suppliers of certain important raw materials used by the Company in many of its products. Certain of these raw materials are available solely from single sources either domestically or overseas. Starting January 1, 2017, the Chinese. 8. AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION. AND SUBSIDIARIES. (Dollars in thousands, except per share data). government has placed significant restrictions on chemical manufacturing in the People's Republic of China.  This, in turn, has led to closure of multiple manufacturing plants and scarcity of supply for certain products that are imported by the Company.  In conjunction with the purchase and/or licensing of certain product lines, the Company has entered into multi-year supply arrangements under which such counterparties are the sole source of either active ingredients and/or formulated end-use product and, in some cases, the manufacturer has entered the market as a competitor. The Company is actively pursuing new supply agreements to mitigate the risk of product supply from the People's Republic of China, by either approving new suppliers outside of China, or conversely by pursuing new Chinese suppliers who have a stronger in situ backward integration position. There is no guarantee that any of our suppliers will be willing or able to supply these products to the Company reliably, continuously and at the levels anticipated by the Company or required by the market. If these sources prove to be unreliable and the Company is not able to supplant or otherwise second source these suppliers, it is possible that the Company will not realize its projected sales which, in turn, could adversely affect the Company's consolidated financial statements.. To the extent that capacity utilization is not fully realized at its manufacturing facilities, the Company may experience lower profitability - While the Company endeavors continuously to maximize utilization of it manufacturing facilities, our success in these endeavors is dependent upon many factors, including fluctuating market conditions, product life cycles, weather conditions, availability of raw materials, equipment failures, and regulatory constraints, among other things. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maximize the utilization of capacity at its manufacturing facilities.. The Company's continued success depends, in part, upon a limited number of key employees - Within certain functions, the Company relies heavily on a small number of key employees to manage ongoing operations and to perform strategic planning. In some cases, there are no internal candidates who are qualified to succeed these key personnel in the short term. In the event that the Company were to lose one or more key employees, there is no guarantee that Company could replace them with people having comparable skills. Further, the loss of key personnel could adversely affect the operation of our business.. The Company faces competition in certain markets from new technologies and demand for organically produced food - The Company faces competition from larger companies that market new chemistries, genetically modified (\"GMO\") seeds and other similar technologies (e.g., RNA interference) in certain of the crop protection sectors in which the Company competes, particularly that of corn. In fact, many growers that have chosen to use GMO seeds have reduced their use of the types of pesticides sold by the Company. At the same time, the demand for organically-produced food, which, generally speaking, is made without the use of synthetic chemicals (which constitute most of the Company's products) continues to increase.  There is no guarantee that the Company will maintain its market share or pricing levels in sectors that are subject to competition from companies that market new technologies.  Further, it is possible that increased demand for organic crops may, over time, reduce the demand for the Company's products.. The Company faces competition from generic competitors that source product from countries having lower cost structures - The Company continues to face competition from competitors around the globe that may enter the market through either offers to pay data compensation, or similar means in foreign jurisdictions, and then subsequently source material from countries having lower cost structures (typically India and China). These competitors typically tend to operate at thinner gross margins and, with low costs of goods, tend to drive pricing and profitability of subject product lines downward. There is no guarantee that the Company will maintain market share and pricing over generic competitors or that such competitors will not offer generic versions of the Company's products in the future.. The Company's key customers typically carry competing product lines and may be influenced by the Company's larger competitors - A significant portion of the Company's products are sold to national distributors in the United States, which also carry product lines of competitors that are much larger than the Company. Typically, revenues from the sales of these competing product lines and related program incentives constitute a greater part of our distributors' income than do revenues from sales and program incentives arising from the Company's product lines. With the recent consolidation among domestic distribution companies, these considerations have become more pronounced. In light of these facts, there is no assurance that such customers will continue to market our products aggressively or successfully or that the Company will be able to influence such customers to continue to purchase our products instead of those of our competitors.. Industry consolidation may threaten the Company's position in various markets - The global agricultural chemical industry continues to undergo significant consolidation. Many of the Company's competitors have grown or are expected to grow through mergers and acquisitions. As a result, these competitors will tend to be in position to realize greater economies of scale, offer more diverse portfolios and thereby exert greater influence throughout the distribution channels. Consequently, the Company may find it more difficult to compete in various markets. While such merger activity may generate acquisition opportunities for the Company,. 9. AMERICAN VANGUARD CORPORATION. AND SUBSIDIARIES. (Dollars in thousands, except per share data). there is no guarantee that the Company will benefit from such opportunities. Further, there is a risk that the Company's future performance may be hindered by the growth of its competitors through consolidation.. The Company is dependent on a limited number of customers, which makes it vulnerable to the continued relationship with and financial health of those customers - In 2017 and 2016, three customers accounted for 33% and 34%, respectively, of the Company's sales. The Company's future prospects may depend on the continued business of such customers and on our continued status as a qualified supplier to such customers. The Company cannot guarantee that these key customers will continue to buy products from us at current levels. The loss of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.. The carrying value of certain assets on the Company's consolidated balance sheets may be subject to impairment depending upon market trends and other factors - The Company regularly reviews the carrying value of certain assets, including long-lived assets, inventory, fixed assets and intangibles. Depending upon the class of assets in question, the Company takes into account various factors including, among others, sales, trends, market conditions, cash flows, profit margins and the like. Based upon this analysis, where circumstances warrant the Company may leave such carrying values unchanged or adjust them as appropriate. There is no guarantee that these carrying values can be maintained indefinitely, and it is possible that one or more such assets could be subject to impairment which, in turn, could have an adverse impact upon the Company's consolidated financial statements.. The Company's computing systems are subject to cyber security risks  -  In the course of its operations the Company relies on its computing systems, including access to the internet, the use of third party applications and the storage and transmission of data through such systems. While the Company has implemented security measures to protect these systems, there is no guarantee that a third party may penetrate these defenses and either compromise, corrupt or shut down these systems. Further, in the event of such incursion it is possible that confidential business information and private personal data could be confiscated. Such an event could adversely affect both the Company's ability to operate and its overall financial performance. Reduced financial performance may limit the Company's ability to borrow under its credit facility - The Company has historically grown net sales through both expansion of current product lines, the acquisition of product lines from third parties and, during 2017, the acquisition of both domestic and international distributors with strong niche market positions. In order to finance such acquisitions, the Company has drawn upon its senior credit facility. However, the Company's borrowing capacity under the senior credit facility depends, in part, upon its satisfaction of a negative covenant that sets a maximum ratio of borrowed debt to earnings (as measured over the trailing 12 month period). There is no guarantee that the Company will continue to generate earnings necessary to ensure that it has sufficient borrowing capacity to support future acquisitions or that, when necessary, the lender group will amend the senior credit facility to provide for such borrowing capacity. Further, despite the Company's long-standing relationship with its lenders, in light of the uncertainties in global financial markets there is no guarantee that the Company's lenders will be either willing or able to continue lending to the Company at such rates and in such amounts as may be necessary to meet the Company's working capital needs.. The Company's growth has been fueled in part by acquisition - Over the past few decades, the Company's growth has been driven by acquisition and licensing of both established and developmental products from third parties. There is no guarantee that acquisition targets or licensing opportunities meeting the Company's investment criteria will remain available or will be affordable. If such opportunities do not present themselves, then the Company may be unable to record consistent growth in future years."
