[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our inability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner could adversely impact our profitability. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify and respond to fashion trends in a timely manner. The specialty retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in the economy and customer preferences, dictated by fashion and season. These fluctuations especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers because merchandise typically must be ordered well in advance of the selling season. While we endeavor to test many merchandise items before ordering large quantities, we remain susceptible to changing fashion trends and fluctuations in customer demands.. In addition, the cyclical nature of the retail business requires that we carry a significant amount of inventory, especially during our peak selling seasons. We enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of our private label apparel well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer demand, pricing shifts and the timing and selection of merchandise purchases. Our failure to enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise in a timely manner could, among other things, lead to a shortage of inventory and lower sales. Changes in fashion trends, if unsuccessfully identified, forecasted or responded to by us, could, among other matters, lead to lower sales, excess inventories and higher markdowns, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our market share may be adversely impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise that are competitive with ours. The sale of apparel, accessories, intimates and personal care products is a highly competitive business with numerous participants, including individual and chain specialty apparel retailers, local, regional, national and international department stores, discount stores and online businesses. The substantial sales growth in the digital channel within the last several years has encouraged the entry of many new competitors and an increase in competition from established companies.  We face a variety of competitive challenges, including:. •  Anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands or preferences better than our competitors;. •  Maintaining favorable brand recognition and effective marketing of our products to consumers in several demographic markets;. •  Sourcing merchandise efficiently;. •  Developing innovative, high-quality merchandise in styles that appeal to our consumers and in ways that favorably distinguish us from our competitors; and. •  Countering the aggressive pricing and promotional activities of many of our competitors.. 9. In light of the competitive challenges we face, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. Additionally, increases in competition could reduce our sales, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The effect of economic pressures and other business factors on consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. The success of our operations depends to a significant extent on a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as income taxes, payroll taxes, employment, consumer debt, interest rates, increases in energy costs and consumer confidence. Additionally, changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending habits may negatively impact the specialty retail market. There can be no assurance that consumer spending will not be further negatively affected by general, local or international economic conditions and changing consumer preferences, thereby adversely impacting our results of operations and financial condition.. Seasonality may cause sales to fluctuate and negatively impact our results of operations. Historically, our operations have been seasonal, with a large portion of total net revenue and operating income occurring in the third and fourth fiscal quarters, reflecting increased demand during the back-to-school and year-end holiday selling seasons, respectively. As a result of this seasonality, factors negatively affecting us during the third and fourth fiscal quarters of any year, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year. Our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate based upon such factors as the timing of certain holiday seasons, the number and timing of new store openings, the acceptability of seasonal merchandise offerings, the timing and level of markdowns, store closings and remodels, competitive factors, weather and general economic and political conditions.. Our efforts to execute on our key business priorities could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. Our success depends on our ability to execute on our key priorities, which are centered on driving our brands forward and delivering an exceptional customer experience across channels, including:. •  Delivering innovation, quality and outstanding value to our customers;. •  Leveraging American Eagle's leading position in jeans and bottoms;. •  Accelerating Aerie's growth as a leading intimates brand in the marketplace;. •  Leveraging our omni-channel capabilities and customer information to gain market share and provide industry leading customer experiences; and. •  Strengthening our financial discipline including inventory and expense management, delivering profitable revenue growth and focusing on high return investments, among other areas.. Achieving these key business priorities depends on us executing our strategies successfully, and the initiatives that we implement in connection with these goals may not resonate with our customers. It may take longer than anticipated to generate the expected benefits, and there can be no guarantee that these key priorities will result in improved operating results. Failure to successfully implement our key business priorities could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability.. Our inability to react to raw material, labor and energy cost increases could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Increases in our costs, such as raw materials, labor and energy, may reduce our overall profitability.  Specifically, fluctuations in the costs associated with the manufacture of merchandise that we purchase from our suppliers impact our cost of sales. We have strategies in place to help mitigate these costs; however, our overall profitability depends on the success of those strategies.  Additionally, increases in other costs, including labor, energy and additional duties and taxes on imports, could further reduce our profitability if not mitigated.. 10. Our inability to achieve planned store performance, gain market share in the face of declining shopping center traffic or attract customers to our stores could adversely impact our profitability and our results of operations. The results achieved by our stores may not be indicative of long-term performance or the potential performance of stores in other locations. Part of our future growth is dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. We cannot be sure as to when or whether such desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. The failure of our stores to achieve acceptable results could result in store asset impairment charges, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Additionally, our real estate strategy may not be successful, and store locations may fail to produce desired results, which could impact our competitive position and profitability. Customer shopping patterns have been evolving from brick-and-mortar locations to, increasingly, digital channels.  We have Company-owned stores in shopping centers that have experienced declining traffic trends while our digital channels continue to grow.  Our ability to grow revenue and acquire new customers is contingent on our ability to drive traffic to both store locations and digital channels so that we are accessible to our customers when and where they want to shop.. We locate our brick and mortar stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls or street locations. Our stores benefit from the ability of the malls' \"anchor\" tenants, which generally are large department stores and other area attractions, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. We cannot control the increasing impact of digital channels on shopping center traffic, the loss of an anchor or other significant tenant in a shopping mall in which we have a store, the development of new shopping malls in the U.S. or around the world, the availability or cost of appropriate locations, competition with other retailers for prominent locations, or the success of individual shopping malls. All of these factors may impact our ability to meet our productivity targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, some malls and shopping centers that were in prominent locations when we opened our stores may cease to be viewed as prominent. If this trend continues or if the popularity of mall shopping continues to decline generally among our customers, our sales may decline, which would impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We have significant lease obligations, and are subject to risks associated with leasing substantial amounts of space, including future increases in occupancy costs and the need to generate significant cash flow to meet our lease obligations. Operating lease obligations, which consist primarily of future minimum lease commitments related to store operating leases, represent a significant contractual commitment. All of our stores are leased and generally have initial terms of 10 years. In the future, we may not be able to negotiate favorable lease terms for the most desired store locations. Our inability to do so may cause our occupancy costs to be higher in future years or may force us to close stores in desirable locations.. Certain leases have early termination options, which can be exercised under certain specific conditions. In addition to future minimum lease payments, some of our store leases provide for additional rental payments based on a percentage of net sales, or \"percentage rent,\" if sales at the respective stores exceed specified levels, as well as the payment of tenant occupancy costs, including maintenance costs, common area charges, real estate taxes and certain other expenses. Many of our lease agreements have defined escalating rent provisions over the initial term and any extensions.. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses, due to continued decreases in mall traffic, the highly competitive and promotional retail environment, or other factors, we may not be able to service our lease expenses, which could materially harm our business. Furthermore, the significant cash flow required to satisfy our obligations under the leases increases our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry, and competitive conditions, and could limit our ability to fund working capital, incur indebtedness, and make capital expenditures or other investments in our business.. 11. Our inability to grow our e-commerce channel and leverage omni-channel capabilities could adversely impact our business. We sell merchandise through our digital channels, both domestically and internationally. We have invested in building technologies and digital capabilities in three key areas: mobile technology, digital marketing and desktop experience. We have made significant capital investments in these areas but there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully maintain or expand our e-commerce business.. As omni-channel retailing continues to evolve, our customers are increasingly more likely to shop across multiple channels that work in tandem to meet their needs. Our inability to respond to these changes and successfully maintain and expand our omni-channel business may have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our efforts to expand internationally expose us to risks inherent in operating in new countries. We are actively pursuing additional international expansion initiatives, which include Company-owned stores and stores operated by third-parties through licensing arrangements in select international markets. The effect of international expansion arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally.  Furthermore, although we provide store operation training, literature and support, to the extent that a licensee does not operate its stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand and customer experience standards, our business results and the value of our brand could be negatively impacted.. A failure to properly implement our expansion initiatives, or the adverse impact of political or economic risks in these international markets, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  We have limited prior experience operating internationally, where we face established competitors.  In many of these locations, the real estate, labor and employment, transportation and logistics and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the locations where we have more experience. Consumer demand and behavior, as well as tastes and purchasing trends, may differ substantially, and as a result, sales of our products may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. Any differences that we encounter as we expand internationally may divert financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, we are increasingly exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our revenue, profits, assets, and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar for which we have taken risk mitigating actions, when appropriate.  We may also use instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks in the future; however, these measures may not succeed in offsetting all of the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements on our business and results of operations.. As we pursue our international expansion initiatives, we are subject to certain laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate.  Violations of these laws could subject us to sanctions or other penalties that could have an adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition.. Our international merchandise sourcing strategy subjects us to risks that could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our merchandise is manufactured by suppliers worldwide. Although we purchase a significant portion of our merchandise through a single international buying agent, we do not maintain any exclusive commitments to purchase from any one vendor.  Because we have a global supply chain, any event causing the disruption of imports, including the insolvency of a significant supplier or a major labor slow-down, strike or dispute including any such actions involving ports, trans loaders, consolidators or shippers, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Given the volatility and risk in the current markets, our reliance on external vendors leaves us subject to certain risks should one or more of these external vendors become insolvent. Although we monitor the financial stability of our key vendors and plan for contingencies, the financial failure of a key vendor could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. We have a Vendor Code that provides guidelines for our vendors regarding working conditions, employment practices and compliance with local laws. A copy of the Vendor Code is posted on our website, www.ae.com, and is also included in our vendor manual in English and multiple other languages. We have a factory compliance program to audit for compliance with the Vendor Code. However, there can be no assurance that all violations can be eliminated in our supply chain.  Publicity regarding violation of our Vendor Code or other social responsibility standards by any of our vendor factories could adversely affect our reputation, sales and financial performance.. 12. There is a risk of terrorist activity on a global basis. Such activity might take the form of a physical act that impedes the flow of imported goods or the insertion of a harmful or injurious agent to an imported shipment. We have instituted policies and procedures designed to reduce the chance or impact of such actions. Examples include, but are not limited to, factory audits and self-assessments, including audit protocols on all critical security issues; the review of security procedures of our other international trading partners, including forwarders, consolidators, shippers and brokers; and the cancellation of agreements with entities who fail to meet our security requirements. In addition, U.S. Customs and Border Protection has recognized us as a validated participant of the CTPAT program, a voluntary program in which an importer agrees to work with customs to strengthen overall supply chain security. However, there can be no assurance that terrorist activity can be prevented entirely and we cannot predict the likelihood of any such activities or the extent of their adverse impact on our operations.. Our inability to implement and sustain adequate information technology systems could adversely impact our profitability. We regularly evaluate our information technology systems and are currently implementing modifications and/or upgrades to the information technology systems that support our business. Modifications include replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of inherent risks associated with operating, replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information and system disruptions.  We believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, staging implementation and in-sourcing certain processes, as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement and redundancy technologies; however, there is a risk that information technology system disruptions and inaccurate system information, if not anticipated and/or promptly and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Furthermore, while we have disaster recovery and business continuity plans in place, if our information technology systems are damaged, breached or cease to properly function for any reason, including the poor performance of, failure of, or cyber-attack on third-party service providers, catastrophic events, power outages, cyber-security breaches, network outages, failed upgrades or similar events, and if such disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve such issues, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage or conduct business, as well as reputational harm, and we may be subject to governmental investigations and litigation, any of which may adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our inability to safeguard against security breaches with respect to our information technology systems could damage our reputation and adversely impact our profitability. Our business employs systems and websites that allow for the storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our business, customers and employees including credit card information.  Attackers continuously enhance and evolve their methods to compromise data.  We continue to research and deploy technology that mitigates security risk including reducing financial gain to an adversary when possible. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information and potential liability.  We have experienced cyber incidents, which have not had a material adverse impact on our business and for which we have taken measures to prevent from reoccurring. We may, however, experience them in the future, potentially with more frequency and/or sophistication.  We may not be able to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees and engage third-party experts and consultants. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries or other developments may result in the technology we use to protect transaction or other data, being breached or compromised. Data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues including intentional or inadvertent breach by employees or persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. Any compromise or breach could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant financial exposure and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation.. 13. We may be exposed to risks and costs associated with the loss of customer information that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and loss of revenues. We collect customer data, including encrypted credit card information, in our stores, at special events and online. For our sales channels to function successfully, we and third parties involved in processing customer transactions for us must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. We cannot guarantee that any of our security measures or the security measures of third parties with whom we work will effectively prevent others from obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' information. If such a breach were to occur, customers could lose confidence in our ability to secure their information and choose not to purchase from us. Any unauthorized access to customer information could expose us to data loss or manipulation, litigation and legal liability, and could seriously disrupt operations, negatively impact our marketing capabilities, cause us to incur significant expenses to notify customers of the breach and for other remediation activities, and harm our reputation and brand, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, state, federal, and foreign governments are increasingly enacting laws and regulations protecting consumers' privacy and personal information against identity theft and unwanted exposure. These laws and regulations likely will increase the costs of doing business. If we fail to implement appropriate security measures or fail to detect and provide applicable notice of unauthorized access (as required by some of these laws and regulations), we could be subject to potential governmental investigations, claims for damages, or other remedies, which could adversely affect our business and operations.. We rely on key personnel, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified key personnel, including senior management. Collective or individual changes in our senior management and other key personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to determine and execute our strategies, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  There is a high level of competition for senior management and other key personnel, and we cannot be assured we will be able to attract, retain and develop a sufficient number of qualified senior managers and other key personnel.. A complex regulatory, compliance and legal environment could adversely affect us. We are subject to numerous domestic and foreign laws and regulations affecting our business, including those related to labor, employment, worker health and safety, competition, privacy, consumer protection, import/export and anti-corruption, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Additional legal and regulatory requirements have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment and the cost of compliance.  If these laws change without our knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers, distributors or employees, we could experience delays in shipments or receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our business.  Also, changes in laws and regulations could make operating our business more expensive or require us to change the way we do business.   Although we have put into place policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors, vendors and suppliers could take actions that violate these requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and on the market price of our common stock.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely impact our profitability. We have foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We currently do not utilize hedging instruments to mitigate foreign currency exchange risks.  Specifically, fluctuations in the value of the Canadian Dollar, Mexican Peso, Chinese Yuan, Hong Kong Dollar and Euro against the U.S. Dollar could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate could adversely affect us. We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. At any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing authorities. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. In addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may change or there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing tax. 14. laws.  As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. In addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations.. Recently enacted tax reform legislation in the U.S. will materially impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act had a significant impact on our effective tax rate, cash tax expenses and deferred tax asset and liability balances. The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code that affect us, including, but not limited to, (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018; (2) imposing a one-time transition tax on a deemed repatriation of all undistributed earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign corporations (\"Transition Tax\"); (3) adopting elements of a modified territorial tax system; (4) revising the rules governing foreign tax credits; (5) creating the base erosion anti-abuse tax (BEAT), a new minimum tax; (6) permitting certain capital expenditures to be expensed immediately; and (7) modifying or repealing many deductions and credits.  Certain changes became effective immediately, while others become effective for our fiscal year 2018. The impact of many provisions of the Tax Act is subject to interpretation until additional Internal Revenue Service guidance is issued.  The ultimate impact of the Tax Act may differ from the Company's estimates due to changes in the interpretations and assumptions made as well as any forthcoming regulatory guidance.  The SEC recently issued interpretive guidance under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\") that allows for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts. We expect that the impact of the Tax Act may be significant for fiscal year 2018 and future periods.  Additionally, the Tax Act includes particular changes that may not be positive for the Company, including deductibility of certain corporate expenses and two new international revenue-raising provisions, and contains provisions whose meaning is subject to differing interpretations, and future guidance may differ adversely from our current interpretation.. Impact of various legal proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a multinational company, we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims (\"Actions\") arising in the ordinary course of our business. Many of these Actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. Actions filed against us from time to time include commercial, intellectual property, customer, employment, and data privacy claims, including class action lawsuits. Actions are in various procedural stages and some are covered in part by insurance. We cannot predict with assurance the outcome of Actions brought against us. Accordingly, developments, settlements, or resolutions may occur and impact income in the quarter of such development, settlement, or resolution. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Other risk factors. Additionally, other factors could adversely affect our financial performance, including factors such as: our ability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses; any interruption of our key infrastructure systems, including exceeding capacity in our distribution centers; any disaster or casualty resulting in the interruption of service from our distribution centers or in a large number of our stores; any interruption of our business related to an outbreak of a pandemic disease in a country where we source or market our merchandise; extreme weather conditions or changes in climate conditions or weather patterns; the effects of changes in interest rates; and international and domestic acts of terror.. The impact of any of the previously discussed factors, some of which are beyond our control, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results in these statements and other forward-looking statements we may make from time-to-time."
