[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment in our common stock, you should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report, including our \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" Any of the risk factors described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. As a result of the risks and uncertainties described below as well as such additional risks and uncertainties, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Attracting and Retaining Students. Our success and financial performance depends on the effectiveness of our ability to attract students who persist in our institutions' programs.. Building awareness of our institutions and the programs they offer among potential students is critical to our institutions' ability to attract new students. In order to maintain and increase our revenue and profits, our institutions must continue to attract new, qualified students in a cost-effective manner, and these students must remain active in our institutions' programs. In addition, because our institutions experience declines in their student population as a result of graduation, transfers to other academic institutions, military deployments and other reasons, in order to grow we need to first attract sufficient students to replace those who have left. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully advertising and marketing our institutions' programs and from successfully enrolling and retaining qualified students in those programs include:. • changes and revisions to policies of the Department of Defense, or DoD, and the various military services;. • challenges in maintaining strong relationships with military and military-affiliated communities;. • the emergence of more, and more successful, competitors, and alternative education models;. • factors related to our institutions' marketing, including the costs of internet advertising and multi-faceted interactive marketing campaigns;. • challenges in designing marketing campaigns that successfully attract college-ready students;. • the reduced availability of, or higher interest rates and other costs associated with, Title IV loan funds or other sources of financial aid;. • performance problems with our institutions' online systems;. • our institutions' failure to maintain accreditation, state authorization, eligibility for Title IV programs or other sources of financial aid, or other approvals;. • increased regulation of online education, including in states in which we do not have a physical presence;. • regulatory investigations or litigation that may limit our ability to operate or damage our reputation;. • student dissatisfaction with our institutions' services and programs;. • failure to develop and deliver a message or image for American Public University System, or APUS, that resonates well with non-military students;. • adverse publicity regarding us, our institutions, our competitors, or online or for-profit education generally;. • a decline in the acceptance of online education generally; and. • a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that students derive from our institutions' programs or programs provided by for-profit schools generally.. If we are unable to continue to develop awareness of our institutions and the programs we offer, and to recruit and enroll students that persist in our programs over time, our enrollments will suffer and there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 48. Our efforts to market APUS have not always been successful, and if we are unable to develop and optimize marketing and advertising programs that are effective, we will be unable to attract students and stabilize or grow our enrollments.. Our marketing strategy for APUS traditionally focused on building long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with organizations and individuals in the military, military-affiliated and public safety communities. However, with limitations on access to military students, as discussed further below under the Risk Factor that begins \"If APUS does not have strong relationships with, and access to, various military installations . . .\" and with a continued focus on efforts to diversify and attract students outside of the military, we identified a need for marketing channels that attract college-ready students who perform well at APUS upon enrollment. However, we have experienced challenges with doing so, and there is no assurance that we will be able to do so, on a cost-effective basis.. Furthermore, because APUS's tuition is generally lower than that of most of its competitors, it has fewer dollars to spend per student on marketing and advertising than they do. As a result, APUS has tried to, and may in the future try to, implement new marketing tactics and channels with which it has no experience and which have no guarantee of success. If we are unable to develop and optimize marketing and advertising programs that are effective in developing awareness of our institutions and the programs we offer, and are unable to enroll and retain qualified students in military and non-military markets, our enrollments would suffer and our ability to increase revenue and maintain profitability would be significantly impaired.. If we are unable to effectively market HCN's programs, our operating results would be negatively affected.. The success of Hondros College of Nursing, or HCN, depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and increase student enrollments in HCN's programs. Prior to our acquisition of HCN, we had no experience with attracting new students to, and retaining students in, educational programs offered primarily on physical campuses. With the opening of HCN's fifth campus in Toledo in January 2017, we are now marketing in a geographic market in which HCN did not previously market. If in the future we are unable to effectively market HCN's programs, we may not be able to successfully execute our long-term strategic plan to diversify our business and expand our programs, which would negatively affect our operating results.. If APUS does not have strong relationships with, and access to, various military installations and installation education centers, our ability to maintain enrollments from military students and our future growth may be impaired.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 54% of APUS's students self-reported that they served in the military on active duty at the time of initial enrollment, and a significant portion of APUS students rely on DoD tuition assistance programs to pay for their education. We are therefore highly dependent on our relationship with the military and its members, and our ability to attract and retain military service members as students.. APUS historically relied on its relationships with the staff of educational centers on military installations to distribute information about APUS to interested service members. APUS also historically provided counseling services directly to existing students on military installations, which is beneficial in supporting those students and helping them to persist with their education. Because APUS relies on referrals and personal relationships for recruiting, impediments to access can have an adverse effect on maintaining and generating registrations from military students.. In recent years, DoD has issued briefings that specifically prohibit authorizing regular or recurring office hours for an educational institution to solely provide counseling and that prohibit allowing former military members to access installations to represent an educational institution using their government ID card privileges. This change has adversely affected our efforts to support existing students and recruit new students. If we are not able to improve our access to military installations and our existing students on those installations, or find alternative methods to serve them, our military enrollments could continue to decline. Furthermore, the 2014 MOU, which is discussed in \"Regulatory Environment - Department of Defense,\" and the related increased focus by DoD on relationships with and oversight of educational providers, or additional new DoD instructions or briefings, could lead to further adverse changes in the nature of our relationships with military installations and their education centers and our access to military service members.. An inability to maintain strong relationships with installation education centers and with military service members would have an adverse effect on APUS's ability to attract and retain qualified students, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition.. 49. Enrollments and course registrations by active duty service members may be adversely affected by a variety of factors not directly related to education programs, including changes in military activity and budgets.. Events not directly related to education programs that could occur in the future could lead to a reduction in registrations from students on active duty. For example, we believe that large-scale personnel reductions or other significant drawdowns of U.S. active duty military forces would likely have a negative effect on enrollment and course registrations. Increased operations and overseas deployments across all branches of the military and the related increased demands on many active duty service members, combined with limited internet access associated with some deployments, could also negatively impact the ability of certain active duty military students to pursue higher education.. Military budget cuts could also negatively affect us by leading to force reductions or cuts to services and tools that we or APUS's students rely upon for recruitment, enrollment, access and tuition assistance. Even temporary changes to military activity and budgets may adversely affect operations. For example, in October 2013, the Uniform Tuition Assistance Program of the DoD, or the DoD tuition assistance programs, was temporarily suspended as a result of the U.S. federal government partial shutdown, which we believe could have caused as many as 13,100 registrations at APUS to be dropped. Funding for the federal government, including the DoD, lapsed on January 20, 2018, and the federal government partially shut down for a few days. Congress then enacted legislation to extend government funding for DoD through February 8, 2018. Funding for the government lapsed again on February 9, 2018, resulting in a shutdown that lasted for several hours. Later on February 9, 2018, Congress enacted a continuing resolution to extend funding for the federal government through March 23, 2018; however, if funding is not extended beyond that date, a government shutdown could occur, resulting in a suspension of DoD tuition assistance programs. Any future government shutdown or suspension of DoD tuition assistance programs could have a material adverse effect on APUS's enrollments.. We will remain subject to the risk of events that occur within and with respect to the military, even where they do not directly relate to the use of DoD tuition assistance programs. Because of our dependence on active duty military students, changes that occur within and with respect to the military could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. DoD tuition assistance programs offered to service members of the U.S. Armed Forces constituted approximately 37% of APUS's adjusted net course registrations for 2017, and our revenue and number of students would decrease if APUS is no longer able to receive funds under these tuition assistance programs or if tuition assistance is reduced, eliminated, or suspended.. Service members of the U.S. Armed Forces are eligible to receive tuition assistance from their branch of service through the DoD tuition assistance programs. Service members may use DoD tuition assistance programs to pursue postsecondary education at institutions that are accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education and that satisfy other requirements, including execution of, and compliance with, a Memorandum of Understanding, or MOU, that specifies terms and conditions of participation in DoD tuition assistance programs. Students participating in DoD tuition assistance programs constituted approximately 37% of APUS's adjusted net course registrations for 2017. While HCN has submitted an application to participate in the DOD tuition assistance programs, HCN does not currently participate in DoD tuition assistance programs.. We do not know the scale or nature of future actions that may be taken with respect to DoD tuition assistance programs, which could include eliminating those programs, reducing the funds or benefits available thereunder, enacting new restrictions on participation or imposing other criteria in addition to the level of reimbursement that would impact enrollments from service members. Other administrative changes to DoD programs could also have negative effects on our enrollments. For example, in March 2013, DoD issued an instruction restricting the ability of service members in certain overseas duty locations outside the continental United States, or overseas locations, to receive DoD tuition assistance for courses offered by institutions of higher education that are not parties to contracts with DoD to provide DoD voluntary education programs at those locations. Because we do not have a contract with DoD to provide instruction at overseas locations, service members who begin a postsecondary education program after arrival at an applicable overseas duty location may not use DoD tuition assistance programs to pay for their education in our programs until after they have successfully completed a course with an institution that has a contract to provide voluntary education programs at that overseas location.. Changes to DoD tuition assistance programs have already occurred, and we expect there could be changes to the programs in the future. For example, the Army now requires service members to complete one year of service after graduation from Advanced Individual Training in order to be eligible for tuition assistance, the Army has reduced the total benefit per service member by $500 per year, and the Marine Corps requires 24 months on active duty prior to Marines being eligible to apply for tuition assistance. Additional changes to DoD tuition assistance programs could occur due to Congressional action or DoD policy and funding changes. If we are no longer able to receive funds from DoD tuition assistance programs, or if those. 50. programs are reduced, eliminated, or temporarily suspended, our enrollments and revenue could be significantly reduced, which would result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. If our institutions are unable to successfully adjust to future market demands by updating and expanding the content of existing programs and developing new programs, specializations and modes of teaching on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner, our performance may be impaired.. We believe that in order to continue to retain and attract qualified students our institutions need to continuously update and expand the content of their existing programs and develop new programs, specializations and modes of teaching. However, the updates and expansions of our institutions' existing programs and the development of new programs and specializations may not be accepted by their accreditors, state regulators, ED, existing or prospective students, or employers. If we cannot respond to changes in market requirements, our business may be adversely affected. Even if our institutions are able to develop acceptable new programs, they may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as students require or as quickly as competitors introduce competing programs. To offer a new academic program, our institutions may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state, and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. If we are unable to respond adequately to changes in market requirements due to financial constraints, regulatory limitations, or other factors, our institutions' ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and our financial results could suffer.. Establishing new academic programs, specializations and modes of teaching or modifying or eliminating existing programs requires our institutions to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses, and reallocate other resources. Our institutions may have limited experience providing courses in new fields of study or new modes of teaching (such as competency-based education, or CBE, micro-credentials or other non-degree credentials) and may need to modify systems and strategies or enter into arrangements with other institutions and organizations to provide new programs effectively and profitably. If our institutions are unable to establish new academic programs, increase the number of students enrolling in new academic programs, offer programs in a cost-effective manner, or otherwise manage effectively the operations of those programs, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Strong competition in the postsecondary education market could continue to decrease our institutions' market share and increase our cost of acquiring students.. Within the postsecondary education market, our institutions compete primarily with not-for-profit public and private two-year and four-year colleges, as well as other for-profit schools, particularly those that offer online learning programs. Public institutions receive substantial government subsidies, and public and private not-for-profit institutions have access to government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions, and other financial resources generally not available to for-profit schools. These institutions may have instructional and support resources, or course delivery tools, that are superior to those of our institutions and other for-profit schools. Many of our competitors also have substantially greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively for potential students, or to provide instructional and support resources that are superior to those of our institutions and other for-profit schools. Within the postsecondary education market generally, we anticipate increased competition, including because of consolidation, the entrance of additional providers of online programs, a shift of for-profit institutions to not-for-profit status, and a decline in the total postsecondary student population. According to the National Student Clearinghouse, enrollment in Title IV postsecondary degree-granting institutions in the fall of 2017 decreased 1.0%, compared to the fall of 2016, with a decrease of 7.1% taking place among four-year for-profit schools. Longer term projections suggest that previous growth in enrollment in postsecondary degree-granting institutions is slowing. According to a September 2017 report from ED, such enrollment was projected to grow 15% over the 11-year period ending in fall of 2025, compared to 32% growth over the 14-year period that ended in 2014. The combination of reduced growth or declines in the postsecondary student population and increased online capacity in the postsecondary education market will further intensify competition, and any further decline in the number of enrollments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We expect to continue to face greater competition from non-traditional offerings, provided by both educational institutions and non-traditional providers.. In recent years, competing institutions and others have started providing non-traditional, credit-bearing and non-credit-bearing education programs without charge or at low costs. We have also observed an increase in institutions offering CBE programs, which permit students to progress in a program by demonstrating that they have achieved certain skills or knowledge rather than by earning credit hours. ED has issued guidance addressing access to Title IV programs for students in CBE programs. We believe that our institutions will continue to face new competition from CBE and other non-traditional programs, including competition from lower cost alternatives. Additionally, non-traditional competitors, such as entities providing coding. 51. bootcamps and micro-credentials, are offering new alternative educational paths. While we are working to develop our own alternatives in some of these areas, including the launch of MomentumTM, a CBE program at APUS, in the first quarter of 2017, there are other institutions with programs that are more fully developed, and our offerings may not receive market acceptance. In addition, although APUS has applied for approval to offer Title IV program aid to students enrolled in MomentumTM programs, those programs are not currently approved for the Title IV aid, and we cannot be certain that they will qualify for access to Title IV programs. Our institutions may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could adversely affect their business or results of operations. These competitive factors could cause our institutions' enrollments, revenue, and profitability to decrease significantly.. Strong competition in the military market could decrease our institutions' market share and increase our cost of acquiring students.. We anticipate that APUS will continue to see strong competition within the military market, which continues to be a primary market for APUS. There are a number of for-profit schools and not-for-profit institutions that focus on the military market because of the size of the market and the availability of funding, and some for-profit schools seek to attract students eligible for DoD tuition assistance programs, VA education benefits, or both, at least in part as a strategy of those institutions to satisfy the 90/10 Rule, which is described in \"Regulatory Environment - Student Financing Sources and Related Regulations/Requirements - Department of Education - Regulation of Title IV Financial Aid Programs - The '90/10 Rule.'\". Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Industry. If we or our institutions fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for the operation of postsecondary education institutions, we and our institutions could face penalties and significant restrictions on operations, including loss of access to DoD tuition assistance programs and federal student loans and grants.. We and our institutions are subject to extensive regulation by (i) accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education, (ii) state regulatory bodies, and (iii) the federal government, through ED. Because APUS participates in DoD tuition assistance and VA education benefits programs administered by DoD and the VA, respectively, and HCN participates in VA benefit programs, they are also subject to oversight by those agencies. The regulations, standards, and policies of these organizations cover the vast majority of our institutions' operations, including their educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations, and financial condition. These regulatory requirements can also affect the ability to acquire new institutions, open new locations, add new or expand existing educational programs, change our corporate structure or ownership, and make other substantive changes. These requirements can also increase our cost of operations.. Findings of noncompliance with these laws, regulations, standards, and policies could result in any of the relevant regulatory agencies taking action including: imposing monetary fines, penalties, or injunctions; limiting operations, including restricting our institutions' ability to offer new programs of study or to open new locations, or imposing limits on our growth; limiting or terminating our ability to grant degrees; restricting or revoking our institutions' accreditation, licensure, or other approval to operate; limiting, suspending, or terminating our institutions' eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, DoD tuition assistance programs, or VA benefit programs; requiring us to repay funds, post a letter of credit, or become subject to payment methods for Title IV programs that are not the advance payment system; subjecting us to civil or criminal penalties; or other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The regulations, standards, and policies of ED, state regulatory bodies, and our institutions' accrediting agencies change frequently and are subject to interpretive ambiguities. Recent and pending changes in, or new interpretations of, applicable laws, regulations, standards, or policies, or our noncompliance with any applicable laws, regulations, standards, or policies, could have a material adverse effect on our accreditation, authorization to operate in various states, permissible activities, receipt of funds under DoD tuition assistance programs, our ability to participate in Title IV programs, our ability to participate in VA education benefit programs, or costs of doing business. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether we will be able to comply, or will be deemed by others to have complied, with all of the requirements. In the section entitled \"Regulatory Environment\" of this Annual Report and these Risk Factors, we have described some of the more significant risks related to the ability of our institutions to comply with the regulations, standards, and policies of ED, DoD, state regulatory bodies, and our accrediting agencies.. In addition, in some circumstances of noncompliance or alleged noncompliance, we may be subject to \"qui tam\" lawsuits under the Federal False Claims Act or various, similar, state false claim statutes, and various \"whistleblower\" statutes. In Federal False Claims Act actions, private plaintiffs seek to enforce remedies under the Federal False Claims Act on behalf of the U.S. government and, if successful, are entitled to recover their costs and to receive a portion of any amounts recovered by. 52. the U.S. government in the lawsuit. A similar process applies to state false claim statutes. These lawsuits can be prosecuted by a private plaintiff in respect of some action taken by us, even if ED or another regulatory body does not agree with the plaintiff's theory of liability, or the government can intervene and become a party to the lawsuit. Qui tam lawsuits have the potential to generate very significant damages linked to our receipt of government funds, including Title IV funding and DoD tuition assistance funds.. If our institutions fail to maintain their institutional accreditation, they would lose the ability to participate in DoD tuition assistance programs and Title IV programs.. Accreditation by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the Secretary of Education is required for participation in DoD tuition assistance programs and for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. APUS participates in DoD tuition assistance programs and Title IV programs, and HCN participates in Title IV programs. As described more fully above in each operating segment's section in \"Our Institutions - Accreditation\" and \"Regulatory Environment - Accreditation,\" APUS is accredited by HLC, an institutional accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of Education, and HCN is accredited by ACICS, an institutional accrediting agency that until December 2016 was recognized by the Secretary of Education. By decision dated December 12, 2016 the Secretary of ED withdrew and terminated ED's recognition of ACICS. As a result, under the terms of its provisional program participation agreement, or PPPA, HCN may continue to participate in the Title IV programs for up to eighteen months following the Secretary's decision to withdraw recognition of ACICS if HCN complies with certain conditions and requirements, including that HCN must pursue accreditation by another accrediting agency recognized by ED. HCN has an in process application for accreditation by the Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools, or ABHES, a national accreditor for allied health schools that is recognized by ED. On February 6, 2018, ABHES notified HCN that at its January 2018 meeting, ABHES acted to defer action on HCN's application for initial accreditation until ABHES's May 2018 meeting. If HCN does not obtain accreditation from ABHES, or if ACICS does not receive new initial recognition from ED, by June 12, 2018, HCN will lose its ability to participate in the Title IV programs.. Our institutions' accrediting agencies may impose restrictions on their accreditation or may terminate their accreditation. To remain accredited, our institutions must continuously meet certain criteria and standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources, and financial stability. Our institutions also must comply with accrediting agency policies and requirements, such as to apply and wait for approval before making certain changes. For example, in connection with our organizational realignment, HLC requested that APUS submit an application to enable HLC to determine whether APUS's proposal to enter into a shared services model with APEI constitutes a change in organization or structure that requires HLC prior approval. On December 22, 2016, APUS submitted the requested change of structure application. APUS recently asked HLC to consider the change in structure application at the HLC Board June 2018 meeting, subject to submission of updates to the application. In its February 7, 2018 letter to APUS imposing a governmental investigation designation, HLC notified APUS that it will continue to review APUS's change in structure application while that designation remains active; however, the HLC may determine to defer action on the application while the investigation is pending. The HLC Board of Trustees is tentatively scheduled to consider the application at its June 2018 meeting. HLC has indicated that it will review findings related to the designation, if any, when they occur and will determine whether such findings impact the change in structure application at that time. For more information about the current status of the change of structure application, see \"Regulatory Environment - Accreditation\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report. ACICS requires accredited institutions to submit annually certain campus-level and program-level data for purposes of monitoring student achievement against established requirements, and a campus or program that fails to satisfy the requirements may be subject to various actions up to withdrawal of accreditation or may be required to cease enrollment in the program. Failure to meet any of these criteria or standards or to comply with these policies and requirements could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of the accrediting agencies. The complete loss of accreditation would, among other things, render our institutions and their students ineligible to participate in DoD tuition assistance programs and Title IV programs, and have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenue, and results of operations.. Participation in the tuition assistance programs of the DoD requires compliance with numerous regulations, with which the failure to comply could lead to a loss of an ability to participate in these programs or other adverse events.. In order to participate in the DoD tuition assistance programs, institutions must, among other things, comply with a Memorandum of Understanding, or MOU, that specifies terms and conditions of participation in DoD tuition assistance programs. By signing the MOU, APUS agreed to participate in DoD's Third Party Education Assessment. In January 2017, DoD announced that its Third Party Education Assessment will take the form of a new Voluntary Education Institutional Compliance Program, or ICP, which replaces the former process, the Military Voluntary Education Review. The ICP utilizes a sampling approach to regularly review the 2,700 educational institutions that participate in the DoD tuition assistance programs. Each year, DoD selects randomly 200 institutions and uses a risk-based model to select 50 additional institutions. The risk-based model takes into account several data elements, including: rate of course completion; total verified complaints; changes in. 53. enrollment of students receiving tuition assistance; ratio of graduation rate relative to cost per course; changes in graduation rate; and total number of enrollment transactions processed. The ICP is an iterative process with three stages. After each stage, DoD narrows the list of institutions subject for heightened review in the following stage. DoD shares the findings from each stage with other government agencies and regulators. An institution that is selected and has no issues will be exempt from random selection for three years and from risk-based selection for one year. By signing the MOU, APUS also agreed to participate in the ICP when requested. APUS was notified on May 8, 2017 that it was included in the first set of 250 institutions selected to participate in the ICP. On May 29, 2017, APUS submitted a self-assessment as part of the first stage of the ICP. On February 9, 2018, DoD issued an Iteration 1 Report for APUS that made two findings. With respect to recruiting, marketing, and advertising, DoD found some instances where attire worn by an individual providing testimonials on the institution's public-facing website could be construed as similar to a distinctive part of military uniform. With respect to financial matters, DoD found a lack of information relating to the financial aid process, including the lack of a timeline for applying for financial aid. APUS must develop a corrective action plan to address each of the findings within 30 days after receipt of the Iteration 1 Report and must resolve the findings and provide information to DoD about corrective actions taken within six months after receipt of the Iteration 1 Report. If the resolution cannot be completed within six months, APUS must submit a status report every three months until the finding is resolved. An educational institution that demonstrates an unwillingness to resolve a finding may be subject to a range of penalties from a written warning to revocation of the MOU and termination of the institution's participation in the DoD tuition assistance programs. If we are no longer able to receive funds from DoD tuition assistance programs, or if those programs are reduced, eliminated, or temporarily suspended, our enrollments and revenue could be significantly reduced, which would result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our institutions' student enrollments could decline if they fail to maintain accreditation.. Institutional accreditation is an important attribute of our institutions. Colleges and universities depend, in part, on accreditation in evaluating transfers of credit and applications to graduate schools. Many institutions will only accept transfer credit from regionally accredited institutions. Students, corporations, and government sponsors under tuition reimbursement programs look to accreditation for assurance that an institution maintains quality educational standards, and employers rely on the accredited status of institutions when evaluating a candidate's credentials. Failure to maintain our institutional accreditation would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenue, and results of operations. In addition, certain of our individual programs are accredited by specialized accrediting agencies, or recognized by professional organizations. If we fail to satisfy the standards of these specialized accrediting agencies and professional organizations, we could lose the specialized accreditation or professional recognition for the affected programs, which could result in materially reduced student enrollments in those programs and have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, in certain cases, professional licensure will not be granted if an applicant for licensure earned the relevant educational credential from an institution or educational program that lacks regional or specialized accreditation. Failure to obtain or maintain specialized accreditation or professional recognition for certain programs could result in materially reduced student enrollments in affected programs and have a material adverse effect on us.. If the accrediting agency of one of our institutions was to lose its ability to serve as an accrediting agency for Title IV program purposes and the institution was unable to obtain recognition from another recognized accrediting agency, that institution would lose its ability to participate in Title IV programs and DoD tuition assistance programs.. APUS is accredited by HLC. In June 2015, the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity, or NACIQI, the panel charged with advising ED on whether to recognize accrediting agencies for Title IV purposes, voted to recommend that ED renew HLC's recognition as an accrediting agency through December 2017. ED subsequently accepted NACIQI's recommendation and scheduled HLC for consideration during NACIQI's February 2018 meeting. We cannot predict whether NACIQI will recommend renewing HLC's recognition beyond February 2018. If HLC were to lose its recognition as an accrediting agency and APUS was unable to obtain recognition from another recognized accrediting agency, APUS would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and DoD tuition assistance programs. The inability of APUS to participate in Title IV programs would have a material adverse effect on enrollments, revenue, and results of operations.. HCN is accredited by ACICS. By decision dated December 12, 2016 the Secretary of ED withdrew and terminated ED's recognition of ACICS. As described below, ACICS has appealed the Secretary's decision in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. When the Secretary withdraws the recognition of an accrediting agency, a postsecondary educational institution may be allowed to continue its participation on a provisional basis in the Title IV programs for a period not to exceed 18 months from the date of the Secretary's decision to allow the institution to seek accreditation from another recognized accrediting agency. During this period of provisional participation, ED will deem an ACICS-accredited institution to hold recognized accreditation, and ED will require the institution to comply with additional conditions. ED will also impose certain additional requirements on ACICS-accredited institutions that do not meet certain milestones toward accreditation by another recognized accrediting agency. On December 21, 2016, HCN and ED executed a revised PPPA and addendum to the PPPA in which HCN agreed to comply with ED's conditions and requirements. HCN has an in-process application for accreditation by. 54. ABHES, an accrediting agency that is recognized by ED. On February 6, 2018, ABHES notified HCN that at its January 2018 meeting, ABHES acted to defer action on HCN's application for initial accreditation until ABHES's May 2018 meeting. If HCN does not obtain accreditation from ABHES, or if ACICS does not receive new initial recognition from ED, by June 12, 2018, HCN will lose its ability to participate in the Title IV programs.. On December 15, 2016, ACICS filed a motion for a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction against ED in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. ACICS asked the court to stay the Secretary's decision terminating ACICS's recognition status, restore ACICS's recognition status, and enjoin ED from enforcing the requirements for ACICS-accredited institutions, including those set forth in the PPPA. On December 20, 2016, the court denied ACICS's request for a temporary restraining order, and on February 21, 2017, the court denied ACICS's request for a preliminary injunction. On March 31, 2017, ACICS filed a motion for summary judgment seeking to vacate the Secretary's decision terminating ACICS's recognition status and requesting that the court return ACICS's petition for continued recognition to ED for reconsideration. On April 28, 2017, ED filed a cross-motion for summary judgment. Briefing on the motions was completed as of May 26, 2017, and the court may schedule a hearing to assist in its consideration of the motions. If the court does not restore ACICS's recognition status, HCN would not be eligible to participate in Title IV programs beyond June 12, 2018, unless HCN becomes accredited by another accrediting agency recognized by ED within that period. In addition, the approval status and in some cases funding provided by other agencies could be adversely affected by the loss of accreditation by ACICS. On October 4, 2017, ACICS announced that it had submitted to ED a formal petition for recognition as a national accreditor. ED subsequently scheduled ACICS's petition for consideration during NACIQI's May 2018 meeting.. The ineligibility of HCN to participate in Title IV programs would have a material adverse effect on HCN's enrollments and on our revenue, results of operations, and financial condition.. National or regional accreditation agencies may prescribe more rigorous accreditation standards or special forms of monitoring for our institutions, which could have a material adverse effect on our student enrollment, revenue and cash flows.. The accreditation standards of the national or regional accreditation agencies that accredit our institutions can and do vary, and the accreditation agencies may prescribe more rigorous standards than are currently in place. Complying with more rigorous accreditation standards could require significant changes to the way we operate our business and increase our administrative and other costs. No assurances can be given that our institutions would be able to comply with more rigorous accreditation standards in a timely manner or at all. If one of our institutions does not meet its accreditation requirements, its accreditation could be limited, modified, suspended, or terminated. Failure to maintain accreditation would make such institution ineligible to participate in DoD tuition assistance programs and Title IV programs, which could have a material adverse effect on the institution's student enrollment and revenue.. Because of rapid growth in, and increased scrutiny of, the for-profit education sector, accrediting bodies may adopt new or revised criteria, standards, and policies that are intended to monitor, regulate, or limit the growth of for-profit institutions like ours. For example, on August 31, 2016, HLC adopted policy changes that are intended to allow HLC to respond quicker to developing situations at accredited institutions. The policy changes permit HLC to designate publicly an institution as \"in financial distress\" or \"under governmental investigation,\" where such situations have the potential to impact the institution's operations and HLC believes the public should have information in making a decision to attend or continue to attend the institution. An accredited institution with a designation will be required to submit regular reports to HLC or undergo other special monitoring, and a substantive change application from an institution with a designation will be subject to strict scrutiny and may be deferred until the removal of the designation or may be denied. A designation typically will extend for not more than two years and may be removed when HLC determines the designation is no longer required because the institution has resolved the issues that led to the designation. On February 7, 2018, HLC notified APUS that it is imposing a \"governmental investigation\" designation on APUS in connection with the Civil Investigative Demand, or CID, issued to APUS on July 31, 2017 by the Attorney General of Massachusetts, which is discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report. The designation is expected to remain in place until the office of the Attorney General of Massachusetts concludes its investigation, at which time HLC will review the circumstances of the situation and determine what further action HLC will take, if any. In imposing the designation, HLC reaches no conclusions about the merits of the investigation or its possible outcome. Imposition of the designation is accompanied by monitoring and a notice on HLC's website that APUS is currently under governmental investigation. APUS must submit an interim report no later than June 4, 2018 providing an update regarding the status of the investigation. We cannot predict what actions HLC will take with respect to the designation.. Beginning in 2012, ACICS, HCN's accreditor, established requirements, including minimum \"standards\" and expected \"benchmarks,\" to measure student retention, graduate placement and licensure exam passage rates. To satisfy ACICS's. 55. standards, the retention rate, placement rate, and licensure exam pass rate each must exceed 60%. To satisfy ACICS's benchmarks, each rate must exceed 70%. If ACICS determines that an institution's campus-level or program-level data does not satisfy one or more standards or benchmarks, ACICS may take certain actions. In January 2017, ACICS published a new policy, effective December 6, 2016, that defines in terms of metric ranges when a particular action will be taken at the campus and program levels, including placement on reporting status, issuance of a compliance warning, issuance of a show-cause directive, or issuance of an adverse action. For the reporting year July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016, several HCN campuses and programs did not satisfy ACICS student achievement measures and as a result were placed on reporting status or were issued a compliance warning. HCN timely fulfilled all ACICS requirements with respect to those actions. On January 17, 2018, ACICS notified HCN that for the reporting year July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017, three of its programs - the Diploma in Practical Nursing Program, or the PN Program, at the Cleveland campus, the PN Program at the Columbus campus, and the online Registered Nurse to Bachelor of Science in Nursing Program, or the RN-to-BSN Program - did not satisfy ACICS student achievement benchmarks with respect to student retention rates. Each had a retention rate between 60 and 69.9%. ACICS placed these programs on reporting status and HCN is required to develop and implement an Improvement Plan that includes specific activities that are being implemented to improve student retention.. HCN has an in-process application for accreditation by ABHES, an accrediting agency that is recognized by ED. Like ACICS, ABHES has established requirements related to student retention, graduate placement, and licensure exam passage rates. Under ABHES policy, failure to demonstrate at least a 70% retention rate for each program, a 70% placement rate for each program, or a 70% pass rate on mandatory licensing and credentialing examinations, or failure to meet state-mandated results for credentialing or licensure, raises a question whether accreditation requirements are being met. If ABHES determines that a program does not satisfy its requirements, ABHES may require the institution or program to demonstrate that it has effectively analyzed the situation and taken measures to correct the deficiency through creation of an action plan, or may direct the institution or program to show cause why the institution or program should not have its accreditation withdrawn.. If any of the HCN campuses or programs, fails to satisfy ACICS or ABHES achievement measures, enrollment in such HCN campuses or programs could decline, or we could be forced to cease enrollments at those campuses or in those programs, which could have a material adverse impact on HCN's student enrollment, revenue, and cash flows. The actions HCN is taking to improve its student achievement measures may not be successful in resolving existing issues or may fail to prevent additional issues arising with respect to other campuses or programs.. If our institutions fail to maintain state authorization in the states where they are physically located, the institutions would lose their ability to grant degrees and other credentials in that state and to participate in Title IV programs and DoD tuition assistance programs.. As discussed in the \"Regulatory Environment - State Licensure/Authorization\" section of this Annual Report, to participate in Title IV programs and DoD tuition assistance programs, an institution must be legally authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is physically located. Loss of state authorization by one of our institutions in the state in which it is physically located would cause that institution to be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and DoD tuition assistance programs and lose its ability to grant credentials.. APUS is currently authorized to offer its programs by the West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission, or WVHEPC, the regulatory agency governing postsecondary education in West Virginia. Such authorization may be lost, limited or withdrawn if APUS fails to comply with material requirements under West Virginia statutes and rules for continued authorization. Under current law, if APUS were to lose its regional accreditation by HLC, WVHEPC may suspend, withdraw, or revoke APUS's authorization. In addition, in order to maintain its eligibility for accreditation by HLC, APUS must remain headquartered and have a substantial presence in one of the states in its region, which includes West Virginia. Thus, if APUS were to lose its authorization from WVHEPC, APUS would be unable to provide educational services in West Virginia, APUS would lose its eligibility for Title IV programs and DoD tuition assistance programs, and APUS would lose its HLC accreditation.. HCN is authorized by the Ohio State Board of Career Colleges and Schools and the Ohio Department of Higher Education. Such authorization may be limited, suspended, or revoked if HCN fails to submit renewal applications or other required submissions to the state in a timely manner, or if HCN fails to comply with material requirements under applicable Ohio statutes and rules for continued authorization. Continued state authorization is required in order to maintain ACICS accreditation. If HCN were to lose its authorization from the Ohio State Board of Career Colleges and Schools, HCN would be unable to provide educational services in Ohio, HCN would lose its eligibility for Title IV programs, and HCN would lose its accreditation. If HCN were to lose its authorization from the Ohio Department of Higher Education, HCN would be unable to offer the online Registered Nurse to Bachelor of Science in Nursing completion program in Ohio. If HCN were to lose approval. 56. from the Ohio Board of Nursing for the Diploma in Practical Nursing or the Associate Degree in Nursing, students in the program lacking approval would not be eligible to apply for licensure by examination to practice nursing in Ohio.. ED regulations provide that an institution is considered legally authorized by a state if the state has a process to review and appropriately act on complaints concerning the institution, including enforcing applicable state laws, and the institution complies with any applicable state approval or licensure requirements consistent with the new rules. If a state in which one of our institutions is located fails to comply in the future with the provisions of that regulation, our institutions' ability to operate in that state and to participate in Title IV programs could be limited or terminated. For additional information on these regulations please refer to the \"Regulatory Environment - ED's State Licensure/Authorization\" section of this Annual Report.. The Ohio State Board of Career Colleges and Schools, or Ohio State Board, initiated formal disciplinary action against HCN's Cincinnati campus based on allegations related to changes to the PN Program curriculum.. In August 2017, HCN received notice from the Ohio State Board of Career Colleges and Schools that the Ohio State Board was initiating formal disciplinary action against HCN's Cincinnati campus because the campus discontinued offering one version of the PN Program curriculum allegedly without the Ohio State Board's permission and implemented a new PN Program curriculum. It was alleged that at least three students enrolled in the discontinued curriculum were unable to complete without transferring into the new program and incurring substantial costs and time to complete the program. As permitted, on August 10, 2017, HCN requested a hearing before the Ohio State Board with respect to the notification and HCN is cooperating with the Ohio State Board on the matter. Simultaneously, HCN submitted a proposed resolution to the Ohio State Board, which included for each of the three students a partial refund for classes in which they enrolled but earned no credit. The Ohio State Board accepted HCN's proposal. One student accepted the proposal, and the two others failed to return executed agreements to the Ohio State Board by their due dates. As a result, HCN is no longer obligated to make partial refunds to those two students, and on January 8, 2018, the Ohio State Board informed those two students that it had closed their cases.. Our institutions' failure to comply with the requirements of the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement or regulations of various states could result in actions that would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenue, and results of operations.. Various states impose regulatory requirements on educational institutions operating within their boundaries, including registration requirements applicable to online educational institutions that have no physical location or other presence in the state but offer educational services to students who reside in the state or advertise to or recruit prospective students in the state. The State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement, or SARA, is a voluntary agreement among member states, districts and territories that establishes comparable national standards for interstate offering of postsecondary distance education courses and programs. SARA is intended to make it easier for students to take online courses offered by postsecondary institutions based in another state. Our institutions participate in SARA, which allows our institutions to enroll students who reside in jurisdictions that are members of SARA. All states and the District of Columbia, with the exception of California and Massachusetts, are members of SARA as of December 2017. For jurisdictions that are not members of SARA, our institutions must satisfy the requirements of those individual states with regard to online education, which requirements may change from time to time and, in some instances, are not clear or are left to the discretion of state regulators.. For more information about those jurisdictions in which APUS and HCN are authorized, including where such authorization is provided through SARA, see \"Regulatory Environment - State Licensure/Authorization\" in this Annual Report. Changes in requirements to participate in SARA or changes to state laws and regulations and the interpretation of those laws and regulations by the applicable regulators may limit our ability to offer educational programs and award degrees. If one of our institutions was to fail to comply with the requirements to participate in SARA or state licensing or authorization requirements to provide distance education in a non-SARA state, the institution may lose its ability to participate in SARA or may be subject to the loss of state licensure or authorization to provide distance education in that non-SARA state, respectively. If one of our institutions was to fail to comply with state requirements to obtain licensure or authorization, it may be the subject of injunctive actions or penalties.. As described in the \"Regulatory Environment - State Licensure/Authorization\" section of this Annual Report, on December 19, 2016, ED published final regulations addressing, among other issues, state authorization of programs offered through distance education. The final regulations, which are effective July 1, 2018, require an institution offering distance education programs to be authorized by each state in which the institution enrolls students, if such authorization is required by the state, in order to award Title IV aid to such students. An institution could obtain such authorization directly from the state or through a state authorization reciprocity agreement. The final regulations require an institution to document the state process for resolving complaints from students enrolled in programs offered through distance education for each state in which such. 57. students reside and provide certain public and individualized disclosures to enrolled and prospective students regarding its programs that are provided or can be completed solely through distance education. On January 30, 2017, ED announced that it intends to take unspecified regulatory actions regarding certain regulations that have been published but have not yet taken effect, including the regulations related to state authorization of distance education. As of February 2018, ED had taken no action with respect to the state authorization of distance education regulations. If one of our institutions fails to obtain or maintain required state authorization to provide postsecondary distance education in a specific state, the institution could lose its ability to award Title IV aid to students in that state and could lose its ability to provide distance education in that state.. The inability of our institutions' graduates to obtain professional licensure, employment or other outcomes in their chosen fields of study could reduce our enrollments and revenue, limit our ability to offer educational programs, and potentially lead to litigation that could be costly to us.. Certain of our institutions' graduates seek professional licensure, employment or other outcomes in their chosen fields following graduation. Their success in obtaining these outcomes depends on numerous factors, including: the individual merits of the graduate; whether the institution and the program were approved by the state in which the graduate seeks licensure, or by a professional association; whether the program from which the student graduated meets all state requirements for professional licensure; and whether the institution or program has any required accreditation. Certain states have refused to license or certify students from particular APUS initial teacher licensure programs on grounds that the program did not meet one or more of the state's specific licensure requirements or was not approved by the state for purposes of professional licensure. Based on challenges related to satisfying varying state rules regarding eligibility for teacher licensure in a state, APUS determined not to enroll new students in any of its initial teacher licensure programs as of December 2014.. To apply for licensure to practice nursing in Ohio, an applicant must have successfully completed a nursing education program that is approved by the Ohio Board of Nursing, or the OBN. Regulations of the OBN, which approve the Diploma in Practical Nursing, or the PN Program, and the Associate Degree in Nursing, or the ADN Program, require that nursing education programs such as HCN's PN and ADN Programs have a pass rate on the relevant National Council Licensure Examination, or NCLEX, that is at least 95% of the national average for first-time candidates in a calendar year. If a program does not attain this pass rate, the program may face various consequences. On March 8, 2017, the OBN placed HCN's ADN Program on provisional approval because the ADN Program has not met the OBN pass rate standard for four consecutive years. The OBN will consider restoring a program to Full Approval status after a program is placed on provisional status due to low NCLEX scores if the program attains a pass rate that meets or exceeds 95% of the national average for first-time candidates for at least two consecutive years. If a program on provisional approval fails to meet and maintain the requirements of the OBN at the end of the time period established for provisional approval, the OBN may propose to continue provisional approval for a set time period or may propose to withdraw approval pursuant to an adjudication proceeding. At this time, the OBN has not released a final report of the ADN Program's performance for calendar year 2017, but preliminary data suggests that HCN's ADN Program did not meet the OBN pass rate standard in 2017. HCN has been implementing changes, including the curriculum changes discussed in this Annual Report, that are designed to improve NCLEX scores over time but there is no assurance that these changes will be successful. This situation could have an adverse impact on our ability to enroll students and eventually our ability to continue HCN's ADN Program, any of which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. State requirements for licensure are subject to change, as are professional certification standards, and we may not become aware of changes that may impact our students in certain instances. In the event that one or more states refuse to recognize our institutions' students for professional licensure based on factors relating to our institutions or programs, the potential growth of our institutions' programs would be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Requirements for employment vary from employer to employer and from field to field. To the extent our graduates fail to satisfy requirements for employment by particular employers or in a particular profession based on characteristics of our programs, the ability to maintain enrollments, as well as the potential for growth of our institutions' programs would be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if our institutions' graduates fail to obtain professional licensure, employment or other outcomes in their chosen fields of study, we and our institutions could be exposed to litigation, including class-action litigation, that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our institutions must periodically seek recertification to participate in Title IV programs, and may, in certain circumstances, be subject to review by the Department of Education prior to seeking recertification, and our future success may be adversely affected if our institutions are unable to successfully maintain certification or obtain recertification.. 58. An institution generally must seek recertification from ED at least every six years and possibly more frequently depending on various factors, such as whether it is provisionally certified. ED may also review an institution's continued eligibility and certification to participate in Title IV programs, or scope of eligibility and certification, in the event the institution undergoes a change in ownership resulting in a change of control, or expands its activities in certain ways, such as the addition of certain types of new programs, addition of new locations, or, in certain cases, changes to the academic credentials that it offers. In certain circumstances, ED must provisionally certify an institution, such as when it is an initial participant in Title IV programs, or has undergone a change in ownership and control.. A provisionally certified institution must apply for and receive ED approval of substantial changes and must comply with any additional conditions included in its program participation agreement. If ED determines that a provisionally certified institution is unable to meet its responsibilities under its program participation agreement, it may seek to revoke the institution's certification to participate in Title IV programs with fewer due process protections for the institution than if it were fully certified.. APUS is fully recertified to participate in Title IV programs through September 30, 2020. APUS will be required to apply timely for recertification in order to continue to participate in the Title IV programs after September 30, 2020.. HCN was deemed to have undergone a change of ownership and control in November 2013, requiring review by ED in order to reestablish eligibility and continue participation in Title IV programs. In January 2016 we received a letter from ED approving the change in ownership and control and granting HCN provisional certification to participate in Title IV programs. HCN received a fully executed PPPA in February 2016. While provisionally certified, HCN operates under the PPPA, which requires HCN to apply for and receive approval from the Secretary of Education before initiating any substantial changes, such as establishing an additional location at which at least 50% of an eligible program will be offered and Title IV program funds will be disbursed, offering academic programs at higher than the bachelor's degree level, or adding a new education program. In addition, as a result of the Secretary of Education's decision to withdraw and terminate ED's recognition of ACICS, on December 21, 2016, HCN and ED executed a revised PPPA and an addendum to the PPPA in which HCN agreed to comply with additional conditions and requirements. For more information about these conditions and requirements, see \"Regulatory Environment - Restrictions on Adding Locations and Educational Programs\" in this Annual Report. Under the addendum, HCN may continue to participate in the Title IV programs on a provisional basis until June 12, 2018, while HCN seeks accreditation by another recognized accrediting agency. During the term of the PPPA, HCN's participation in Title IV programs is subject to revocation for cause, which includes a failure to comply with any provision set forth in the PPPA, a violation of ED regulations deemed material by ED, or a material misrepresentation in the material submitted to ED as part of the institution's application for approval of the change of ownership and control.. If ED were to withdraw or not renew our institutions' certification to participate in Title IV programs, our students would no longer be able to receive Title IV program funds or DoD tuition assistance program funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenue, results of operations, and financial condition.. If our institutions are unable to successfully maintain certification or obtain recertification to participate in Title IV programs they will not be able to participate in DoD tuition assistance programs.. If our institutions are unable to successfully maintain certification or obtain recertification to participate in ED's Title IV programs, they will not be able to participate in DoD tuition assistance programs because the DoD MOU requires an institution to be certified to participate in Title IV programs in order to participate in DoD tuition assistance programs. Loss of participation in the DoD tuition assistance programs would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenue, results of operations, and financial condition.. A failure to demonstrate \"administrative capability\" may result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. ED's regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite \"administrative capability\" to participate in Title IV programs and the sanctions ED may impose if an institution fails to satisfy any of those criteria. To meet the administrative capability standards, an institution must, among other things, comply with all applicable Title IV requirements, including with respect to the administration of Title IV programs and the processing of Title IV program funds. See \"Regulatory Environment - Federal Support and Regulation of Postsecondary Education - Regulation of Title IV Financial Aid Programs - Administrative Capability.\" If an institution fails to satisfy any of the administrative capability requirements, ED may require the repayment of Title IV program funds, transfer the institution from the \"advance\" system of payment of Title IV program funds to heightened cash monitoring status, or to the \"reimbursement\" method of payment, place the institution on provisional certification status, or commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend, or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs.. 59. If one of our institutions is found not to have satisfied ED's \"administrative capability\" requirements, it could be limited in its access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which would limit our potential for growth and adversely affect our enrollment, revenue, results of operations, and financial condition.. A failure to demonstrate \"financial responsibility\" may result in the loss of eligibility by one of our institutions to participate in Title IV programs or require the posting of an irrevocable letter of credit in order to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by ED, or post a letter of credit in favor of ED, and possibly accept other conditions, such as provisional certification, additional reporting requirements, or regulatory oversight of its participation in Title IV programs. ED may also apply such measures of financial responsibility to a parent company of an eligible institution and, if such measures are not satisfied by the parent company, require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of ED, and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. For our institutions, ED applies its measures of financial responsibility at the level of the parent company, APEI. An obligation to post a letter of credit, or to accept other conditions, such as a change in our system of Title IV payment from ED for purposes of disbursement, could increase our costs of regulatory compliance, or affect our cash flow.. On November 1, 2016, ED published final regulations, which we refer to as the Borrower Defense Regulations, to, among other things, modify its financial responsibility standards to provide that an institution (other than a public institution) may not be able to meet its financial or administrative obligations, and is therefore not financially responsible, if it is subject to one or more triggering events that occur on or after July 1, 2017. For more information about the regulations, portions of which became effective July 1, 2017, see \"Regulatory Environment - Student Financing Sources and Related Regulations/Requirements - Department of Education - Regulation of Title IV Financial Aid Programs - Borrower Defenses\" of this Annual Report. On June 16, 2017, ED published a notice in the Federal Register to announce that in light of the existence and potential consequences of pending litigation that had been brought in federal court to challenge the Borrower Defense Regulations, ED decided to postpone indefinitely the implementation of certain provisions of the Borrower Defense Regulations, including provisions that would have revised ED's financial responsibility standards and added related disclosure requirements. Also on June 16, 2017, ED announced its intent to convene a negotiated rulemaking committee to develop proposed regulations to revise the Borrower Defense Regulations and to address certain other related matters. On August 30, 2017, ED announced that as part of the negotiated rulemaking committee to develop proposed regulations to revise the Borrower Defense Regulations it would form a subcommittee to focus on potential modifications to ED's financial responsibility regulations. On October 24, 2017, ED published an interim final rule in the Federal Register to delay until July 1, 2018 the effective date of the provisions of the Borrower Defense Regulations identified in the June 16, 2017 notice. ED stated that delay to a specific date, namely July 1, 2018 or July 1 of a later year, is required in order to comply with the Higher Education Act's master calendar requirements for rulemaking. On October 24, 2017, ED also published a notice in the Federal Register announcing ED's intent to delay from July 1, 2018 to July 1, 2019 the effective date of the provisions of the Borrower Defense Regulations identified in the June 16, 2017 notice, because ED determined it would not be practicable to engage in negotiated rulemaking and publish final regulations before July 1, 2018. The negotiated rulemaking committee held meetings in November 2017, January 2018, and February 2018, but the members of the committee did not reach consensus on proposed regulatory language. As a result, ED may propose regulatory language, including regulations to modify ED's financial responsibility standards, with no obligation to use language negotiated on or agreed upon during the committee meetings. We cannot predict what regulations will be proposed or ultimately adopted.. If one of our institutions is found not to have satisfied ED's financial responsibility requirements, it could be limited in its access to, or lose, Title IV program funds, which would limit our potential for growth and adversely affect our enrollment, revenue, and results of operations. If we, as the parent company of an eligible institution, are found not to have satisfied ED's financial responsibility measures, all of our institutions could be limited in their access to, or lose, Title IV program funds, which would limit our potential for growth and adversely affect our enrollment, revenue, results of operations, and financial position.. ED has initiated a rulemaking process to develop new standards and procedures related to borrower defense-to-repayment claims with respect to Title IV loan obligations and institutional liability for successful claims. While the final regulations have not been adopted, it is possible that the final regulations may create significant liability that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The Borrower Defense Regulations, among other things, establish a new federal standard and a process for determining whether a Direct Loan borrower has a defense to repayment on a Direct Loan based on an act or omission of an institution. As discussed in the previous risk factor, ED has postponed the implementation of certain provisions of the Borrower Defense Regulations. These provisions include the provisions establishing the new federal standard and process for determining whether. 60. a Direct Loan borrower has a defense to repayment on a Direct Loan based on an act or omission of an institution. ED also has convened a negotiated rulemaking committee to develop proposed regulations to revise the Borrower Defense Regulations and to address certain other related matters. We cannot predict what regulations will be proposed or ultimately adopted.. If under the forthcoming regulations, ED determines that borrowers of Direct Loans who attended our institutions have a defense to repayment of their Direct Loans, our repayment liability to ED could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Furthermore, the Borrower Defense Regulations would have prohibited institutions from requiring that students first engage in the institution's internal complaint process before contacting other agencies, prohibited the use of pre-dispute arbitration agreements by the institution, prohibited the use of class action lawsuit waivers, and required institutions to disclose to and notify ED of arbitration filings and awards, for claims that may form the basis for a borrower defense to repayment of a Direct Loan. If forthcoming regulations retain these prohibitions, we could incur claims and expenses that we have not previously incurred, and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If one or more of our institutions does not comply with the 90/10 Rule, it or they will lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs.. A provision of the HEA requires all proprietary education institutions to comply with what is commonly referred to as the 90/10 Rule, which imposes sanctions on participating institutions that derive more than 90% of their total revenue on a cash accounting basis from Title IV programs as calculated under ED's regulations. For more information including the 90/10 percentages for our institutions, see \"Regulatory Environment - Student Financing Sources and Related Regulations/Requirements - Department of Education - Regulation of Title IV Financial Aid Programs - The 90/10 Rule.\". The 90/10 Rule percentage for our institutions could increase in the future, depending on the impact of future changes in our enrollment mix, and regulatory and other factors outside our control, including, for APUS, any reduction in tuition assistance provided by DoD for service members and education benefits provided by the VA for veterans, or changes in the treatment of such funding for purposes of the 90/10 Rule calculation. Currently, DoD tuition assistance and VA education benefits are not treated as Title IV revenue under the 90/10 Rule and, therefore, for APUS, a majority of such funding is included in the \"10%\" portion of the rule calculation. A reduction in the availability of this type of funding, or a change (through legislation, regulatory action, or an executive order) that requires that those funds be treated in the same manner as Title IV funding under the 90/10 Rule, would increase our institutions' 90/10 Rule percentage. For the past three years, HCN has derived more than 80% of its total revenue on a cash accounting basis from Title IV programs as calculated under ED's regulations. If HCN is unable to attract students who do not depend on Title IV program aid, such as students who finance their own education or receive full or partial tuition reimbursement from their employers, or through VA benefits, HCN may violate the 90/10 Rule. If any of our institutions violates the 90/10 Rule and loses eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, its ineligibility to participate in Title IV programs would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenue, results of operations, and cash flows.. A failure by our institutions to comply with the Department of Education's incentive payment rule could result in sanctions.. If one of our institutions pays a bonus, commission, or other incentive payment in violation of applicable ED rules, that institution could be subject to sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If ED determines that one of our institutions violated the incentive payment rule, it may require the institution to modify its payment arrangements to ED's satisfaction. ED may also fine the institution or initiate action to limit, suspend, or terminate the institution's participation in Title IV programs. ED may also seek to recover Title IV funds disbursed in connection with the prohibited incentive payments. As described in \"Regulatory Environment - Student Financing Sources and Related Regulations/Requirements - Department of Education - Regulation of Title IV Financial Aid Programs - Incentive Payment Rule,\" changes in the interpretation of the regulation may create uncertainty about what constitutes impermissible incentive payments. Uncertainty as to how the incentive payment rule will be interpreted also may influence our approach, or limit our alternatives, with respect to employment policies and practices and consequently may negatively affect our ability to recruit and retain employees, and, as a result, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. DoD's 2014 MOU requires that institutions participating in the DoD tuition assistance programs have policies in place compliant with regulations issued by ED related to restrictions on payment of incentive compensation. Under the terms of the 2014 MOU, an institution participating in the DoD tuition assistance programs must refrain from providing any commission, bonus, or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on securing enrollments or federal financial aid, including DoD tuition assistance program funds, to any persons or entities engaged in student recruiting, admission activities, or making. 61. decisions regarding the award of student financial assistance. In 2013, the Improving Transparency of Education Opportunities for Veterans Acts established a ban on incentive compensation based on success in securing enrollments or financial aid with regard to VA benefits.. On June 2, 2015, ED released a memorandum regarding enforcement of the prohibition on the payment of incentive compensation by postsecondary institutions to any person or entity engaged in any student recruiting or admissions activities or in making decisions regarding the award of student financial assistance based directly or indirectly upon success in securing enrollments or financial aid. The memorandum indicated that ED will revise its approach to measuring damages for noncompliance with the prohibition against incentive compensation. In administrative enforcement actions, ED will calculate the amount of the institutional liability based on the cost to ED of the Title IV funds improperly received by the institution, including the cost to ED of all of the Title IV funds received by the institution over a particular period of time if those funds were obtained through implementation of a policy or practice in which students were recruited in violation of the incentive compensation prohibition. ED may also impose a fine upon an institution, or take administrative action to limit, suspend, revoke, deny, or terminate an institution's eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs, if the institution violates the prohibition. We are unable to predict the impact that ED's revised approach to measuring damages under the incentive compensation prohibition might have on our financial condition if one of our institutions is found to be in violation of the prohibition.. In addition, third parties may file \"qui tam\" or \"whistleblower\" suits on behalf of the federal government alleging violation of the incentive payment provision. Such suits may prompt ED investigations, and the federal government may determine to intervene in the lawsuits. Particularly in light of the uncertainty surrounding the modified incentive payment rule and ED's June 2015 memorandum, the existence of, the costs of responding to, and the outcome of, qui tam or whistleblower suits or ED investigations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation causing our enrollments to decline, could cause us to incur costs that are material to our business, and could impact the ability of our institutions to participate in Title IV programs, among other things. As a result, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. A failure to comply with the Department of Education's \"gainful employment\" regulations could result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. Under the HEA, proprietary schools are generally eligible to participate in Title IV programs only with respect to educational programs that prepare students for \"gainful employment in a recognized occupation.\" Historically, this concept has not been defined in detailed regulations. On October 31, 2014, ED published regulations related to gainful employment, which we refer to as the Final GE Regulations. On July 1, 2015, the Final GE Regulations went into effect, with the exception of new disclosure requirements, which took effect January 1, 2017. The Final GE Regulations establish debt-related measures for determining whether certain postsecondary education programs prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. The Final GE Regulations set forth two debt-to-earnings measures: an annual earnings rate and a discretionary income rate. Under the Final GE Regulations, a program will pass the measures if its graduates have annual loan payments less than or equal to 8% of their total earnings or less than or equal to 20% of their discretionary income. A program that does not pass either of the debt-to-earnings measures and that has an annual earnings rate that is greater than 8% and less than or equal to 12%, or a discretionary income rate that is greater than 20% and less than or equal to 30%, would be considered to be in a warning \"zone.\" Subject to the potential for adjustments based on a transition period, a program will fail the measures if its annual earnings rate is greater than 12% (or the denominator of the annual earnings rate is zero) and its discretionary income rate is greater than 30% (or the denominator of the discretionary earnings rate is negative or zero).. A program will become ineligible for Title IV funding if it fails both debt-to-earnings measures twice in three consecutive years, or if the program is in the \"zone\" for four consecutive years. An institution will be required to provide warnings to students, including prospective students, when notified by ED that a program could become ineligible based on its final debt-to-earnings measures for the next award year.. In addition to the debt-to-earnings measures, the Final GE Regulations include additional requirements related to gainful employment programs. For example, the Final GE Regulations require an institution's most senior executive officer to certify, as part of the program participation agreement, that each of its eligible gainful employment programs offered by the institution satisfies certain requirements related to institutional and programmatic accreditation and professional licensure, or certification exam requirements.. Also, the Final GE Regulations expand upon the gainful employment program disclosure requirements. On June 30, 2017, ED announced that it will allow institutions until July 1, 2018 to comply with certain disclosure requirements in the Final GE Regulations, including requirements to include a link to the disclosure template in promotional materials and to distribute directly a copy of the disclosure template to prospective students. The June 30, 2017 announcement did not change the July 1, 2017 deadline for the requirement to provide a completed disclosure template, or a link thereto, on GE program web pages, and. 62. the Final GE Regulations as a whole have not been delayed or altered. Accordingly, pending additional guidance or instruction from ED, APUS and HCN must continue to comply with the other requirements of the Final GE Regulations.. The Final GE Regulations could put the continuing Title IV eligibility of our educational programs at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the actual or deemed income level of our graduates, changes in student borrowing levels, increases in interest rates, changes in the federal poverty income level relevant for calculating discretionary income, and other factors. Failure to satisfy the gainful employment measures could reduce the ability of our institutions to offer or continue certain types of programs for which there is market demand, which could therefore impact our ability to maintain or grow our business. Additionally, the expanded gainful employment program disclosure requirements could adversely impact student enrollment, persistence, and retention if our institutions' disclosed program information compares unfavorably with disclosed information of other educational institutions.. On June 16, 2017, ED announced that it would convene a negotiated rulemaking committee to develop proposed regulations to revise the Final GE Regulations. ED held two public hearings and solicited written comment from the public with respect to the agenda for the negotiated rulemaking committee, which met for the first time in December 2017. We submitted written comments on the agenda for the negotiated rulemaking committee on July 12, 2017. The negotiated rulemaking committee held meetings in December 2017 and February 2018 and is scheduled to meet again in March 2018. We cannot predict what regulations will be proposed or ultimately adopted.. Our institutions may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if their student loan default rates are too high, and if our institutions lose that eligibility our future growth could be impaired.. To remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs, an educational institution's federal student loan cohort default rates must remain below certain specified levels. Each cohort is the group of students who first enter into student loan repayment during a federal fiscal year (ending September 30). If an institution's cohort default rate equals or exceeds 30% for any given year, it must establish a default prevention task force and develop a default prevention plan with measurable objectives for improving the cohort default rate. Educational institutions will lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if their cohort default rate exceeds 40% for any given year or is equal to or greater than 30% for three consecutive years. For more information including the default rates of our institutions, see \"Regulatory Environment - Student Financing Sources and Related Regulations/Requirements - Department of Education - Regulation of Title IV Financial Aid Programs - Student Loan Defaults.\". If one of our institutions is required to develop a default prevention plan, it may increase our administrative costs which would adversely impact our results of operations. In the past there has been increased attention by members of Congress and others on default prevention activities of proprietary education institutions. If such attention leads to Congressional or regulatory action restricting the types of default prevention assistance that educational institutions are permitted to provide, the default rates of our former students may be negatively impacted. Such attention could also lead to Congressional proposals to increase the measuring period, which could negatively impact our default rates. In the past, members of Congress have also introduced proposed legislation that would assess institutions a share of the costs associated with default of student loans by students who were enrolled in the institutions' education programs and would tie an institution's obligation to make such \"risk-sharing\" payments to the institution's eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs. If one of our institutions loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because of high student loan default rates, students would no longer be eligible to use Title IV program funds at that institution, which would significantly reduce that institution's enrollments and revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 63. We rely on third parties to administer our institutions' participation in Title IV programs and their failure to perform services as agreed or to comply with applicable regulations could cause us to lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. ED's regulations permit an institution to enter into a written contract with a third-party servicer for the administration of any aspect of the institution's participation in Title IV programs. The third-party servicer must, among other obligations, comply with Title IV requirements and be jointly and severally liable with the institution to the Secretary of Education for any violation by the servicer of any Title IV provision. Our institutions utilize third-party servicers for some services, such as financial aid processing, default management, and processing student credit balance refunds, and in the future may consider using third-party servicers for other functions that are currently managed directly by our institutions. If any third-party servicer that we have engaged does not comply with applicable statutes and regulations including the HEA, our institutions may be liable for its actions, and our institutions could lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. In the event that one of our third-party servicers fails to perform the services as agreed it may impact our ability to operate, negatively impact our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Further, in the event that our institutions transition to or from a third-party servicer for any of its services there would be costs and risks related to the transition which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our institutions will be subject to sanctions that could be material to our results and damage our reputation if the Department of Education determines that our institutions failed to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational program.. An institution participating in Title IV programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV program funds that have been disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completion, and must return those unearned funds to the Title IV programs in a timely manner, generally within 45 days after the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. Under ED regulations, late returns of Title IV program funds for 5% or more of students sampled in connection with the institution's annual Title IV compliance audit constitute material noncompliance for which an institution generally must submit an irrevocable letter of credit.. HCN's Title IV compliance audit for the year ended December 31, 2012, identified a deficiency related to timely return of Title IV program funds. In a Preliminary Audit Determination Letter dated July 10, 2013, ED requested additional information from HCN about the situation and required HCN to conduct a file review to identify those files that reflected an inaccurate refund. In a Final Audit Determination Letter dated February 28, 2014, ED determined that HCN was not required to repay the liability to ED and directed HCN to adopt procedures to prevent reoccurrence. HCN also was required to post an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of $128,290, which was released by ED in February 2018.. APUS's Title IV compliance audit for the year ended December 31, 2016 identified a finding related to return of Title IV funds calculations that were not properly computed. In a Final Audit Determination letter dated January 29, 2018, ED conveyed its finding that funds had not been returned timely. Under ED regulations, if the institution's annual Title IV compliance audit for either of its two most recently completed fiscal years finds that Title IV funds were not returned timely for 5% or more of students sampled in the audit, the institution generally must submit an irrevocable letter of credit. ED also noted that a similar finding had been made in an open program review with respect to which APUS has not yet received a program review report. In connection with the finding, ED indicated that APUS must post an irrevocable letter of credit equal to 25% of the total amount of Title IV program funds that should have been returned during calendar year 2016, which results in a requirement for a letter of credit of approximately $700,000. On February 15, 2018, APUS requested that ED reconsider its finding that APUS had made untimely returns and the related requirement to submit a letter of credit.. Our institutions' failure to comply with ED's substantial misrepresentation rules could result in material sanctions.. ED may take action against an institution in the event of substantial misrepresentation by the institution concerning the nature of its educational programs, its financial charges, or the employability of its graduates. The Program Integrity Regulations expanded the definition of \"substantial misrepresentation\" to cover additional representatives of the institution and additional substantive areas, expanded the parties to whom a substantial misrepresentation cannot be made, and increased actions ED may take if it determines that an institution has engaged in substantial misrepresentation. An institution engages in substantial misrepresentation when the institution itself, one of its representatives, or an organization or person with which the institution has an agreement to provide educational programs, marketing, advertising, or admissions services, makes a substantial misrepresentation directly or indirectly to a student, prospective student or any member of the public, or to an accrediting agency, a state agency, or to the Secretary of Education.. If ED determines that an institution has engaged in substantial misrepresentation, ED may: (i) if the institution is provisionally certified, revoke an institution's program participation agreement or impose limitations on its participation in Title. 64. IV programs; (ii) deny participation applications made on behalf of the institution; or (iii) initiate a proceeding against the institution to fine the institution or to limit, suspend or terminate the institution's participation in Title IV programs. If administrative actions or litigation claiming substantial misrepresentation were brought against our institutions, we could incur legal costs related to their investigation and defense, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition.. Failure to comply with ED's credit hour requirements could result in sanctions.. In the Program Integrity Regulations, ED defined \"credit hour\" for Title IV purposes as an institutionally established equivalency that reasonably approximates certain specified time in class and outside class, or an equivalent amount of work for other academic activities. The Program Integrity Regulations also require institutional accreditors to review the reliability and accuracy of an institution's credit hour assignments. An accreditor must take appropriate actions to address an institution's credit hour deficiencies and to notify ED if it finds systemic noncompliance or significant noncompliance in one or more programs. ED has indicated that if it finds an institution to be out of compliance with the credit hour definition for Title IV purposes, it may require the institution to repay the amount of Title IV funds awarded under the incorrect assignment of credit hours and, if it finds significant overstatement of credit hours, it may fine the institution or limit, suspend, or terminate its participation in Title IV programs. Any such action could materially and adversely affect our institutions' business. For more information, see the \"Regulatory Environment - Student Financing Sources and Related Regulations/Requirements - Department of Education - Regulation of Title IV Financial Aid Programs - Credit Hours\" section of this Annual Report.. Failure to comply with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act as implemented by ED could result in sanctions.. Our institutions must comply with certain campus safety and security reporting requirements as well as other requirements in the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, or Clery Act, including changes made to the Clery Act by the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, or VAWA. The Clery Act requires an institution to report to ED and disclose in its annual security report, for the three most recent calendar years, statistics concerning the number of certain crimes that occurred within the institution's so-called \"Clery geography.\" APUS historically has not had to comply with the Clery Act because it is a wholly online institution. As a result of opening a Veteran's Center in Charles Town, WV, APUS determined that it is no longer subject to that exclusion and issued its first annual security report in 2016. HCN publishes an annual security report required by the Clery Act. Regulations implementing statutory changes made to the Clery Act by VAWA were effective July 1, 2015. The new regulations require, among other things, that institutions maintain statistics about the number of incidents of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking that meet the definitions of those terms as set forth in the final rule; provide incoming students and new employees with, and describe in their annual security reports, primary prevention and awareness programs; provide students and employees with, and describe in their annual security reports, ongoing prevention and awareness campaigns; and provide in their annual security reports a description of each type of disciplinary proceeding used by the institution, which must be prompt, fair, and impartial. Our institutions' failure to comply with the Clery Act requirements or regulations promulgated by ED could result in action by ED to fine our institutions or to limit or suspend our institutions' participation in Title IV programs.. Enforcement of laws related to the accessibility of technology continues to evolve, which could result in increased information technology development costs and compliance risks.. APUS's educational programs and the HCN RN-to-BSN Program are made available to students through personal computers and other technological devices. For each of these programs, the curriculum makes use of a combination of graphics, pictures, videos, animations, sounds and interactive content. Federal agencies including ED and the Department of Justice have considered or are considering how electronic and information technology should be made accessible to persons with disabilities. For example, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, or Section 504, prohibits discrimination against a person with a disability by any organization that receives federal financial assistance. In 2010, ED's Office for Civil Rights, which enforces Section 504, together with the Department of Justice asserted that requiring the use of technology in a classroom environment when such technology is inaccessible to individuals with disabilities violates Section 504, unless those individuals are provided accommodations or modifications that permit them to receive all the educational benefits provided by the technology in an equally effective and integrated manner. If one of our institutions is found to have violated Section 504, it may be required to modify existing content and functionality of its online classroom or other uses of technology, including through adoption of specific technical standards. As a result of such enforcement action or as a result of new laws and regulations that require greater accessibility, our institutions may have to modify their online classrooms and other uses of technology to satisfy applicable requirements, which could require substantial financial investment. As with all nondiscrimination laws that apply to recipients of federal financial assistance, an institution may lose access to federal financial assistance if it does not comply with Section 504 requirements. In addition, private parties may file or threaten to file lawsuits alleging failure to comply with laws that prohibit. 65. discrimination on the basis of disability, and defending against such actions may require our institutions to incur costs to modify their online classrooms and other uses of technology and costs of litigation.. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims, or initiate enforcement actions or litigation against us, any of which could disrupt our institutions' operations and adversely affect their performance.. Because our institutions operate in a highly-regulated industry, we are subject to audits, compliance reviews, inquiries, complaints, investigations, claims of noncompliance, enforcement proceedings, and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies, students, employees, and third parties, including claims brought by third parties on behalf of the federal government. For example, ED regularly conducts program reviews of educational institutions that are participating in Title IV programs and the ED OIG regularly conducts audits and investigations of such institutions. Institutions that participate in the Title IV programs also must have an independent auditor conduct an annual audit of the institution's compliance with the laws and regulations that are applicable to the Title IV programs in which the school participates and submit the results of the audit to ED. Our institutions must submit such audits that have been conducted in accordance with the guide for audits of proprietary schools that was issued by the ED OIG in September 2016. In February 2016, ED created a Student Aid Enforcement Unit, or the Enforcement Unit, to enable ED to respond more quickly and efficiently to allegations of illegal actions by higher education institutions. The Enforcement Unit collaborates with state and federal agencies to enforce violations of law and works with ED's Program Compliance Unit to review evidence that may affect program reviews. The Federal Trade Commission has investigated and in some cases brought lawsuits against proprietary institutions alleging that the institutions engaged in deceptive trade practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has sued proprietary institutions for engaging in allegedly illegal predatory lending practices.. If the results of compliance reviews or other proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against lawsuits or claims, our institutions may be required to pay monetary damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of Title IV funding, injunctions, or other penalties, including the requirement to make refunds. For example, in September 2017, the ED Office of the Inspector General, or ED OIG, issued a final audit report concluding that a non-profit university that had previously received approval from ED to offer CBE programs for Title IV aid, did not satisfy institutional eligibility requirements to participate in the Title IV programs due to the relative level of student enrollments in correspondence courses. ED OIG recommended that ED's Federal Student Aid division require repayment of Title IV program funds. To the extent that the issues raised by ED OIG's report or other developments impacting the assessment by ED of CBE programs would cause delays or prevent ED's approval of MomentumTM for participation in federal student aid programs, our investment in the program may be impaired. Even if our institutions adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or to defend against those lawsuits or claims. Claims and lawsuits brought against us or one of our institutions may result in reputational damage, even if such claims and lawsuits are without merit. Any one of these sanctions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our institutions, which may materially adversely affect our ability to operate.. ED is currently conducting a program review of APUS's administration of the Title IV programs, and we cannot predict the outcome of the review.. In September 2016, ED began a program review of APUS's administration of the Title IV programs during the 2014-2015 and 2015-2016 award years. As part of the program review, ED conducted a site visit from September 12 to September 14, 2016. The program review remains open and ongoing. We anticipate that certain findings addressed in the 2016 Title IV compliance audit Final Audit Determination letter dated January 29, 2018 will be resolved through the program review process, including a finding that return of Title IV funds calculations were incorrectly computed for some students and a finding that APUS had incorrectly reported the students' enrollment status to the National Student Loan Data System for some students. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of the program review, when it will be completed, or whether it will impose any liability or other limitations on APUS as a result of the review.. Investigations by state Attorneys General, Congress, and governmental agencies may result in increased regulatory burdens and costs.. We and other proprietary postsecondary education providers have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation in recent years. State attorneys general have increasingly focused on allegations of improper recruiting, compensation, and deceptive marketing practices, among other issues. A number of state attorneys general have launched investigations into proprietary postsecondary education institutions. In July 2011, the Attorney General of Kentucky announced a national. 66. bipartisan effort, which grew to include approximately 30 states, to examine potential abuses by proprietary educational institutions. While the initial goal of the joint investigation was sharing information among the attorneys general about potential violations of consumer protection laws, the Attorney General of Kentucky indicated that the attorneys general may ultimately attempt to compel proprietary institutions located in their respective jurisdictions to revise their recruiting practices. In January 2014, many of the publicly traded for-profit postsecondary institutions, not including us, received demands for information from a network of 12 state attorneys general relating to, among other matters, the recruitment of students, admissions standards, graduate placement statistics, graduate certification and licensing results, and student lending activities. In June 2014, the Massachusetts' Attorney General released several consumer protection regulations, which, among other things, require certain disclosures that apply to for-profit and occupational schools operating in the state. Actions by state attorneys general and other governmental agencies, whether or not involving us or our institutions, could damage our reputation and the reputation of our institutions and limit the ability to recruit and enroll students, which could reduce student demand for our institutions' programs and adversely impact our revenue and cash flow from operations.. In recent years, the student lending practices of postsecondary educational institutions, financial aid officers, and student loan providers have been subjected to several investigations by state attorneys general, Congress, and governmental agencies. These investigations concern, among other things, possible deceptive practices in the marketing of private student loans and loans provided by lenders pursuant to Title IV programs. The Higher Education Opportunity Act, or HEOA, contains requirements pertinent to relationships between lenders and institutions. The HEOA also imposes substantive requirements and disclosure obligations on institutions that make available a list of recommended lenders for potential borrowers. New procedures introduced and recommendations made by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau also create uncertainty about whether Congress will impose new burdens on private student lenders. State legislators have also passed or may be considering legislation related to relationships between lenders and institutions. Further, in 2014 several federal agencies implemented an online student complaint system for service members, veterans, and their families to report negative experiences at educational institutions and training programs administering the Post-9/11 GI Bill, DoD tuition assistance programs, and other military-related education benefit programs. We can neither know nor predict with certainty the effects of such developments. Governmental action may impose increased administrative and regulatory costs and adversely affect our financial condition.. If the Massachusetts Attorney General finds that we did not comply with Massachusetts state law or regulations, we may be required to pay significant financial penalties and/or modify or curtail our operations.. On August 3, 2017, we received from the Attorney General of Massachusetts a CID, dated July 31, 2017, relating to an investigation of alleged unfair or deceptive acts or practices by AMU in connection with the recruitment and retention of students and the financing of education. The CID requires the production of documents and information relating to recruitment, enrollment, job placement and other matters. We continue to cooperate with the Attorney General's office and cannot predict the eventual scope, duration, or outcome of the investigation at this time. If the Attorney General finds that we did not comply with Massachusetts state law or regulations, we may be subject to claims of failure to comply with Massachusetts state law or regulations and may be required to pay significant financial penalties and/or modify or curtail our operations and/or our reputation and relationship with our current and prospective students could be harmed. Even if the Attorney General does not find that we did not comply with Massachusetts state law or regulations, or does not impose significant penalties or other repercussions, we have incurred and may continue to incur substantial legal costs in connection with the CID. In addition, on February 7, 2018, HLC notified APUS that it is imposing a \"governmental investigation\" designation on APUS in connection with the CID. The designation is expected to remain in place until the office of the Attorney General of Massachusetts concludes its investigation, at which time HLC will review the circumstances of the situation and determine what further action HLC will take, if any. In imposing the designation, HLC reaches no conclusions about the merits of the investigation or its possible outcome. Imposition of the designation is accompanied by monitoring and a notice on HLC's website that APUS is currently under governmental investigation designation. APUS must submit an interim report no later than June 4, 2018 providing an update regarding the status of the investigation. We cannot predict what actions HLC will take with respect to the designation, including whether it will have an impact on APUS's pending change of structure application. Other state attorneys general may also initiate inquiries into APEI or its subsidiaries. Based on information available to us at present, we cannot reasonably estimate a range of potential impact this inquiry might have on our financial conditions or results of operations, if any, because it is uncertain what remedies the Attorney General might ultimately seek in connection with the inquiry, if any.. Our regulatory environment and our reputation may be negatively influenced by the actions of other for-profit institutions.. Our institutions are two of a much larger number of for-profit institutions serving the postsecondary education market. In recent years, regulatory investigations and civil litigation have been commenced against several for-profit educational institutions. These investigations and lawsuits have alleged, among other things, deceptive trade practices and noncompliance with ED regulations. These allegations have attracted adverse media and social media coverage, have been the subject of federal. 67. and state legislative hearings, and have in some cases resulted in legislation or rulemaking. In some cases, institutions have ceased operations, including while under multiple government investigations. Broader allegations against the overall for-profit school sector have negatively affected public perceptions of for-profit educational institutions, including our institutions, and this trend could continue or broaden. In addition, in recent years, reports on student lending practices of various lending institutions and schools, including for-profit schools, and investigations by a number of state attorneys general, Congress and governmental agencies have led to adverse media and social media coverage of postsecondary education. Adverse media or social media coverage regarding others in our industry, or regarding us or our institutions directly, could damage our reputation, could result in lower enrollments at our institutions, lower revenue and increased expenses, and could have a negative impact on our stock price. Such allegations could also result in increased scrutiny and regulation by ED, Congress, accrediting bodies, state legislatures, state attorneys general, or other governmental authorities with respect to all for-profit institutions, including us and our institutions. For these reasons or others, not-for-profit or public educational institutions may take actions to differentiate themselves from the for-profit educational institutions, including by choosing not to enter into collaborations with for-profit institutions, including us, or by excluding for-profit institutions from membership in industry groups.. If we undergo a change in ownership or control, the Department of Education will place our institutions on provisional certification, and the terms of that provisional certification could limit our institutions' potential for growth and adversely affect our institutions' enrollment, our revenue, and results of operations.. ED's regulations provide that a change of control of a publicly traded corporation occurs if: (i) there is an event that would obligate the corporation to file a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC disclosing a change of control; or (ii) the corporation has a stockholder that owns at least 25% of the total outstanding voting stock of the corporation and is the largest stockholder of the corporation, and that stockholder ceases to own at least 25% of such stock or ceases to be the largest stockholder. A significant purchase or disposition of our voting stock could be determined by ED to be a change in ownership and control under this standard. Under the HEA, an institution whose parent undergoes a change in ownership resulting in a change of control loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and must apply to ED in order to reestablish such eligibility.. Future transactions could constitute a change in ownership or control under ED's regulations and could cause ED to place our institutions on provisional certification as required by the HEA. The conditions of provisional certification or closer review by ED could impact, among other things, our institutions' ability to add educational programs, or additional locations, our ability to acquire other institutions, or our ability to make other significant changes. In addition, if ED were to determine that our institutions were unable to meet their responsibilities while they were provisionally certified, ED could seek to revoke our institutions' certification to participate in Title IV programs with fewer due process protections than if they were fully certified. Limitations on our institutions' operations could, and the loss of our institutions' certification to participate in Title IV programs would, adversely affect our institutions' ability to grow in addition to having adverse effects on their enrollment, and our revenue and results of operations.. If regulators do not approve or delay their approval of transactions involving a change of control of our Company or of institutions that we own or acquire, our and our institutions' ability to operate could be impaired.. If we or one of our institutions experience a change of ownership or control under the standards of applicable state regulatory bodies, accrediting agencies, ED, or other regulators, we or the institution governed by such agencies must notify or seek the approval of each relevant regulatory agency. Transactions or events that constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of an institution's common stock, significant changes in the composition of an institution's Board of Directors, internal restructurings, acquisitions of institutions from other owners, or certain other transactions. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our or our institutions' failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change of control from the relevant regulatory agencies following a transaction involving a change of ownership or control could result in a suspension of operating authority, loss of accreditation, or suspension or loss of ability to participate in Title IV programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our institutions and our financial condition. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change of control from other states in which we are currently licensed or authorized could require our institutions to suspend activities in that state or otherwise impair our institutions' operations. The potential adverse effects of a change of control could influence, among other things, future decisions by us and our stockholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance, or redemption of our stock. In addition, the regulatory burdens and risks associated with a change of control also could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. 68. Certain contingents of Congress have been examining the proprietary postsecondary education sector, which could result in legislation, heightened oversight, or additional Department of Education rulemaking that may limit or condition Title IV program participation of proprietary schools in a manner that may materially and adversely affect our business.. In recent years, certain contingents of Congress have increased their focus on proprietary educational institutions. This increased focus has resulted in the introduction of various pieces of legislation, the holding of several hearings by various Congressional committees, and Congressional investigations and inquiries. We have previously incurred significant legal and other costs to respond to Congressional inquiries, and could incur significant legal and other costs to respond to any future inquiries. We cannot predict the extent to which, or whether, these hearings and investigations will result in legislation, further rulemaking affecting our participation in Title IV programs, or litigation alleging statutory violations, regulatory infractions or common law causes of action.. Congress currently is in the process of considering legislation to reauthorize the Higher Education Act of 1964, as amended, or HEA. In December 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Education and the Workforce considered and passed out of committee the Promoting Real Opportunity, Success, and Prosperity through Education Reform Act, or PROSPER Act, to reauthorize the HEA. In its current form, the PROSPER Act would make dramatic changes to the HEA by, among other things, eliminating the 90/10 Rule and regulation of gainful employment programs, and replacing current accountability metrics linked to cohort default rates with metrics linked to timely loan repayment. We cannot predict whether, in what form, or when, the two houses of Congress will reauthorize the HEA or whether, or when, the President will sign reauthorization legislation. The foregoing or other amendments to the HEA could occur as part of reauthorization, which could require us to modify our business practices and increase administrative costs, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations.. The adoption of any law or regulation that reduces funding for federal student financial aid programs or the ability of our institutions or students to participate in these programs could have a material adverse effect on our student population and revenue. Legislative action also may increase our administrative costs and require our institutions to modify their practices in order to comply with applicable requirements. Additionally, members of Congress have also from time to time encouraged ED to adopt additional regulations for participation in Title IV programs that could increase our cost of operations or expose us to additional risks.. Congressional examination of DoD oversight of tuition assistance used for distance education and proprietary institutions could result in legislative or regulatory changes that may materially and adversely affect our business.. The 90/10 Rule has been a subject of interest over the past several Congresses, which has resulted in several members of Congress introducing proposals and legislation that would modify the 90/10 Rule. One past proposal would decrease the limit from 90% to 85% and would count DoD tuition assistance and VA education benefits toward that limit. Such a proposal or other similar legislation, should it become law, could have a material adverse impact on the operations of APUS and HCN. We cannot predict the extent to which, or whether, Congressional hearings will result in legislation or further rulemaking affecting our institutions' ability to participate in DoD tuition assistance programs or Title IV programs. In the past, certain members of Congress have stated that Congress should revise the 90/10 Rule to count DoD tuition assistance and VA veterans' educational benefits toward the 90% limit. The PROSPER Act would eliminate the 90/10 Rule entirely.We cannot predict the likelihood that Congress will amend the 90/10 Rule to count DoD tuition assistance and VA education benefits toward the 90% limit or to lower the ratio to 85/15 or will eliminate the 90/10 Rule entirely, nor can we predict the likelihood that Congress or the President will take some other action to limit the use of DoD tuition assistance and VA education benefits at for-profit institutions. To the extent that any laws or regulations are adopted that limit or condition the participation of proprietary schools or distance education programs in DoD tuition assistance programs or in Title IV programs, or that limit or condition the amount of DoD tuition assistance for which for-profit schools or distance education programs are eligible to receive, our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Congress has in the past changed, and may in the future change, eligibility standards and funding levels for federal student financial aid programs, DoD tuition assistance, and other programs. Other governmental or regulatory bodies may also change similar laws or regulations relating to such programs, which could adversely affect our student population, revenue and financial condition.. Political and budgetary concerns can significantly affect Title IV programs, military tuition assistance programs, and other laws and regulations governing federal and state aid programs.. Title IV programs are made available pursuant to the provisions of the HEA, and the HEA comes up for reauthorization by Congress approximately every five to six years. Authorization of appropriations for most HEA programs is currently. 69. provided through June 30, 2018 by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017. In the past, Congress has passed short-term non-substantive extensions of the HEA pending comprehensive reauthorization legislation. Further, when Congress does not act on comprehensive reauthorization through a single piece of legislation, it may act through multiple pieces of legislation. Congress completed the most recent reauthorization through multiple pieces of legislation and may reauthorize the HEA in a piecemeal manner in the future. Congress currently is in the process of considering legislation to reauthorize the HEA. In December 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Education and the Workforce considered and passed out of committee the PROSPER Act to reauthorize the HEA. The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions has begun to hold hearings on HEA reauthorization, and the Chairman has issued a white paper including a number of policy proposals for consideration. Additionally, Congress determines the funding level for each Title IV program on an annual basis.. Future Congressional action, including in reauthorizations or appropriations acts, may result in numerous legislative changes, including those that could adversely affect the ability of our institutions to participate in Title IV programs, DoD tuition assistance programs, and the availability of such funding sources for our students. Members of Congress frequently propose legislation to alter or amend the terms under which our institutions participate in the federal student financial aid programs. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV programs or the ability of our institutions or students to participate in these programs could materially harm our institutions' business. A reduction in government funding levels could lead to lower enrollments at our institutions and require our institutions to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for their students. Lower student enrollments at our institutions or their inability to arrange alternative sources of funding could adversely affect our financial condition. Congressional action may also require our institutions to modify their practices in ways that could result in increased administrative and regulatory expenses.. We are not in a position to predict whether any legislation will be passed by Congress or signed into law in the future. The reallocation of funding among Title IV programs, material changes in the requirements for participation in such programs, or the substitution of materially different Title IV programs could reduce the ability of certain students to finance their education at our institutions and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. Our institutions' failure to comply with ED's cash management regulations may result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs.. On October 30, 2015, ED published final regulations to amend ED's cash management regulations, which we refer to as the Cash Management Regulations. The Cash Management Regulations went into effect on July 1, 2016. Among other topics, the Cash Management Regulations address arrangements between postsecondary institutions and financial account providers to disburse Title IV program credit balances to students, including through the use of debit or prepaid cards. The Cash Management Regulations require institutions to establish a process to facilitate student choice in how students receive Title IV program federal student financial aid credit balances; limit the personally identifiable information about students that may be shared with financial account providers; and require institutions to obtain student consent before opening an account in the student's name. Under the Cash Management Regulations, an institution that has entered into an arrangement with a financial account provider must mitigate certain fees incurred by Title IV aid recipients, and certain types of fees are prohibited. The Cash Management Regulations require that contracts governing arrangements with financial account providers be publicly disclosed and evaluated in light of the best financial interests of students. The Cash Management Regulations also make other changes to requirements for the institutional administration of Title IV programs, including by clarifying how previously passed coursework is treated for Title IV eligibility purposes, altering the requirements for converting clock hours to credit hours, and updating other provisions in ED's cash management regulations. For example, the Cash Management Regulations establish a requirement that institutions participating in the Title IV programs under the reimbursement or heightened cash monitoring payment methods must pay any credit balance due to a student before seeking reimbursement or a request for funds, respectively. The Cash Management Regulations specify the circumstances under which an institution may include the cost of books and supplies as part of institutional tuition and fees charged to a student, such as if the institution has made arrangements with publishers to obtain books at below-market rates or if books or electronic course materials are not available elsewhere. The Cash Management Regulations also expand the group of students to whom an institution must provide a way to obtain or purchase, by the seventh day of a payment period, the books and supplies applicable to the payment period. Previously, an institution was required to provide such assistance only to students who receive Pell Grants, but under the Cash Management Regulations, an institution will be required to provide such assistance to any student who is eligible for Title IV program aid. Our institutions utilize a third-party servicer to provide services related to the disbursement of Title IV financial aid credit balance refunds. If any of our institutions violates the Cash Management Regulations, ED may find that the institution lacks the administrative capability, fiscal responsibility, or system of internal controls required to participate in the Title IV programs. If one of our institutions is found not to have satisfied ED's requirements, it could be limited in its access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which would limit our potential for growth and adversely affect our enrollment, revenue, and results of operations.. 70. Recent and future regulatory developments may adversely impact our institutions' enrollment, financial condition, results of operations, expenses, and cash flows.. ED has in the past published and in the future may publish additional rules that affect our institutions. For example, on October 30, 2015, ED published final regulations that introduced a new income-contingent repayment plan, called the Revised Pay As You Earn repayment plan, or REPAYE plan, which became available in December 2015 to all Direct Loan student borrowers regardless of when the borrower took out the loans. Under the REPAYE plan, Direct Loan borrowers may cap their loan payments at 10% of their monthly incomes. The regulations also expanded the circumstances under which an institution could challenge or appeal a draft or final cohort default rate, beginning in February 2017.. In addition to publishing rules, ED has in the past and may in the future take other actions that affect our institutions. For example, in September 2015, ED publicly released its College Scorecard website. Among other characteristics, the College Scorecard allows users to search for schools based upon programs offered, location, size, tax status, mission, and religious affiliation. However, we do not believe the College Scorecard's method for calculating results appropriately indicates APUS's graduation rate because the College Scorecard's graduation rate only includes the performance of first time, full-time undergraduate students who represent less than approximately 1% of all APUS students. Furthermore, substantially all of the other College Scorecard measures are based on students who are recipients of Title IV program funds; such students represent a minority of APUS's students. We cannot predict the extent to which the College Scorecard has impacted or may impact our institution's enrollments, reputation, or operating results, including if students exclude our institutions from consideration because of the College Scorecard's presentation of our graduation rate, the focus on tax status and our status as a for-profit business, or because of other factors. In October 2017, ED announced that it would publish for the first time completion data for part-time and non-first-time students, which will provide additional information about institutions' performance.. We cannot predict the nature of any future rulemakings, actions or interpretations that may be implemented or adopted by ED. However, these and future regulatory developments may adversely impact our institutions' enrollments, financial condition, results of operations, expenses, and cash flows.. Risks Related to Our Business. DoD's revised MOU includes terms and conditions that impose extensive regulatory requirements on APUS with respect to participation in DoD tuition assistance programs.. Under a DoD final rule, each institution participating in DoD tuition assistance programs is required to sign an MOU outlining certain commitments and agreements between the institution and DoD prior to accepting funds from DoD tuition assistance programs. In 2014, DoD promulgated new regulations and institutions were required to sign a new MOU, which we refer to as the 2014 MOU, in order to continue to participate in DoD tuition assistance programs. The 2014 MOU added requirements, many of which are focused on the manner in which institutions interact with service members. For more information about the requirements imposed by the 2014 MOU, see \"Regulatory Environment - Department of Defense\" in this Annual Report. We cannot predict precisely how DoD will interpret and enforce these requirements or what type of immediate sanctions, if any, will be implemented before an institution loses the ability to participate in DoD tuition assistance programs for failure to comply with the 2014 MOU. We believe that DoD may also impose sanctions other than denying an institution the ability to participate in the tuition assistance programs, including suspending an institution from enrolling new students in tuition assistance programs, limiting access to military installations, subjecting institutions to heightened compliance oversight, or otherwise limiting an institution's ability to participate in tuition assistance programs or restricting enrollment of students. If we fail to comply with the requirements of the 2014 MOU or any successor MOU, we will not be able to participate in DoD tuition assistance programs, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business could be harmed if our institutions experience a disruption in their ability to process Title IV financial aid.. We collected a substantial portion of our fiscal year 2017 consolidated revenue from receipt of Title IV financial aid program funds. Any processing disruptions by ED, by our institutions, or by third-party service providers may impact the ability of our institutions' students to obtain Title IV financial aid on a timely basis. If our institutions experience a disruption in their ability to process Title IV financial aid, either because of administrative challenges on their part or the part of their vendors, or the inability of ED to process Title IV funds on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our institutions' business and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Changes our institutions may make to their operations to enhance their ability to identify and enroll students who are likely to succeed and to improve the student experience may adversely affect our institutions' enrollment, growth rate, profitability, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. 71. In order to improve the learning experience of our students and to attract students who are likely to persist in our institutions' programs, we have identified, and continue to work to identify potential changes and initiatives that we believe will more effectively attract and enroll college-ready students, support those students and help improve those student's educational outcomes, including through faculty engagement initiatives and co-curricular initiatives to increase the level of engagement and collaboration in the classroom and strengthen the bond between APUS and its students. We have implemented or begun to implement some of these changes. In April 2017, APUS continued to strengthen its verification process by implementing new procedures for prospective non-military students, an effort that originated in April 2015 with the implementation of a requirement for prospective students to complete a free, noncredit admissions assessment. APUS has made multiple changes to the assessment process since its original implementation and may further modify it in the future in order to better identify college-ready students. For example, in July 2017 APUS implemented a process requiring enhanced verification of prospective non-military students' prior transcripts.. Additional initiatives may include the following:. • further changing admissions standards and requirements;. • altering the admissions process and procedures;. • implementing more stringent satisfactory academic progress standards;. • changing tuition costs and payment options;. • experimenting with additional CBE programs and other alternative delivery methods; and. • altering our institutions' marketing programs to target the appropriate prospective students.. These initiatives may adversely impact our institutions' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the near term. These initiatives require significant time, energy and resources. We may not succeed in achieving our objectives due to organizational, operational, regulatory, or other constraints. If our efforts are not successful, we may experience reduced enrollment, increased expense, or other impacts on our business that materially and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Even if these initiatives successfully lead to the identification and enrollment of students who are likely to succeed and improving student experience, they could result in adverse impacts on APUS enrollments. Due to the many factors that can impact enrollments, we may not appropriately identify the cause of any adverse impacts, and therefore may not be able to appropriately modify our initiatives.. We have announced an organizational realignment, and challenges encountered due to the realignment may cause strategic or operational challenges and adversely impact us.. On July 1, 2016, Dr. Powell, the then-current provost of APUS, assumed the Presidency of APUS in anticipation of an organizational realignment. Dr. Wallace E. Boston, who had been serving as the President of APUS and the CEO of APEI, remained in his position as CEO of APEI, providing strategic and leadership support to APUS, HCN, and other APEI ventures. During 2016, we invested capital and human resources in the transition and planned realignment, as well as in changes to our systems and training of employees, among other things. HLC, as the institutional accreditor for APUS, requested that APUS submit an application to enable HLC to determine whether APUS's proposal to enter into a shared-services model with APEI constitutes a change in organization or structure that requires HLC's prior approval. On December 22, 2016, APUS submitted the requested change of structure application.. HLC is currently reviewing APUS's application and as part of the review process conducted an on-site visit to APUS in early May 2017. On June 26, 2017, HLC notified APUS that HLC has delayed completing and issuing a report of its on-site visit because HLC staff believes that HLC's Criteria for Accreditation and related policies do not provide an explicit frame of reference for how the Criteria for Accreditation should be applied to a shared-services model between an accredited institution and a related entity. On July 7, 2017, HLC notified APUS that at its June 29, 2017 meeting the HLC Board of Trustees authorized the commencement of a process to develop a framework for applying the Criteria of Accreditation to such shared-services models through HLC's Change of Control, Structure or Organization process. HLC indicated that members of the HLC Board of Trustees and HLC staff would present a proposed framework to the full HLC Board of Trustees for its consideration at its November 2017 meeting. HLC indicated that APUS will have an opportunity to update its application after a framework is approved, and HLC staff will issue its report after reviewing any such updates. In November 2017, HLC notified APUS that the HLC Board of Trustees had adopted new guidelines for review of shared services arrangements, which were effective immediately, and invited APUS to submit updates to the application to reflect the new guidelines. In December 2017, APUS requested that HLC staff continue to suspend temporarily its review of the change in structure application and schedule consideration of the application for the June 2018 HLC Board of Trustees meeting, contingent upon timely prior submission of updates to the application. HLC had planned to visit APUS in February 2017 as part of a standard comprehensive evaluation. However, as a result of the change-of-structure application process, HLC postponed that comprehensive evaluation until the third quarter of 2018.. 72. We are unable to predict whether HLC will approve APUS's change of structure application and whether such approval will be subject to limitations or conditions. If HLC does not approve the realignment, imposes limitations or conditions on the realignment, takes longer than expected to take action with respect to the realignment, or otherwise sanctions APUS, we could incur increased costs, fail to realize the efficiencies that we expect and incur additional strategic or operational challenges.. Effective October 15, 2017, Dr. Powell retired from her role as President of APUS. Dr. Boston was appointed Interim President of APUS until a permanent replacement is appointed.. As with any leadership or operational change, each of the implementation of the planned realignment and the search and appointment of a new President for APUS could lead to strategic and operational challenges, distractions of management from other key initiatives, inefficiencies or increased costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. As part of our business strategy, we have entered into, and may enter into or seek to enter into, business combinations and acquisitions that may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention.. We may seek to enter into business combinations or acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including:. • difficulties consolidating operations and integrating information technology and other systems, as well as the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures;. • distraction of management's attention from normal business operations during the acquisition and integration processes;. • inability to obtain, or delay in obtaining, approval of the acquisition from the necessary regulatory agencies, or the imposition of operating restrictions or a letter of credit requirement on us or on the acquired institution;. • challenges relating to conforming non-compliant financial reporting procedures to those required of a subsidiary of a U.S. reporting company, including procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;. • expenses associated with the integration efforts; and. • unidentified issues not discovered in the due diligence process, including legal contingencies.. Any inability to integrate completed acquisitions in an efficient and timely manner could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Further, many acquisitions result in the acquirer recording goodwill. If any acquisitions for which we record goodwill are not successful or experience challenges, that goodwill may become impaired and have an adverse impact on our financial condition. For example, we recorded a pretax, non-cash charge of $4.7 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 to reduce the carrying value of our goodwill as a result of a determination that the fair value of HCN was less than its carrying value.. Our acquisition of an educational institution would also likely be considered a change in ownership and control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards, as in the HCN acquisition. For such an acquisition, we may need approval from ED, applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies, and possibly other regulatory bodies, a number of which can only be requested after completion of the acquisition. Our inability to obtain such approvals with respect to a completed acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without a productive result. In addition, future acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of securities or could require use of substantial portions of our available cash, as in the HCN acquisition, or issuances of debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition.. We have limited experience in making investments in other entities, and any such investments may not result in strategic benefits for our business or could expose us to other risks.. To assist us in achieving elements of our business strategy or to further develop our business capabilities, from time to time we will consider and may pursue strategic investments and acquisitions. These transactions could include, among other things, investments in, partnerships or joint ventures with, or the acquisition of, other schools, service providers or education technology related companies, among other types of entities. Investing in another entity requires expertise in evaluating another entity's business and identifying strategic benefits of a potential investment in such entity, among other expertise. These types of investments involve significant challenges and risks, including that the investment does not advance our business strategy, that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we acquire unknown liabilities, or that management's attention is diverted from our core business. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition. Any investments in other. 73. entities may also subject us to the operating and financial risks of such entities, and we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of such entities.. Since 2012, we have made minority investments in entities in which we do not have sole control, which present risks in addition to those that apply to other investments or acquisitions. These investments include our investment in a holding company that acquired and now operates New Horizons Worldwide, Inc., or New Horizons, our investment in preferred stock of Fidelis Education, Inc., or Fidelis Education, our investment in preferred stock of Second Avenue Software, Inc., or Second Avenue, and our investment in preferred stock of RallyPoint, an online social network for members of the military. Although we have the right to representation on the Board of Directors of the holding company of New Horizons, the Board of Directors of Fidelis Education, and the Board of Directors of Second Avenue, and have observer rights for the Board of Directors of RallyPoint, we do not have the ability to control the policies, management or affairs of these entities, and generally we would not have that ability in any minority investment in an entity. The interests of persons who control the entities in which we have invested and may invest may differ from our interests, and they may cause such entities to take actions that are not in our best interest, and we may become involved in disputes with such persons. Our inability to control entities in which we make minority investments could negatively affect our ability to realize the strategic benefits of those investments.. We have made these minority investments to realize strategic benefits for our business, rather than to generate income or capital gains from these investments, and we anticipate that we would make future minority investments for similar purposes. We cannot ensure that we will realize any strategic benefits from these investments in the near-term or at all. To the extent that the strategic benefits of any investment are not timely realized, or the investment otherwise underperforms, we may wish to dispose of the investment. Because our interests in entities in which we have made minority investments, such as New Horizons, Fidelis Education, Second Avenue, and RallyPoint are highly illiquid and not traded in any public market, we may not be able to timely dispose of these interests, or may have to sell at less than our carrying value. Further, should the value of these investments become impaired, we may be required to reduce the carrying value of these investments. For example, we recorded a pretax, non-cash charge of $2.7 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 to reduce the carrying value of certain minority investments to their fair value.. Our inability to dispose of our interest in such an entity, or a reduction in the carrying value of such an entity on our books, would negatively affect our operating results.. Efforts to diversify our business outside of the traditional areas served by our institutions may provide strategic and operational challenges that we are not prepared or able to address.. As we seek opportunities to expand our business and serve markets beyond those traditionally served by our institutions, we may encounter strategic and operational challenges different from those within our existing institutions. For example, our systems and infrastructure may not be able to respond quickly enough to support new business opportunities, or we may not otherwise be able to address the strategic or operational differences of these new opportunities. If we are unable to successfully capitalize on new opportunities, the value of our common stock may decline over time, including because of the challenges of growing our core business under our current model.. To address competitive pressures in the market, replace older systems or provide enhanced functionality, we will need to continue to invest, and may need to increase our level of investment in, our institutions' technology, which may place a strain on resources that could adversely affect our systems, controls, and operating efficiency, and those of our institutions.. We believe we will need to invest capital, time, and resources to update our institutions' technology in response to competitive pressures in the marketplace, including increased demands for interactive solutions, access from multiple platforms, and augmented reality, to update older systems and to enhance functionality. We would likely have to make similar investments to integrate the technology systems of any business we may acquire in the future. Our efforts to do so may not be successful, may cost more than expected, may increase our level of spending, or may otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. As a result of unsuccessful development efforts, or as a result of replacing outdated technology, software or other technology related assets, we may have assets that become impaired. For example, we recorded a pretax, non-cash charge of $4.0 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 to write off certain student course registration software development.. If we are unable to increase the capacity of our institutions' resources or update their resources appropriately, their ability to handle future growth, to attract or retain students, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Similarly, even if we are able to increase the capacity of our institutions' resources and update their resources appropriately, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by an increased level of spending.. 74. We have continued to experience increases in our institutions' administrative expenses and have previously experienced increases in bad debt expense.. After APUS began participating in Title IV programs, a significant portion of its growth was attributable to students using funds from those programs. As a result, APUS experienced a change in the composition of its student body, which has resulted, and will continue to result in a need to provide a greater level of services to its students. The HCN acquisition has further changed the composition of our student body, increasing the number of students using Title IV program funds, as well as adding students who attend courses at physical campuses. These changes, the addition of HCN's physical campuses in November 2013 and January 2013, increases in expenditures in financial aid processes, increases in capital expenditures on administrative facilities and for technology required to support students at APUS, as well as efforts to strengthen our leadership, control and governance structures, have led to increased costs and expenses in a variety of areas.. While bad debt for each of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 decreased from the level of bad debt for each of the immediately prior years, over the previous several years we experienced increases in our bad debt expense, particularly at APUS. We believe our previous increases in bad debt expense were primarily driven by an increase in the number of students using Title IV program funds at APUS, operational policies, processing challenges, and collections management challenges primarily related to students who did not complete courses. In September 2015, APUS changed the method by which it disburses Title IV program funds from a single disbursement method to a multiple disbursement method for first-time APUS undergraduate students. While this change may have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on enrollment, APUS made this change in order to potentially lower bad debt expense and to reduce the attractiveness of our programs to students who are seeking to take improper advantage of the Title IV programs. While our bad debt expense declined at APUS during 2016 and 2017, we have no assurance that the changes that were made caused the reduction or that we will be able to further reduce bad debt. If we are unable to make appropriate improvements, or if our improvements are not as effective as anticipated, our bad debt expense could again increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We rely on third-party vendors whose service may be of lower quality than ours, whose responsiveness may be less timely than ours, and whose compliance practices may increase our operational and compliance risk.. We rely on third-party vendors to provide certain services to our institutions and their students primarily related to information technology services and financial aid processing. While we monitor and assess the service of these vendors, it is possible that the quality of their service and the timeliness of their responses may be less than the service and responsiveness that we or our institutions would provide. These third-party vendors may lack adequate business continuity planning. Using third-party vendors increases compliance risk that the vendors may not adequately protect personal information regarding our institutions' students and their families, or that they may not comply with applicable federal or state regulations applicable to our institutions' business. Further, transitioning from existing vendors or from in-house processes to new providers or from third-party providers to in-house processes involves inherent risks, including the risk of significant disruptions of integral processes. In the event third-party vendors fail to provide services, lack adequate continuity planning, or fail to provide necessary implementation or transition services, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. If our institutions fail to maintain adequate systems and processes to detect and prevent fraudulent activity in student enrollment and financial aid, our institutions may lose the ability to participate in Title IV programs or Department of Defense tuition assistance programs, or have participation in these programs conditioned or limited.. Institutions offering online education, including APUS, have experienced fraudulent activity related to Title IV program funds. Grants and loans to students under Title IV programs are primarily awarded on the basis of financial need, generally defined as the difference between the cost of attending an institution and the amount a student can be expected to contribute to that cost. In order to account for living expenses and other costs that our students may reasonably incur in the context of pursuing a degree or certificate, the cost of attending each of our institutions, in most cases, is an amount that exceeds the cost of its tuition. While some students elect to receive grants and loans that cover only the cost of tuition and fees, others elect to receive amounts up to the full cost of attendance. When one of our institutions receives Title IV program funds on a student's behalf, it credits those funds to the student's account. If a student has elected to receive funds in excess of the cost of tuition and fees, a credit balance is generated, and the institution must pay that credit balance to the student unless the student has authorized the institution to hold the credit balance or take other permissible action with respect to the credit balance. The availability of Title IV program funds, including any credit balance payment, is an important part of enabling some students to pursue a degree or certificate. However, some individuals seek to take advantage of Title IV programs by enrolling for the purpose of obtaining funds they may receive directly through a credit balance payment.. 75. Our institutions, in particular APUS, have been the target of fraudulent activity related to Title IV program funds, as well as other fraudulent activities. We believe the risk of outside parties attempting to perpetrate fraud in connection with the award and disbursement of Title IV program funds at APUS, including as a result of identity theft, is heightened due to its being an exclusively online education provider and its relatively low tuition. Our institutions must maintain systems and processes to identify and prevent fraudulent applications for enrollment and financial aid. We cannot be certain that our institutions' systems and processes will continue to be adequate in the face of increasingly sophisticated fraud schemes, or that we will be able to expand such systems and processes at a pace consistent with the changing nature of these fraud schemes.. ED requires institutions that participate in Title IV programs to refer to the ED Office of the Inspector General, or OIG, credible information about fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs, and in the past our institutions have referred to the OIG information with respect to potential fraud by applicants and students. If the systems and processes that our institutions have established to detect and prevent fraud are inadequate, ED may find that our institutions do not satisfy ED's \"administrative capability\" requirements. If our institutions fail to satisfy the administrative capability requirements, ED may require the repayment of Title IV program funds, transfer our institutions from the \"advance\" system of payment of Title IV program funds to heightened cash monitoring status, or to the \"reimbursement\" system of payment, place our institutions on provisional certification status, or commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend, or terminate our institutions' participation in Title IV programs, which would limit our institutions' potential for growth and adversely affect our institutions' enrollment, revenue, and results of operations. In addition, our institutions' ability to participate in Title IV programs and DoD tuition assistance programs is conditioned on maintaining accreditation by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the Secretary of Education. The significance of accreditation is described more fully above in \"Regulatory Environment - Accreditation.\" Any significant failure to adequately detect fraudulent activity related to student enrollment and financial aid could cause our institutions to fail to meet their accreditors' standards. Furthermore, under the HEOA, accrediting agencies that evaluate institutions offering online programs, like APUS's programs and HCN's online Registered Nurse to Bachelor of Science in Nursing completion program, must require such institutions to have processes through which the institution establishes that a student who registers for such a program is the same student who participates in and receives credit for the program. Failure to meet the requirements of our institutions' accrediting agencies could result in the loss of accreditation of one or more of our institutions, which could result in their loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, DoD tuition assistance programs, or both.. We may have unanticipated tax liabilities that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We and our institutions are subject to multiple types of taxes in the U.S. and may be subject to taxation in the future in various foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax accruals involves various judgments, and therefore the ultimate tax determination is subject to uncertainty. In addition, changes in tax laws, regulations, or rules, or application of state sales taxes, may adversely affect our future reported financial results, may impact the way in which we conduct our business, or may increase the risk of audit by the Internal Revenue Service or other tax authorities. Although we believe our tax accruals are reasonable, the final determination of tax returns under review or returns that may be reviewed in the future and any related litigation could result in tax liabilities that materially differ from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. In addition, an increasing number of states are adopting new laws or changing their interpretation of existing laws regarding the apportionment factors used for state corporate income tax purposes in a manner that could result in a larger proportion of our income being taxed by the states in which we are required to file state tax returns. These legislative and administrative changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. We rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations and to fund acquisitions and certain investments.. We rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations and to fund acquisitions and certain investments. We conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries, and as of December 31, 2017, had no significant assets other than cash, the capital stock of our respective subsidiaries, and assets related to several investments. As a result, we rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations and to fund acquisitions and investments. The ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make distributions or other payments to us depends on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their respective jurisdictions of organization, regulatory and accreditation requirements, agreements entered into by those operating subsidiaries, and the covenants of any future obligations that we or our subsidiaries may incur.. 76. Having students physically present on HCN's campuses may result in threats to student safety and other issues.. We manage and monitor on-the-ground operations at five campuses where HCN students attend courses and participate in educational activities. The presence of students on physical campuses requires us to consider and respond to issues related to student safety, security, and violence. Failure to prevent, or adequately respond to, threats to student and employee safety or other problems could harm our reputation, causing enrollment and revenue to decline, or could result in costly and resource-intensive litigation.. Natural disasters or other extraordinary events may cause us to close one or more of HCN's campuses or may cause HCN's enrollment and revenue to decline.. HCN may experience business interruptions resulting from natural disasters, inclement weather, transit disruptions or other events in one or more of the cities in Ohio in which it operates. These events could cause HCN to close one or more campuses temporarily or permanently. For example, a regional or national outbreak of influenza or other illness easily spread by human contact could cause us to close one or more of HCN's campuses for an extended period of time. These types of events could affect student recruiting opportunities in those locations, causing enrollment and revenue to decline.. The loss of any key member of our management team may impair our ability to operate effectively and may harm our business.. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business. While we have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, and our Chief Financial Officer, we do not have employment agreements with other executives or personnel, and the employment agreements that we do have do not prevent our executives from voluntarily ceasing to work for us.. If we are unable to attract and retain management, faculty, administrators, and skilled personnel, our business and growth prospects could be severely harmed, and changes in management could cause disruption and uncertainty.. We must attract and retain highly qualified management, faculty, administrators, and skilled personnel to our institutions. Competition for hiring these individuals is intense, especially with regard to faculty in specialized areas, and executives with relevant industry expertise. We have had a number of other executive officers retire or otherwise depart our Company over the last several years, and we also continue to undergo an organizational realignment. For instance, effective October 15, 2017, Dr. Powell retired from her role as President of APUS. Dr. Boston was appointed Interim President of APUS until a permanent replacement is appointed. In the fourth quarter of 2016, we also hired a new provost and a new executive responsible for enrollment management at APUS. Even with these hires, we may need to continue to strengthen our management team to support the operations of our institutions. If we fail to attract new management, faculty, administrators, or skilled personnel or fail to retain and motivate our existing management, faculty, administrators, and skilled personnel, our institutions and our ability to serve our students and expand our programs could be severely harmed, and changes in management could disrupt our business and cause uncertainty. ED's incentive payment rule may also affect the manner in which we attract, retain, and motivate new and existing employees, as described more fully below in \"Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Industry.\". Our limited ability to obtain exclusive proprietary rights and protect our intellectual property, as well as disputes we may encounter from time to time with third parties regarding our use of their intellectual property, could harm our operations and prospects.. In the ordinary course of business, our institutions develop intellectual property of many kinds that is or will be the subject of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, domain names, agreements, and other registrations. Our institutions rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use course content developed by faculty members and other third-party content experts.. We cannot ensure that any measures we and our institutions take to protect our intellectual property or obtain rights to the intellectual property of others will be adequate, or that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our institutions' proprietary rights in the United States or foreign jurisdictions, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate the proprietary rights of our institutions. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, third parties may attempt to develop competing programs or copy aspects of our institutions' curriculum, online resource material, quality management, and other proprietary content. Any such attempt, if successful, could adversely affect our institutions' business. Protecting these types of intellectual property rights can be difficult, particularly as it relates to the development by our institutions' competitors of competing courses and programs.. 77. Our institutions may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and may not prevail in these disputes. Third parties may raise a claim against our institutions alleging an infringement or violation of their intellectual property. Some third-party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for our institutions to conduct operations in such a way as to avoid disputes regarding those intellectual property rights. Any such dispute could subject our institutions to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether that dispute has merit. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and our institutions may be required to alter the content of their courses or pay monetary damages, which may be significant.. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of course materials posted online for course discussions.. In some instances, our institutions' faculty members or students may post various articles or other third-party content online in course discussion boards or in other venues. The laws governing the fair use of these third-party materials are imprecise and adjudicated on a case-by-case basis, which makes it challenging to adopt and implement appropriately balanced institutional policies governing these practices. We and our institutions may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material posted online. Third parties may raise claims against us and our institutions for the unauthorized duplication of this material. Any such claims could subject us and our institutions to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether the claims have merit. Our institutions' faculty members or students could also post classified material on course discussion boards, which could expose us to civil and criminal liability and harm our institutions' reputations and relationships with members of the military and government. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to pay monetary damages and our institutions may be required to alter the content of their courses.. Legal proceedings, particularly class action lawsuits, may require human and financial resources, distract our management and negatively affect our reputation and operating results.. From time to time, we and our institutions have been and may be involved in various legal proceedings. In recent years, we have observed an increase in litigation brought against for-profit schools, including class actions brought by students and prospective students based on alleged misrepresentations about a school's programs, and an increase in \"qui tam\" lawsuits, which are described above under the heading \"Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Industry.\" For example, in November 2013, a putative class action was brought against HCN relating to a time period prior to our ownership. The lawsuit asserted claims for fraud and fraudulent inducement, negligent misrepresentation, breach of implied-in-fact contract, promissory estoppel, unjust enrichment, and violation of the Ohio Consumer Sales Practices Act. While HCN admitted to no wrongdoing in the eventual settlement agreement and the case was dismissed with prejudice after the payment of a de minimis settlement, on December 4, 2015, ED sent HCN a letter informing HCN that ED had determined to fine HCN $27,500 based on ED's finding that HCN had substantially misrepresented its programmatic accreditation status during a time period prior to our ownership of HCN. HCN informed ED in a letter that it disagreed with ED's findings but would pay the fine in order to resolve promptly the matter and to enable ED to finalize its review of the application for a change in ownership. In the future, not all claims may be as easily resolved. The significant human and financial resources required to investigate and respond to claims brought in any future litigation may distract management's attention from operating our business or lead to larger payments or liabilities, including adverse regulatory action, and, as a result, negatively affect our operating results.. We may need additional capital in the future, but there is no assurance that funds will be available on acceptable terms.. We may need additional capital in the future for various reasons, including to finance business acquisitions and investments in technology or to achieve growth or fund other business initiatives, but there is no assurance that capital will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. Additionally, any securities issued to raise capital may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If adequate capital is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, our and our institutions' ability to expand, develop or enhance services or products, or respond to competitive pressures, will be limited.. Our access to capital markets and sourcing for additional funding to expand or operate our business is subject to market conditions. Credit concerns regarding the proprietary postsecondary education industry as a whole also may impede our access to capital markets. If we are unable to obtain needed capital on terms acceptable to us, we may have to limit strategic initiatives or take other actions that materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 78. Economic and market conditions, including changes in interest rates, could affect our enrollments, placement and persistence rates and cohort default rates in the U.S. or abroad.. Our business has been and may in the future be adversely affected by a general economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or abroad. Our institutions derive a significant portion of their revenue from Title IV programs, which include student loans with interest rates subsidized by the federal government. Additionally, some students finance their education through private loans that are not government subsidized. Historically low interest rates have created a favorable borrowing environment for students. However, if interest rates increase or Congress decreases the amount of funding available for Title IV programs, our students may have to pay higher interest rates on their Title IV program loans and private loans. Any future increase in applicable interest rates could result in a corresponding increase in educational costs to our existing and prospective students, which could result in a reduction in our enrollment. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students' repayment of their education loans. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact our eligibility to participate in some Title IV programs, which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition.. Adverse economic developments that affect the United States could also result in a reduction in the number of jobs available to our graduates and lower salaries being offered in connection with available employment, which, in turn, could result in declines in our placement and persistence rates. In addition, adverse economic developments could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former students to repay student loans, which could increase our institutions' student loan cohort default rates and require increased time, attention, and resources to manage these defaults. Our institutions' students are able to borrow Title IV loans in excess of their tuition and fees. The excess is received by such students as a credit balance refund. However, if a student withdraws, our institutions must return any unearned Title IV funds, which may include a portion of the credit balance refund, and must seek to collect from the student any resulting amounts owed to the institution. A protracted economic slowdown could negatively impact such students' ability to satisfy debts to the institution, including debts that result from returns of unearned Title IV amounts. As a result, the amount of Title IV funds we would have to return without repayment from our institutions' students could increase, and our financial results could suffer.. If we are unable to successfully pursue HCN's program initiatives and expansions, including opening new HCN campuses and increasing online education, our future growth may be impaired.. The success of HCN will depend on our ability to maintain and increase student enrollments in HCN's programs and grow HCN's on-campus and online program offerings. As part of our strategy, we intend to open new campuses for HCN, such as the new campus in suburban Toledo, Ohio that began operations in early 2017. Such actions require us to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals. In addition, adding new locations may require significant financial investments, human resource capabilities, and new clinical placement relationships. If we are unable to, or suffer any delay in our ability to, obtain appropriate approvals, attract additional students to new campus locations, offer programs at new campuses in a cost-effective manner, identify appropriate clinical placements, or otherwise manage effectively the operations of newly established campuses, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. At this time, because HCN is certified to participate in the Title IV programs on a provisional basis based on the change in ownership and control of HCN that resulted from our acquisition of it, HCN must apply to ED and wait for approval before it can award and disburse Title IV program funds to students enrolled at new HCN locations at which HCN offers 50% or more of an eligible program, or before it can award Title IV program funds to students enrolled in new degree or certificate programs. Similarly, based on ED's decision to withdraw and terminate recognition of the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools, or ACICS, HCN is also subject to certain conditions and restrictions. For more information about the conditions and restrictions imposed by ED, see \"Regulatory Environment - Accreditation\" in this Annual Report. If HCN fails to comply with the conditions and restrictions imposed by ED, or if HCN fails to obtain accreditation from another recognized accrediting agency, by June 12, 2018, 18 months after the date of the Secretary's decision to withdraw recognition from ACICS, HCN will lose the ability to participate in the Title IV programs.. Outside Ohio, other states' regulatory bodies have regulations that apply to HCN programs. For example, a number of states may require that we obtain additional authorizations for HCN students enrolled in the online Registered Nurse to Bachelor of Science in Nursing completion program to participate in practicum courses in those states, even where HCN has no other physical presence in the state or where HCN is authorized for such placements under the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement, or SARA. These types of provisions may make it more difficult to offer online education programs in those states. The inability to expand efficiently or successfully existing programs, pursue new program initiatives and add new campuses would harm our ability to grow the business and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition.. 79. System disruptions and security breaches to our online computer networks, technology infrastructure, or online classroom infrastructure, or to the networks, infrastructure and systems of third parties, could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and could damage our reputation, limiting our ability to attract and retain students.. The performance and reliability of our and our institutions' networks and technology infrastructure, including those of third parties systems we use, is critical to our institutions' reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could interrupt our or our institutions' ability to operate and could result in the unavailability of our institutions' online classrooms (which is particularly relevant to APUS), preventing students from accessing their courses and adversely affecting our results of operations.. Our systems at APUS, particularly those proprietary information systems and processes that we refer to as Partnership at a DistanceTM, or PAD, have been predominantly developed in-house, with limited support from outside vendors. To the extent that we have utilized third-party vendors to provide certain software products for our systems, we have generally needed to integrate those products into, and ensure that they function with, PAD. We continuously work on upgrades to PAD, and our employees devote substantial time to its development and to the successful integration of third-party products into PAD. To the extent that we face system disruptions or malfunctions with PAD, we may not have the capacity to address such disruptions or malfunctions with our internal resources, and we may not be able to identify outside contractors with expertise relevant to our custom system.. Our institutions' technology infrastructure, and the technology infrastructure of our third-party vendors, could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, cyber-attacks, terrorist activities, and telecommunications failures. Our computer networks, and the networks of our third-party vendors, may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, ransom-ware, computer viruses, and other security problems. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or personal information about our students or employees, or could cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. If we or third parties with access to our systems, or to our proprietary information or personal information about our students or employees, experience security breaches in the future, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches, which could include litigation brought by affected individuals or other parties, the impositions of penalties, disruption to our operations, and damage to our reputation.. APUS uses external vendors to perform security assessments on a periodic basis to review and assess its security. We utilize this information to audit ourselves to ensure that we are adequately monitoring the security of our technology infrastructure. However, we cannot ensure that these security assessments and audits will protect our computer networks against the threat of security breaches. Similarly, although we require our third-party vendors to maintain a level of security that is acceptable to us and work closely with our third-party vendors to address potential and actual security concerns and attacks, we cannot ensure that we and our systems and proprietary information or personal information about our students or employees will be protected against the threat of security attacks on our third-party vendors that affect our systems or such information. System disruptions and security breaches to our online computer networks, technology infrastructure, or online classroom infrastructure, or to the networks, infrastructures and systems of third parties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations.. Possession and use of personal information in our institutions' operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. Our institutions or, in some cases, certain third-party vendors hired by our institutions, collect, use, and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our students and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data, and financial account information. Our institutions also collect and maintain personal information of employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain third-party vendors, including our third-party servicers and information technology vendors. Although our institutions use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our institutions' operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could restrict the use of personal information and require notification of data breaches. We cannot guarantee that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A violation of any laws or regulations relating to the collection or use of personal information could result in the imposition of fines or lawsuits against us or our institutions. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. A breach, theft, or loss of personal information regarding our institutions' students and their families or our institutions' employees that is held by our institutions or third-party vendors could have a material adverse effect on our. 80. institutions' reputations and results of operations and result in legal actions by regulators, state attorneys general, and private litigants, any of which actions could divert management's attention and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We face an ever-increasing number of threats to our computer systems, including unauthorized activity and access, malicious penetration, system viruses, ransomware and other malicious code and organized cyber-attacks, which could breach our security and disrupt our systems. These risks increase when we make changes to our information technology systems or implement new ones. Our size makes us a prominent target for hacking and other cyber-attacks within the education industry. From time to time we experience security events and incidents, and these reflect an increasing level of malicious sophistication, organization, and innovation. We have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources to the security of our computer systems, but they may still be vulnerable to these threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations, perhaps over an extended period of time prior to detection. As a result, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to protect against the threat of or alleviate problems caused by these system disruptions and security breaches. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Although we maintain insurance in respect of these types of events, there is no assurance that available insurance proceeds would be adequate to compensate us for damages sustained due to these events.. Failure to comply with privacy laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business.. Various federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of student and consumer data. This area of the law is evolving, and interpretations of applicable laws and regulations differ. Legislative activity in the privacy area may result in new laws that are relevant to us and the operations of our institutions, for example, restricting use of consumer data for marketing or advertising, and may lead to increases in the cost of compliance. For example, our institutions may be subject to the GDPR, which contains a number of requirements that may apply when they collect or otherwise handle personal information about individuals in the EU. Its applicability to us could result in substantial compliance costs. As the GDPR has not yet come into effect, enforcement priorities and interpretation of certain provisions remain unclear. However, non-compliance with the GDPR could result in a fine for certain activities of up to 20 million Euros or 4% of an organization's global annual revenue, whichever is higher, per violation. Claims of failure to comply with our institutions' privacy policies or applicable laws or regulations could form the basis of governmental or private-party actions against us. Such claims and actions may cause damage to our institutions' reputation and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. Any significant interruption in the operation of data centers hosting our institutions' technology infrastructure could cause a loss of data and disrupt the ability to manage our institutions' technology infrastructure.. Any significant interruption in the operation of our institutions' data centers or server rooms could cause a loss of data and disrupt the ability to manage network hardware and software and technological infrastructure. Even with redundancy, a significant interruption in the operation of these facilities or the loss of institutional and operational data due to a natural disaster, fire, power interruption, act of terrorism or other unanticipated catastrophic event may not be preventable. Any significant interruption in the operation of these facilities, including an interruption caused by the failure to successfully expand or upgrade systems or manage transitions and implementations, could reduce the ability to manage network and technological infrastructure, which could adversely affect our institutions' operations and reputations. Additionally, our institutions do not necessarily control the operation of the facilities hosting our technology infrastructure and may be required to rely on other parties to provide physical security, facilities management and communications infrastructure services. If any third-party vendors encounter financial difficulty such as bankruptcy or other events beyond our control that causes them to fail to adequately secure and maintain their facilities or provide necessary data communications capacity, our institutions' students may experience interruptions in service or the loss or theft of important data, which could adversely affect our financial condition.. Government regulations relating to the internet could increase our cost of doing business and affect our ability to grow.. Government regulations relating to the internet could increase our cost of doing business and affect our ability to grow. The increasing reliance on and use of the internet and other online services has led and may continue to lead to the adoption of new laws and regulatory practices in the United States or foreign countries and to new interpretations of existing laws and regulations. These new laws and interpretations may relate to issues such as online privacy, internet neutrality, copyrights, trademarks and service marks, sales taxes, fair business practices, and the requirement that online education institutions qualify to do business as foreign corporations or be licensed in one or more jurisdictions where they have no physical location. New laws, regulations or interpretations related to doing business over the internet could increase our costs of compliance or doing business and materially affect our institutions' ability to offer online courses, which would have a material effect on our business and financial condition.. 81. Risks Related to Owning our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile, and as a result returns on an investment in our common stock may be volatile.. Since our initial public offering, we have had relatively limited public float, and trading in our common stock has also been limited and, at times, volatile. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained, and the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of some or all of the following:. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of comparable companies;. • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, our institutions' enrollments or net course registrations, or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts;. • the actual, anticipated or perceived impact of changes in the political environment, government policies, laws and regulations, or similar changes made by accrediting bodies;. • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock;. • general economic conditions and trends;. • catastrophic events;. • sales of large blocks of our stock;. • recruitment or departure of key personnel; or. • actions of others in our industry.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Because of the potential volatility of our stock price, we may become the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and monetary damages and could divert management's attention and resources from our business.. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our quarterly results fluctuate and, therefore, the results in any quarter may not represent the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or full year. Our revenue and operating results normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal or other variations in our institutions' enrollments and associated expenses. Student population at our institutions varies as a result of new enrollments, graduations, student attrition, increased military operations and deployments, the success of our marketing programs, and other reasons that we cannot always anticipate. We expect quarterly fluctuations in operating results to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns at our institutions and related fluctuations in expenses. These fluctuations may result in volatility in our results of operations, have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, or both.. Provisions in our organizational documents and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions in our charter and bylaws and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a takeover attempt we oppose even if a change of control of our Company would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions include:. • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences, and rights of each series without stockholder approval, which may discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Company;. • a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of their intention to nominate a director or to propose any other business at an annual meeting of stockholders;. • a prohibition against stockholder action by means of written consent unless otherwise approved by our Board of Directors in advance; and. • Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner.. 82"
