[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The occurrence of any of the events described below could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and growth prospects. In such an event, the trading price of our common stock may decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. We depend on commercial payors for reimbursement at rates that allow us to operate at a profit.. Commercial payors pay us at rates that are generally significantly higher than Medicare rates and the rates paid by other government - based payors such as state Medicaid programs. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived on average approximately 36.7% of patient service operating revenues from commercial payors (and 41.0% for the three years ended December 31, 2017), including non-contracted providers, even though commercial payors were the source of reimbursement for 13.0% of the treatments performed during the year ended December 31, 2017.  This represents a decrease compared to 2016 in the proportion of commercial payors relative to government payors as a source of reimbursement. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived approximately 1.5% of patient service operating revenues from ACA-compliant individual marketplace plans (\"ACA plans\"), both on-exchange and off-exchange, and these ACA plans were the source of reimbursement for approximately 1.2% of the treatments performed during the year ended December 31, 2017. Medicare rates are generally insufficient to cover our total operating expenses allocable to providing dialysis treatments for Medicare patients. As a result, our ability to generate operating earnings is substantially dependent on revenues derived from commercial payors, some of which pay negotiated payment rates and others of which pay based on our usual and customary fee schedule. To the extent the proportion of commercial payors continues to decrease relative to government payors as a source of reimbursement for treatments, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and cash flows.. If the number of patients with commercial insurance declines, our operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected.. Our revenues are sensitive to the number of patients with commercial insurance coverage, including those with employer group health plans, as well as the number of patients who have chosen ACA plans and other non-employer-based plans. A patient's insurance coverage may change for a number of reasons, including as a result of changes in the patient's or a family member's employment status. Other factors that may cause an increase in the number of patients who have government - based programs as their primary payors include changes to terms or the availability of coverage from commercial payors, changes to the healthcare regulatory system, sustained or increased job losses and improved longevity and lower standard mortality rates for ESRD patients, resulting in a lower percentage of patients covered under commercial insurance plans. To the extent there are adverse changes in the unemployment rate in the United States, including a prolonged period of unfavorable employment conditions, we could experience a decrease in the number of patients under employer group health plans. We could also experience a further decrease if changes to the healthcare regulatory system, including as a result of healthcare reform laws, result in fewer patients covered under commercial insurance plans. In addition, our continued negotiations with existing and new commercial payors could result in a decrease in the number of patients under commercial insurance plans to the extent that we cannot reach agreement with these payors on rates and other terms.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we experienced an adverse change in the commercial treatment mix as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, due primarily to a decline in ACA plans. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2017, the percentage of treatments accounted for by commercial payors and others, including the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (the \"VA\"), but not including ACA plans, averaged 11.8%, compared to 12.9% for the prior year, and we expect it to remain lower. If there is a significant additional reduction in the number of ESRD patients insured through commercial insurance plans, whether ACA plans or non-ACA commercial insurance plans, relative to patients insured through government - based programs, it would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.. Patients with commercial insurance coverage commonly rely on financial assistance from charitable organizations, such as the American Kidney Fund (\"AKF\"). Certain commercial payors have challenged the availability and legitimacy of charitable support as a premium funding source for patients, including through litigation and other strategies. Regulators such as CMS have considered (and, in some instances, questioned) the use of charitable premium assistance for ESRD patients purchasing ACA plans. See \" - If the rates paid by commercial payors decline, our operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected,\" \" - Our ongoing dispute with United could adversely affect our reimbursement rates, operating results and. 26. Table of Contents. cash flows\" and \" - Increased scrutiny in our industry and potential regulatory changes could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition\" below and \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\" If any of these challenges to kidney patients' use of premium support are successful or restrictions are imposed on the use of financial assistance from such charitable organizations such that patients are unable to obtain or continue to receive, or receive only for a limited duration, such financial assistance, our revenues, earnings and cash flow could be substantially reduced.. In addition, AKF has in the past, and may in the future, suspend premium assistance payments from time to time and may experience decreases from time to time in the donations it receives. Any funding shortfall at a charity such as AKF or any other inability of such charity to make premium support payments could adversely affect patients' ability to afford commercial insurance coverage, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and cash flows.. If the rates paid by commercial payors decline, our operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected.. The dialysis services industry is subject to rate pressure from commercial payors, including employer group health plans, as well as ACA plans, as a result of general conditions in the market, recent and future consolidations among commercial payors and other factors. We are continuously in the process of negotiating agreements with our commercial payors. Commercial payors generally seek to limit their costs, which can manifest itself in actions such as downward pressure on contracted commercial payor rates (whether under ACA plans or otherwise), efforts to design and implement plans that limit access to coverage, and the duration and/or the breadth of benefits, or even litigation such as that described in the following risk factor, measures that may result in decreased payments and/or disruption to our business. In the event that our negotiations result in overall commercial rate reductions in excess of overall commercial rate increases and such changes are not offset by increases in the number of covered patients receiving our services, the net impact would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, consolidations in the healthcare sector, including mergers of healthcare insurers and acquisitions of healthcare providers by insurers, may significantly increase the negotiating leverage of commercial payors. Our negotiations with payors are influenced by competitive and other pressures exerted by such payors, which may result in decreases to some of our contracted rates or a termination of certain of our relationships with commercial payors.. In addition to downward pressure on contracted commercial payor rates, commercial payors have in some instances decreased, and may continue to decrease, payment rates for non - contracted providers. Commercial payors have been attempting to impose restrictions and limitations on patient access to ACA plans and non - contracted or out-of-network providers. Some of our clinics are currently designated as out - of - network providers by some of our current commercial payors. Commercial payors have restructured, and may continue to restructure, their benefits to create impediments for patients in selecting particular providers, including disincentives for patients to select or remain with out - of - network providers.. If commercial payors increase the restrictions and limitations they impose, our revenues derived from commercial payors could decline. Rates for some commercial exchange products and out-of-network providers are generally higher than rates for government products and in-network providers, respectively. In addition, a number of commercial payors have incorporated policies into their provider manuals limiting or refusing to accept charitable premium assistance from charitable organizations, such as the AKF, which may impact the number of patients who are able to afford commercial insurance coverage, including Medicare supplemental insurance policy coverage. Reductions in contracted commercial payor rates or rates received with respect to non-contracted providers, or any measures applied by commercial payors of the type described above or in the following risk factor, may make certain dialysis centers economically unviable and could result in a significant decrease in our overall revenues derived from commercial payors and a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows.. Our ongoing dispute with United could adversely affect our reimbursement rates, operating results and cash flows.. As previously disclosed, we and our wholly owned operating subsidiary American Renal Associates LLC are defendants in litigation initiated in 2016 by affiliates of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (\"United\") that relates to 30 patients who have received, and some of whom continue to receive, dialysis at 12 clinics in Florida and Ohio and who obtained coverage under one of United's ACA plans. The plaintiffs assert various state law claims and allege violations of certain state laws that prohibit false insurance claims, healthcare kickbacks, patient brokering and violations of the applicable commercial plan agreements in connection with, among other things, premium payment assistance by the AKF.  We are vigorously defending ourselves in this matter, and we expect to remain in active litigation during 2018. See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\". As described in the preceding risk factor, we continue to experience rate pressure from commercial payors, and in particular from United, including reductions in reimbursement rates with respect to some patients and efforts to limit certain patients' access to our clinics. In addition to initiating the litigation described above, United has indicated that its disagreement. 27. Table of Contents. with us goes beyond those patients with ACA plans to other patients with commercial insurance from United. Although it has not initiated any claims against us with respect to those other patients to date, any such claims could involve material amounts. We do not have a contract with United, and for most patients covered by United, our clinics are out-of-network providers. As previously disclosed, United has sought to limit access to our clinics for all patients receiving charitable premium assistance and to renegotiate commercial reimbursement rates generally. We are aware that United has also exerted pressure on certain of our physician partners with respect to their referrals to our clinics of patients who have out-of-network benefits. Our treatment volume from patients covered by United decreased in 2017 compared to 2016, and this trend could continue in the future, whether as a result of these actions or otherwise. In addition, if a large commercial payor, such as United, for which we are an out-of-network provider were to reduce reimbursement rates for a significant portion of our patients covered by them, our profitability would be materially adversely affected. See \" - If the rates paid by commercial payors decline, our operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected.\". Our overall dispute with United is a source of continuing uncertainty in our business. An unfavorable decision or resolution of the United litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows as well as our relationships with other commercial payors. In addition, we may have limited ability to address actions of the type taken by United or may be unable to do so except in a manner that materially adversely affects our results of operations. In particular, we may determine that it is appropriate, as part of a broader resolution of our dispute with United or otherwise, to enter into a long-term contract with United or with other commercial payors for which we are an out-of-network provider even if the reimbursement rates under that contract are less favorable to us (and possibly materially so) than the rates we currently receive and even if they materially adversely affect our profitability in this and future years. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not continuously obtain new patients covered by commercial insurance, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected.. Our revenues are sensitive to the number of new dialysis patients covered by commercial insurance. Medicare beneficiaries with ESRD generally become eligible for coverage on the first day of the third month after the month in which a course of regular dialysis begins, but this three-month waiting period may be partially or completely waived if the patient participates in a self - dialysis training program or has a kidney transplant. For a dialysis patient with commercial insurance coverage, the commercial insurance plan generally is the primary payor for a 30 - month coordination period beginning on the first month that the individual would be entitled to Medicare on the basis of ESRD, regardless of whether the patient actually enrolls in Medicare. After the 30 - month coordination period, Medicare becomes the primary payor as long as the individual retains eligibility based on ESRD and the part B premiums are timely paid. Medicare coverage ends if the patient has not received dialysis for 12 months, if 36 months have passed since the beneficiary had a successful kidney transplant or if the patient disenrolls from Medicare part B.. When Medicare becomes the primary payor, the payment rate we receive for that patient shifts from the commercial insurance rate to the Medicare payment rate, which is generally significantly lower than the commercial rate. For each covered treatment, Medicare pays 80% of the amount set by the Medicare program and the patient is responsible for the remaining 20%. In many cases, a secondary payor, such as Medicare supplemental insurance (offered by commercial payors), another commercial insurance plan or Medicaid, covers all or part of these balances. If dialysis patients who have Medicare as their primary payor do not have secondary insurance coverage, we must attempt to collect payment from the patient using reasonable collection efforts consistent with federal and state law, unless we are permitted by law to waive this 20% copayment.  In those cases where we seek the copayment, we may not be successful in collecting it. If there is a significant reduction in the number of new dialysis patients covered by commercial insurance, we would not receive the benefit of the 30 - month coordination period of higher reimbursement rates from commercial payors, which would materially adversely affect our operating results and cash flows.. The bundled payment system under the Medicare ESRD program may not reimburse us for all of our operating costs.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived 63.3%, of our revenues from reimbursement from government - based and other programs, including 44.9% from the Medicare ESRD program and 14.1% from Medicare-assigned insurance through the Medicare Advantage program. The reimbursement that we receive from Medicare under the ESRD prospective payment rate system (the \"ESRD PPS\"), generally described below, may be insufficient to cover our treatment costs.. For patients with Medicare coverage, all reimbursement of dialysis services is made using a bundled payment system. The bundled payment under the ESRD PPS covers both the dialysis treatment itself and the majority of the renal - related items and services provided to a patient during the dialysis treatment, including laboratory services, pharmaceuticals, such as. 28. Table of Contents. erythropoietin stimulating agents (\"ESAs\"), and medication administration, irrespective of the level of pharmaceuticals administered or additional services performed, with the exception of drugs that are reimbursed under the ESRD PPS Transitional Drug Add-On Payment Adjustment (\"TDAPA\"). TDAPA was established by CMS to facilitate beneficiary access to certain qualifying products by allowing payment for these drugs and biologicals during a transitional time period while the necessary utilization data is collected.. The ESRD PPS is built around a \"base rate,\" which changes annually based on changes in the costs of a \"market basket\" of certain goods and services included in dialysis, minus a productivity adjustment. The base rate is then modified for certain patient characteristics, a geographic usage index and certain other factors to arrive at the actual payment rate.  See \"Business - Reimbursement - Medicare Reimbursement\" for a more detailed description of the Medicare reimbursement rate determination.. CMS issues annual updates to the ESRD PPS, which may affect the base rate as well as the various adjusters. The ESRD PPS Final Rule for 2018 was released on October 27, 2017 (the \"2018 Final Rule\") and set the rates for calendar year 2018. The 2018 Final Rule will result in an overall increase of payments to U.S. dialysis facilities of 0.5%, with freestanding dialysis facilities receiving an update of 0.5% and hospital-based dialysis facilities receiving an update of 0.7%. The finalized 2018 ESRD base rate of $232.37 is an increase of $0.82 from the 2017 base rate of $231.55. The 2018 Final Rule also updates the reimbursement rate to ESRD facilities for dialysis services furnished to individuals with acute kidney injury. Certain adjustment factors applicable to the base rate could have the effect of increasing or decreasing the actual payment rate for some of our clinics at levels that are different than the overall national average update listed in the 2018 Final Rule's impact analysis tables. Future adjustments to the ESRD PPS implemented by CMS could have a negative impact upon our Medicare program revenues.. Our operating costs may outpace these and any future rate increases we receive under the ESRD PPS, and we may not be able to adjust our operations adequately to manage such costs. If drug or medical supply prices, for instance, increase beyond that contemplated when the bundled rate was set by CMS, the difference between the bundled rate and the drug or supply - related costs could have a significant adverse effect on a facility's profitability. Further, the bundled payment system requires dialysis facilities to provide new services within the payment bundle, unless designated under TDAPA, which may increase our operating costs. We may not recoup these costs, even with rate adjustments. Finally, the case - mix adjustment component of the ESRD PPS renders it difficult for us to predict the Medicare related revenues that we will receive, due to the number and variety of patient - level adjustment factors. We may not be able to make necessary adjustments in our operations to accommodate reductions in revenue that may result from case - mix variations.. Increased scrutiny in our industry and potential regulatory changes could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Our dialysis operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, all of which are subject to change. On August 18, 2016, CMS issued a request for information for public comment on concerns that some healthcare providers and provider-affiliated organizations may be steering patients eligible for, or receiving, Medicare and/or Medicaid benefits into ACA plans, including health insurance marketplace plans. The request also sought public comment about certain charities that provide assistance to patients seeking to enroll in private insurance coverage. CMS also sent letters to all Medicare-enrolled dialysis facilities and centers, including the Company's facilities, informing them of this request for information. The Company provided a response to the CMS request for information, which response is publicly available on the U.S. government's Regulations.gov website.. In December 2016, HHS issued an interim final rule (\"IFR\") that would have required dialysis facilities to make certain disclosures to insurers and patients in connection with ACA plans and would have effectively enabled insurers to reject charitable premium assistance payments. In January 2017, a federal district court issued a preliminary injunction, enjoining HHS from implementing the IFR, and in June 2017, at the request of the government, the court stayed the proceedings while HHS undertakes further rulemaking in order to replace the IFR with a new rule to be issued through a rule-making process. No such final rule is required to be issued, but if such a rule were issued and survived any potential court challenges, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company.. On January 3, 2017, the Company received a subpoena from the United States Attorney's Office, District of Massachusetts, requesting information relating to the Company's payments to and other interactions with the AKF and any efforts to educate patients qualified or enrolled in Medicare or Medicaid about enrollment in ACA plans, among other related matters under applicable healthcare laws, for the period from January 1, 2013 through the present. As it has done with the other regulators who have expressed interest in such matters, the Company has cooperated fully with the government and will continue to do so. If the United States Attorney's Office, District of Massachusetts, were to find violations of any federal. 29. Table of Contents. criminal or civil laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Based on publicly available information, we believe that other dialysis companies also received subpoenas from the United States Attorney's Office, District of Massachusetts, which may be related to similar matters.. In recent years, some states have considered legislation, ballot initiatives or referendums, or policy changes that could, if implemented, impose additional requirements on our operations, including increases in the required staffing levels or staffing ratios for clinical personnel, minimum transition times between treatments and limits on how much patients may be charged for care. For example, a ballot initiative filed in California for the November 2018 election would limit the amount dialysis clinics could charge to 115% of the average treatment cost in California. Changes such as these mandated by future legislation, ballot initiatives or referendums, or policy changes could materially reduce our revenues and increase our operating expense and impact our ability to staff our clinics to the new, elevated staffing levels. Any of these events or circumstances could materially reduce our revenues and increase our operating and other costs, require us to close dialysis centers or reduce shifts, and could have a material adverse effect on our employee relations, treatment growth, productivity, business, results of operations and financial condition.. Furthermore, the Company has received letters from certain insurance companies indicating that they will not insure patients who receive premium payment assistance from third-party charitable organizations. In addition to charitable premium support for patients enrolled in ACA plans, the AKF provides charitable premium support to patients with other insurance coverage, including Medicare supplemental insurance and commercial insurance. If patients are unable to obtain or to continue to receive AKF charitable premium support due to insurance company challenges to covering patients receiving charitable premium support, including those described above under \" - If the rates paid by commercial payors decline, our operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected\"; legislative changes; rules or interpretations issued by HHS limiting such support; or other reasons, the financial impact on our company could be substantially greater than the financial impact we experienced in 2017 associated with the more restrictive environment for patients previously enrolled in ACA plans who relied on charitable premium assistance and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. The increased scrutiny from regulators and insurers could further adversely affect the enrollment of patients at our clinics in ACA plans and other individual commercial plans, cause additional reductions in our average reimbursement rates or result in additional limitations on our operations. In addition, the Company is unable to predict the contours of any new regulation that CMS has promised to issue following the entry of the preliminary injunction against the government. Such new regulation could adversely affect the Company by, among other things, restricting premium and cost-sharing assistance for patients from charitable organizations such as the AKF, or adopting other changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our dialysis operations. The government could seek to take other adverse action against the Company and other dialysis providers, including seeking to impose civil money penalties.. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to develop de novo clinics. Our attempt to expand through development of de novo clinics entails risks to our growth, as well as to our operating results and financial condition.. We have experienced rapid clinic growth since our inception. We have grown primarily through the development of de novo dialysis clinics as JVs with new and existing partner nephrologists or nephrologist groups. Growth through development places significant demands on our financial and management resources. Inability on our part to address these demands could adversely affect our growth, as well as our operating results and financial condition.. We generally expand by seeking appropriate locations for a dialysis clinic, taking into consideration the availability of a nephrologist to be our medical director and nephrologist partner, payor types and a skilled work force, including qualified nursing and technical personnel. The inability to identify suitable locations, suitable nephrologist partners and workforce personnel for our dialysis clinics could adversely affect our growth, as well as our operating results and financial condition.. The development of a de novo dialysis clinic can be expensive and may include costs related to construction, equipment and initial working capital. De novo dialysis clinics are subject to various risks, including risks associated with the availability and terms of financing for development, securing appropriate licenses and permits, achieving brand awareness in new markets, managing increases in costs, competing for appropriate sites in new markets and maintaining adequate information systems and other operational system capabilities. Our ability to develop additional clinics may be limited by state certificate of need programs and other regulatory restrictions on expansion. States without certificate of need programs may begin restricting the development of new clinics and states with existing programs may institute more restrictive measures.. Our de novo clinics may not become cash flow positive or profitable on a timely basis or at all. Although we may achieve positive clinic - level monthly EBITDA within six months after the first treatment at a clinic, approximately 24% of our de novo clinics have exceeded six months from first treatment to positive clinic - level monthly EBITDA, with these clinics. 30. Table of Contents. averaging approximately 12 months to positive clinic - level monthly EBITDA. Delays in the opening of de novo clinics, delays or costs resulting from a decrease in commercial development due to capital constraints, difficulties resulting from commercial, residential and infrastructure development (or lack thereof) near our de novo clinics, difficulties in staffing and operating new locations or lack of acceptance in new market areas may negatively impact our de novo clinic growth and the costs or the profitability associated with de novo clinics. Further, additional federal or state legislative or regulatory restrictions or licensure requirements could negatively impact our ability to operate both existing and de novo clinics.. The inability to develop de novo clinics with new or existing partner nephrologists or nephrologist groups on reasonable terms or in a cost - effective manner would adversely affect our growth as well as our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to continue to successfully expand our business through establishing de novo clinics, and any new de novo clinics may not achieve profitability that is consistent with our past results or otherwise perform as planned. Failure to successfully implement any of our growth strategies, including developing de novo clinics, would likely have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to attract new physician partners on terms favorable to us. If we are unable to do so, our future growth could be limited.. We believe that an important component of our financial performance and growth is our partnership with physicians that purchase ownership interests in our joint venture clinics. Our ability to partner with physicians may be inhibited in markets where a large portion of nephrologists are subject to covenants not to compete with our competitors. Based on competitive factors and market conditions, physicians may seek to negotiate relatively higher levels of equity ownership in our clinics, consequently limiting or reducing our share of the profits from these clinics. In addition, physician ownership in our clinics is subject to significant regulatory restrictions. See \" - Our arrangements and relationships with our physician partners and medical directors do not satisfy all of the elements of safe harbors to the federal anti - kickback statute and certain state anti - kickback laws and, as a result, may subject us to government scrutiny or civil or criminal monetary penalties or require us to restructure such arrangements.\". De novo clinics, once opened, may not be profitable initially or at all, and the comparable de novo revenue that we have experienced in the past may not be indicative of future results.. Our results have been, and in the future may continue to be, significantly impacted by a number of factors, including factors outside of our control related to the opening of de novo clinics, such as the timing of de novo clinic openings, associated de novo clinic preopening costs and operating inefficiencies. We typically incur the most significant portion of operating losses associated with a given de novo clinic within a relatively short amount of time preceding and following the opening of the de novo clinic. A de novo clinic builds its patient volumes over time and, as a result, generally has lower revenue than our existing clinics. Newly established dialysis clinics, although contributing to increased revenues, have adversely affected our results of operations in the short term due to a smaller patient base to absorb operating expenses. Any de novo clinics we open may not be profitable or achieve operating results similar to those of our existing de novo clinics. If our de novo clinics do not perform similar to de novo clinics we have opened in the past, then our business and future prospects could be harmed. In addition, if we are unable to achieve expected comparable de novo clinic revenues, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire existing dialysis clinics. If we are unable to successfully complete such acquisitions, our future growth could be limited.. Our business strategy includes the selective acquisition of existing dialysis clinics. In general, acquiring an existing dialysis clinic is more costly than developing a de novo dialysis clinic but has historically been a faster means for achieving profitability and entering a new market. If we are unable to successfully execute on this strategy in the future, our future growth could be limited. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or to complete acquisitions in a timely manner and on favorable terms. We may need to obtain additional capital or financing, from time to time, to fund these acquisitions. Sufficient capital or financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, our ability to acquire additional clinics may be limited by state certificate of need programs and other regulatory restrictions on expansion. Even if we are able to acquire additional clinics, there is no guarantee that we will be able to operate them successfully as stand - alone businesses, or that any such acquired clinic will operate profitably or will not otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. Further, we cannot be certain that key talented individuals at the acquired clinic will continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they will be able to continue to successfully manage any acquired clinic. We also face significant competition from local, regional and national dialysis operators and other owners of clinics in pursuing attractive acquisition candidates. See \" - Our competitors have increasingly adopted a JV model and compete with us for establishing de novo clinics, acquiring existing dialysis clinics and engaging medical directors, which could materially adversely impact our growth. 31. Table of Contents. prospects.\" The inability to acquire existing clinics on reasonable terms or in a cost - effective manner could adversely affect our growth as well as our operating results and financial condition.. Acquisitions may subject us to unknown liabilities, and we may not be indemnified for all of these liabilities.. Businesses we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities or liabilities that are in excess of the amounts that we originally estimated. Although we generally seek indemnification from the sellers of businesses we acquire for matters that are not properly disclosed to us, we may not be successful in obtaining indemnification. In addition, even in cases where we are able to obtain indemnification, we may be subject to liabilities greater than the contractual limits of our indemnification or the financial resources of the indemnifying party. In the event that we are responsible for liabilities substantially in excess of any amounts recovered through rights to indemnification, we could suffer severe consequences that could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.. Damage to our reputation or our brand in existing or new markets could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We believe we have built our reputation on the high quality of our dialysis clinic services, physicians and operating personnel, as well as on our culture and the experience of our patients in our clinics, and we must protect and grow the value of our brand to continue to be successful in the future. Our brand may be diminished if we do not continue to make the day - to - day investments required for clinic operations, equipment upgrades and staff training. Any incident, real or perceived, regardless of merit or outcome, that erodes our brand, such as, but not limited to, adverse patient outcomes due to medical malpractice or allegations of medical malpractice, failure to comply with federal, state or local regulations including allegations or perceptions of non - compliance or failure to comply with ethical and operating standards, could significantly reduce the value of our brand, expose us to adverse publicity and damage our overall business and reputation. Further, our brand value could suffer and our business could be adversely affected if patients perceive a reduction in the quality of service or staff, or an adverse change in our culture or otherwise believe we have failed to deliver a consistently positive patient experience.. Infringement of our trademarks and other proprietary rights or a finding that our services infringe the proprietary rights of others could impair our competitive position, require us to change our business practices or subject us to significant costs and monetary penalties.. Our ability to successfully grow our business depends in part on our ability to maintain brand recognition using our trademarks and logos. If our efforts to protect our trademarks are unsuccessful, and third parties are able to use the same or similar brand names in competitive business lines, the value of our business may be harmed. If we are found to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights, we could be liable for damages or be subject to an injunction that forces us to rebrand our services or replace certain technology or other intellectual property. If we are unable to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights, or if we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, such events could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Federal laws negatively impacting Medicare reimbursement to our dialysis facilities may have an adverse effect on our revenues.. Subsequent to the establishment of the ESRD PPS, Congress enacted legislation that has resulted in reductions to Medicare program reimbursement rates for dialysis services. Under the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (\"ATRA\") and the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (\"PAMA\"), the market basket inflation adjustment to the ESRD PPS bundled rate was reduced by 1.25% for the 2016 and 2017 payment years and will be reduced by 1% for the 2018 payment year. According to the Congressional Budget Office, these adjustments will result in a reduction in payments to dialysis providers of $1.8 billion over ten years, and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on the financial performance of our dialysis facilities. The ATRA and PAMA legislation may also affect the bundle of items and services for which we are reimbursed. For example, the inclusion of oral - only ESRD - related drugs in the bundled payment was delayed by ATRA until 2016, was further delayed by PAMA until at least 2024 and was finally delayed by the Stephen Beck, Jr. Achieving a Better Life Experience Act of 2014 until January 1, 2025. CMS also adopted a Final Rule implementing this delay until January 1, 2025. The Final Rule also established TDAPA, a drug designation process for determining when a product is no longer an oral - only drug and for determining when new injectables and intravenous products will be included in the ESRD bundled payment, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and revenues as a result of being required to provide these drugs after the TDAPA period without adequate reimbursement.. Federal budget sequestration cuts, including a 2% reduction to Medicare payments, became effective in April 2013 and have been extended through 2027.  These cuts have affected and will continue to affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows.. 32. Table of Contents. President Trump's 2019 budget proposal outlines additional spending cuts and tax reform initiatives, some of which would result in changes (including reductions in funding) to Medicare and Medicaid. These measures or any similar measures proposed by President Trump or Congress, if adopted, could affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows. Future federal legislation relating to the federal government's borrowing authority or deficit reduction may also have a negative impact on our financial performance.. The Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015 (the \"TPE Act\") was enacted on June 29, 2015 and allows outpatient dialysis facilities to receive Medicare reimbursement for renal dialysis services furnished to individuals with acute kidney injury (\"AKI\") on or after January 1, 2017. The TPE Act allows our facilities to receive Medicare reimbursement for services furnished to individuals with acute kidney injuries, resulting in a potential new stream of revenue. However, there is no guarantee that the Medicare reimbursement rate for dialysis treatments for AKI will allow us to satisfy our related operating expenses or that we will otherwise generate revenue from the provision of AKI services in our facilities.. The ESRD Quality Incentive Program may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and revenues.. The ESRD Quality Incentive Program (\"ESRD QIP\"), which is administered by CMS, is designed to promote the provision of high - quality dialysis services in outpatient dialysis facilities. Under the ESRD QIP, a portion of the bundled per treatment payment that a dialysis facility receives from Medicare is tied to the facility's performance in a previous year on certain quality of care measures. These measures include anemia management, dialysis adequacy, and other measures that CMS may specify from time to time, including measurements relating to iron management, bone mineral metabolism, vascular access and patient satisfaction. If a dialysis facility does not meet or exceed certain performance standards related to these measures during a performance year, the facility will be subject to a reduction in payments of up to 2% for all services performed during a subsequent payment year. CMS modifies the ESRD QIP each year, such that the quality measures selected, the performance scoring system and other factors that impact a dialysis facility's ESRD QIP performance will likely differ from year to year. As of December 31, 2017, CMS has established the ESRD QIP performance measures for payment years through 2021, but these measures may be subject to further change by CMS.  See \"Item 1. Business - Reimbursement - Medicare Reimbursement\" for a discussion of the currently established performance measures.    Any changes to the ESRD QIP measures could have an adverse impact on our ability to avoid or minimize payment reductions under the ESRD QIP. Under the ESRD QIP, our dialysis facilities may be subject to downward Medicare program payment adjustments that could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and revenues.. The federal government publishes performance and quality data on dialysis facilities and recently added a star rating system. If our facilities receive low ratings or if the ratings and data published by CMS are inaccurate, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected by a loss of patients or lack of new patients.. CMS includes a star rating system on the Dialysis Facility Compare (\"DFC\") website, a portal that publishes qualitative and quantitative information regarding clinical outcomes and the efficacy of dialysis at Medicare certified dialysis facilities. The star rating system ranks facilities on a scale of 1 to 5 stars based on DFC quality measures and utilizes a normal distribution. Due to differences in patient populations and DFC quality measures, star ratings can vary significantly between dialysis facilities without reflecting actual differences in treatment quality. Although CMS has established the ESRD Star Rating Technical Experts Panel to review the methodology for producing the star ratings, there is no guarantee that star ratings will accurately reflect the quality of care provided at a dialysis facility. If our facilities receive low star ratings or if data published on the DFC website is inaccurate, it could adversely affect our ability to retain or attract new patients, and, accordingly, adversely affect our revenues.. Changes in VA, state Medicaid or other non - Medicare government programs or payment rates could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived approximately 2% of our revenues from patients primarily insured through the VA. In December 2010, the VA adopted Medicare's bundled payment system, resulting in a reduction in payments for dialysis services at centers treating VA patients. To the extent payments are further reduced or to the extent we lose VA patients as a result of VA policies, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived approximately 4% of our revenues from patients who had Medicaid or Medicaid managed care as their primary insurer. As state governments face increasing budgetary pressure, they may propose reductions in payment rates, delays in the timing of payments, limitations on eligibility or other changes to Medicaid programs. Some states have already taken steps to reduce or delay payments. In addition, some states' Medicaid eligibility requirements mandate that enrollees in Medicaid programs provide documented proof of citizenship. More recently, several states have begun adopting work or similar requirements for many enrollees in Medicaid. Our revenues, earnings and. 33. Table of Contents. cash flows could be negatively affected to the extent that we are not paid by Medicaid or other state programs for services provided to patients who are unable to satisfy the eligibility requirements. If state governments reduce the rates paid by Medicaid programs for dialysis and related services, delay the timing of payment for services provided, further limit eligibility for Medicaid coverage or adopt changes to the Medicaid payment structure that reduce our overall payments from Medicaid, then our revenues, earnings, and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Changes in clinical practices, payment rates or regulations relating to ESAs and other pharmaceuticals could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition as well as our ability to care for patients.. The Medicare bundled payment system includes reimbursement for ESAs such that ESA dosing variations do not change the amount paid to a dialysis facility. Many commercial insurance programs have been moving towards a bundled payment system inclusive of ESAs, while some continue to pay for ESAs separately. Further increases in utilization of ESAs for patients for whom the cost of ESAs is included in a bundled reimbursement rate, further decreases in reimbursement for ESAs and other pharmaceuticals that are reimbursed in addition to the bundled rate, or changes to administration policies could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows. In addition, reductions in the frequency with which ESAs are administered by our facilities should reduce our facilities' operating costs. On the other hand, Medicare in the future may reduce the national base rate to take into account these lower costs. Any such reduction could have a negative impact on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.. We may be subject to inquiries or audits from a variety of governmental bodies or claims by third parties related to our medication administration and billing policies for ESAs and other pharmaceuticals. Inquiries or audits from governmental bodies or claims by third parties would require management's attention and could result in significant legal expense. Any negative findings could result in substantial financial penalties or repayment obligations, mandates to change our practices and procedures as well as the attendant financial burden on us to comply with the obligations, and exclusion from future participation in federal healthcare programs.. Changes in the availability and cost of ESAs and other pharmaceuticals could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition as well as our ability to care for patients.. The ESAs required for our clinics are supplied by Amgen Inc. (\"Amgen\"), with its drugs branded as EPOGEN (\"EPO\") and Aranesp and, since September 2017, Vifor International AG (\"Vifor\"), with the F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd. drug branded as Mircera. Under our agreement with Amgen, Amgen may unilaterally decide to increase its prices for EPO and Aranesp at any time. In the event that it does so, Vifor may be unable to increase its supply of Mircera to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to avoid incurring such increased prices, and we may not have access to alternative ESAs that are both cost-effective and work as effectively as our current ESAs. Furthermore, we are committed to purchase certain minimum quantities of ESAs from Amgen through the end of 2018 and accordingly would be required to pay any increased price from Amgen on those committed amounts regardless of the availability of alternative ESAs. We do not have the ability to pass on any price increases to Medicare and Medicaid and may not have the ability to pass on price increases to commercial payors. Changes in the availability and cost of ESAs and other renal - related pharmaceuticals could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows and ultimately reduce our income.. If our suppliers are unable to meet our needs, if there are material price increases or if we are unable to effectively access new technology, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The available supply of ESAs from Amgen and Vifor could be delayed or reduced, whether by one or both of them, through unforeseen circumstances or as a result of excessive demand. If Amgen or Vifor is unable to meet our needs for ESAs, including in the event of a product recall, and we are not able to find adequate alternative sources, it could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, Amgen may terminate for convenience with 30 days' notice the group purchasing organization agreement through which we are supplied ESAs by them. If Amgen terminates the agreement for convenience, Vifor may be unable to timely increase, or increase at all, its supply of ESAs to cover any resulting shortfall, and we may not have access to alternative ESAs that are both cost-effective and work as effectively as our current ESAs.. In addition, the technology related to ESAs is subject to new developments that may result in superior products. If we are not able to access these superior products on a cost - effective basis or if suppliers are not able to fulfill our requirements for products, we could face patient attrition which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We monitor our relationships with suppliers to better anticipate any potential shortages and reduce the likelihood of the loss of a supplier. However, if we experience shortages or material price increases that we are unable to mitigate, this could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. 34. Table of Contents. The development of new technologies could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows.. The development of new kidney transplant technologies could decrease the need for dialysis services. Similarly, the development of new home dialysis technologies could decrease our in - center patient population and require us to refocus on providing home dialysis services in more of our markets. If new technologies are developed that require changes to our business structure or that otherwise decrease our in - center patient population, it could adversely affect our revenues, earnings, and cash flows.. There are significant risks associated with estimating the amount of revenues that we recognize that could impact the timing of our recognition of revenues or have a significant impact on our operating results and financial condition.. There are significant risks associated with estimating the amount of revenues that we recognize in a reporting period. Ongoing insurance coverage changes, geographic coverage differences, differing interpretations of contract coverage, uncertainty as to the amounts paid by various insurers with which we have no contracts and other payor issues complicate the billing and collection process. In addition, laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are extremely complex, changing and subject to interpretation. Determining applicable primary and secondary coverage for an extensive number of patients at any point in time, together with the changes in patient coverage that occur each month, requires complex, resource - intensive processes. Errors in determining the correct coordination of benefits may result in refunds to payors. Revenues associated with federal health insurance programs are also subject to risk related to estimating amounts not paid by the primary government payor that will ultimately be collectible from a secondary payor or the patient. Collections, refunds and payor retractions typically continue to occur for up to three years or longer after services are provided. If our estimates of revenues are materially inaccurate, it could impact the timing and amount of our recognition of revenues and have a significant impact on our operating results and financial condition.. If we do not timely or accurately bill for our services, our revenues, bad debt expense and cash flows may be adversely affected.. We are subject to a number of complex billing requirements. The process of providing medical care prior to receiving payment or determining a patient's ability to pay carries risks which may adversely affect our revenues, bad debt expense and cash flows. Payor billing requirements may differ by the type of payor as well as by the individual payor contract. Reimbursement for services we provide may be conditioned upon, amongst other requirements, properly coding and documenting services. Further, payors may fail to pay or refuse to pay for services even when properly billed. Additional factors that may influence our ability to receive reimbursement include, but are not limited to:.  Payor disputes regarding which party is responsible for payment;.   Variations in the amount or type of coverage for similar services amongst various payors; and.  Implementation of new coding standards or requirements, including International Classification of Diseases, 10th Edition, which may require more information or documentation.. If we are unable to meet payor billing requirements, reimbursement may be denied or delayed, which could adversely affect our revenues, bad debt expense and cash flows.. Federal or state healthcare reform laws could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, commonly and jointly referred to as the Affordable Care Act (the \"ACA\"), among other things, increased the number of individuals with private insurance coverage and Medicaid, implemented reimbursement policies that tie payment to quality, facilitated the creation of accountable care organizations that may use capitation and other alternative payment methodologies, strengthened enforcement of fraud and abuse laws and encouraged the use of information technology.. The ACA remains subject to continuing legislative and regulatory scrutiny, including efforts by Congress to repeal the ACA in its entirety, or to repeal, amend and replace a number of its provisions, as well as administrative actions delaying the effectiveness of key provisions. In addition, there have been lawsuits filed by various stakeholders pertaining to certain portions of the ACA that may have the effect of modifying or altering various parts of the law. In December 2017, President Trump signed into law a provision which eliminates the tax penalty for those individuals without health insurance coverage effective for tax years after December 31, 2018. Further, in February 2018, Congress passed the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (the \"BBA\"), which, among other things, repealed the Independent Payment Advisory Board that was established by the ACA to. 35. Table of Contents. develop strategies to control the rate of growth in Medicare spending.  While the ultimate impact of these changes on the healthcare industry is unknown, it may be extensive and may have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. President Trump has taken a number of actions that have the potential to significantly impact provisions of the ACA. On January 20, 2017, President Trump issued an Executive Order instructing the Secretary of Health and Human Services (\"HHS\") and the heads of other agencies that they should waive, defer, grant exemptions from or delay the implementation of any provision or requirement of the ACA that would impose a fiscal burden or cost, fee, tax or penalty on anyone. On October 12, 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order to direct the Secretaries of HHS and other agencies to examine ways for trade associations and other groups to expand the use of association health plans, groups of small businesses that pool together to buy health insurance, and to broaden the definition of short-term insurance, which is exempt from the ACA's rules. The ultimate impact will depend on any new regulations written as a result of the order, but the Executive Order's goal has the potential to permit the sale of less expensive health insurance offerings that include fewer benefits than those covered by the ACA. The Executive Order also could potentially destabilize ACA individual insurance markets as a result of fewer healthier individuals enrolling in ACA-compliant plans.  On October 12, 2017, President Trump took administrative action that immediately discontinued payment of cost-sharing reduction subsidies (\"CSRs\") to health insurers on the individual market that help insurers offer lower copays and deductibles to low-income individuals. Individuals choosing to purchase insurance through the ACA may face higher premiums or may have fewer insurance offerings to select from as a result, and significant uncertainty surrounds this issue.. Executive Orders and other administrative action by President Trump and HHS may significantly alter provisions of the ACA that may impact the trading price of our common stock.  We are unable to predict the impact of any modification or delay in the implementation of the ACA on us at this time.. We expect that additional federal and state healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future and cannot predict how employers, private payors or persons buying insurance might react to these changes. Full repeal or repeal of additional provisions of the ACA or any future healthcare reform legislation may increase our costs, limit the amounts that federal and state governments and other third - party payors will pay for healthcare products and services, expose us to expanded liability or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct our business, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we fail to adhere to all of the complex federal, state and local government regulations that apply to our business, we could suffer severe consequences that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Our dialysis operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, all of which are subject to change. These government regulations currently relate, among other things, to:.  government healthcare program participation requirements;.  requirements related to reimbursement for patient services, including Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rules and regulations, rules addressing the priority of payors, signature and documentation requirements, and coding requirements;.  federal and state anti - kickback laws, the federal physician self - referral prohibition statute (the \"Stark Law\") and analogous state physician self - referral statutes;.  false claims prohibitions for healthcare reimbursement programs and other fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including the federal False Claims Act, a provision in the ACA extending the federal False Claims Act to include, under certain circumstances, claims based on violations of the federal anti - kickback law and other civil monetary penalty laws, including laws prohibiting offering or giving remuneration to any beneficiary of a federal healthcare program that such person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary to order or receive any item or service reimbursable under such program;.  federal and state laws regarding record keeping requirements, privacy and security protections applicable to the collection, use and disclosure of protected health and other personally identifiable information, security breach notification requirements relating to protected health and other personally identifiable information, and standards for the exchange of electronic health information, electronic transactions and code sets and unique identifiers for providers;.  corporate practice of medicine;.  licensing and certification requirements applicable to our dialysis clinics;. 36. Table of Contents.  certificate of need laws and regulations; and.  regulation related to health, safety and environmental compliance, including medical waste disposal.. Because of the breadth of these laws and the strict requirements of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Achieving and sustaining compliance with these laws may prove costly. Failure to comply with these laws and other laws can result in civil and criminal penalties such as fines, damages, overpayment recoupment, loss of enrollment status and exclusion from federal healthcare programs. As many of these laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are sometimes open to a variety of interpretations, there is an increased risk that we may be found to have violated them. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations to our business or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements could create liability for us and negatively affect our business. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and result in adverse publicity.. In addition, the laws, regulations and standards governing the provision of healthcare services may change significantly in the future. Any new or changed healthcare laws, regulations or standards may not materially adversely affect our business.. We cannot assure you that a review of our business by judicial, law enforcement, regulatory or accreditation authorities under existing or new healthcare laws could result in a determination that could materially adversely affect our operations. If such a determination is made, we could suffer severe consequences that would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings cash flows and financial condition including:.  suspension, exclusion or termination of our participation in government payment programs;.  refunds to the government and third - party payors of amounts received in violation of law or applicable program or contract requirements;.  loss of required government certifications or exclusion from government payment programs;.  loss of licenses or certificates of need required to operate healthcare clinics in some of the states in which we operate;.  reductions in payment rates or coverage for dialysis and ancillary services and related pharmaceuticals;.  fines, damages, monetary penalties, and civil or criminal liability for violations of anti - kickback laws, the Stark Law, state self - referral and anti - kickback prohibitions, and submission of false claims based on violations of law or other failures to meet regulatory requirements;.  becoming subject to a corporate integrity agreement and the retention of an independent monitor to monitor compliance with such an agreement;.  enforcement actions by governmental agencies or state claims for monetary damages by patients who believe their protected health information has been used, disclosed or not properly safeguarded in violation of federal or state patient privacy laws, including HIPAA;.  mandated changes to our practices or procedures, including with respect to our billing and business practices, that significantly increase operating expenses;.  termination of relationships with medical directors, joint venture partners or other healthcare providers; and.  harm to our reputation, which could impact our business relationships, affect our ability to obtain financing and decrease access to new business opportunities.. Heightened federal and state investigation and enforcement efforts could subject us to increased costs of compliance and material adverse consequences.. Both federal and state government agencies, as well as commercial payors, have heightened and coordinated audits and administrative, civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare organizations. These investigations relate to a wide variety of topics, including cost reporting and billing practices, quality of care, financial reporting, financial relationships with referral sources, and medical necessity of services provided.. To enforce compliance with the federal laws, the U.S. Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (\"OIG\") have increased their scrutiny of healthcare providers, which has led to a number. 37. Table of Contents. of investigations, prosecutions, convictions and settlements in the healthcare industry. Dealing with investigations can be time -  and resource - consuming and can divert management's attention from the business.  Any such investigation or settlement could increase our costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, because of the potential for large monetary exposure under the federal False Claims Act, which provides for treble damages and mandatory minimum penalties of $10,781.40 to $21,562.80 per false claim or statement made after November 2, 2015 and $5,500 to $11,000 for claims or statements before that date, healthcare providers often resolve allegations without admissions of liability for significant and material amounts to avoid the uncertainty of treble damages that may be awarded in litigation proceedings, including qui tam or whistleblower suits brought by private individuals on behalf of the government. Such settlements often contain additional compliance and reporting requirements as part of a consent decree, settlement agreement or corporate integrity agreement. Given the significant size of actual and potential settlements, it is expected that the government will continue to devote substantial resources to investigating healthcare providers' compliance with the healthcare reimbursement rules and fraud and abuse laws.. State governments have also increased enforcement efforts against healthcare providers in connection with anti - fraud, physician self - referral and other laws. We may be especially susceptible to enforcement risks in states where we have large concentrations of business and in states in which we establish new JVs but in which we may be unfamiliar with the regulatory requirements. To the extent that we become the subject of such enforcement activities, in addition to any adverse legal consequences, such enforcement could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and result in adverse publicity.. In particular, the dialysis services industry has been subject to scrutiny by the federal government, and some of our competitors have been or are currently under investigation. In 2015, one of our competitors paid the federal government a substantial amount to settle allegations of illegal kickbacks under the False Claims Act and was required to enter into a corporate integrity agreement with the OIG, under which an independent monitor was appointed to review and supervise certain aspects of its business. In January 2017, the Company and, we believe based on publicly available information, other dialysis companies received subpoenas from the United States Attorney's Office, District of Massachusetts, requesting information relating to payments to and other interactions with the AKF, any efforts to educate patients qualified or enrolled in Medicare or Medicaid about enrollment in ACA plans and other related matters under applicable healthcare laws.  See \" - Increased scrutiny in our industry and potential regulatory changes could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition\" and \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\" Certain proceedings against companies in our industry may be filed under seal, such as a whistleblower action under the federal False Claims Act. Although we cannot predict whether or when proceedings might be initiated or when these matters may be resolved, it is not unusual for these investigations to continue for a considerable period of time. Responding to these investigations can require substantial management attention and significant legal expense, which could materially adversely affect our operations. Further, in many cases the mere existence or announcement of any such inquiry could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any such investigation could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business or result in adverse publicity. Any negative findings could result in substantial financial penalties against us, exclusion from future participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, and, in some cases, criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our arrangements and relationships with our physician partners and medical directors do not satisfy all of the elements of safe harbors to the federal anti - kickback statute and certain state anti - kickback laws and, as a result, may subject us to government scrutiny or civil or criminal monetary penalties or require us to restructure such arrangements.. We endeavor to structure our JV arrangements and medical director agreements, including agreements with our chief medical officers, to comply with applicable laws and government regulations and applicable safe harbors. Our business model is focused on JVs with nephrologist partners, and we endeavor to structure these JVs in compliance with the federal anti - kickback statute, the Stark Law and analogous state anti - kickback and self - referral laws, including the exceptions applicable to Medicare ESRD services. In addition, our chief medical officers have been granted stock options in ARA and a number of our physician partners own shares of ARA as a result of common stock offerings that we have made. Substantially all of our JVs with physicians or physician groups also involve the provision of medical director services by our nephrologist partners to those clinics. Under Medicare regulations, each of our dialysis clinics is required to have an active medical director who is responsible for decision - making in analyzing core processes and patient outcomes and in stimulating a team approach to continuous quality improvement and patient safety. For these services, we retain a physician on an independent contractor basis at an annual fixed fee to serve as the medical director.. We believe that our relationships with our physician partners, which include our medical directors, meet many but not all of the elements of the safe harbors to the federal anti - kickback statute and may not meet all of the elements of analogous state safe harbors. Arrangements that do not meet all of the elements of a safe harbor do not necessarily violate the applicable. 38. Table of Contents. anti - kickback statute but are susceptible to government scrutiny. The OIG has issued guidance expressing concerns about joint ventures with referring physicians and the Department of Justice has pursued actions relating to joint venture arrangements between physicians and other healthcare providers. Accordingly, there is some risk that the OIG, the Department of Justice or another government agency might investigate our JV arrangements and medical director contracts. In addition, if the government were to interpret the physician self - referral laws such that they viewed our operations to be in violation of such laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. If our arrangements with our physician partners and medical directors were investigated and determined to violate the federal anti - kickback statute, Stark Law or analogous state laws, we could be required to restructure these relationships, which we may not be able to do successfully. We could become subject to a corporate integrity agreement, which requires costly external monitors and could require changes to our operations. We could also be subjected to civil and criminal penalties and severe monetary consequences that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, including, but not limited to, the repayment of amounts received from Medicare by the offending clinics and the payment of penalties and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs. Additionally, new federal or state laws could be enacted that would construe our relationships with our physician partners as violating applicable law or result in the imposition of penalties against us or our facilities. If any of our business arrangements with physician partners were alleged or deemed to violate the federal anti - kickback statute or similar laws, or if new federal or state laws or regulations were enacted rendering these arrangements illegal, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. If our arrangements are found to violate the Stark Law, it may subject us to government scrutiny or monetary penalties or require us to restructure such arrangements.. As the Stark Law prohibits physician self - referral for certain designated health services (\"DHS\") and is a strict liability statute, we may be subject to liability due to the referral practices of our physician partners.  None of the Stark Law exceptions applicable to physician ownership interests in entities to which they make referrals for DHS apply to the kinds of ownership arrangements that our physician partners hold in our JVs. If a center bills for DHS referred by our physician partners, the claims would not be payable and the dialysis center could be subject to actions under the False Claims Act and the Stark Law penalties. See \"Item 1. Business - Government Regulation - Stark Law.\". If CMS determined that we have submitted claims in violation of the Stark Law, the claims would not be payable and we could be subject to penalties, some of which could be significant. In addition, it might be necessary to restructure existing compensation agreements with our medical directors and to repurchase or to request the sale of ownership interests in our JVs held by our physician partners or, alternatively, to refuse to accept referrals for DHS from these physicians. Any such penalties and restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. If our arrangements are found to violate state laws prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine or fee - splitting, we may not be able to operate in those states.. The laws and regulations relating to our operations vary from state to state, and many states prohibit general business corporations, as we are, from practicing medicine, controlling physicians' medical decisions or engaging in some practices such as splitting professional fees with physicians. In some states, these prohibitions are expressly stated in a statute or regulation, while in other states the prohibition is a matter of judicial or regulatory interpretation. Possible sanctions for violation of these restrictions include loss of license and civil and criminal penalties. In addition, agreements between the corporation and the physician may be considered void and unenforceable. We have endeavored to structure our activities and operations to avoid conflict with state law restrictions on the corporate practice of medicine, and we have endeavored to structure all of our corporate and operational agreements to conform to any licensure requirements, fee - splitting and related corporate practice of medicine prohibitions. However, other parties may assert that we are engaged in the corporate practice of medicine or unlawful fee - splitting despite the way we are structured. Were such allegations to be asserted successfully before the appropriate judicial or administrative forums, we could be subject to adverse judicial or administrative penalties, certain contracts could be determined to be unenforceable and we may be required to restructure our contractual arrangements. We may not be able to operate in certain states, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to CMS certification, claims processing requirements and audits, and any adverse findings in a CMS review could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. The Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rules related to claims submission, clinic and professional licensing requirements, cost reporting and payment processes impose complex and extensive requirements upon dialysis providers. A violation or departure from these requirements may result in government audits, lower reimbursements, overpayments,. 39. Table of Contents. recoupments or voluntary repayments, and the potential loss of certification to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid program. CMS has increased the frequency and intensity of its certification inspections of dialysis clinics.. We are also subject to prepayment and post - payment reviews. CMS relies on a network of multi - state, regional contractors to process Medicare claims and audit healthcare providers. In addition, CMS has established a network of privately contracted auditors, called Recovery Audit Contractors (\"RACs\"), which conduct post - payment reviews to identify improper payments made by Medicare to providers. RACs are paid on a contingency basis for all overpayments identified and recovered. CMS also has a network of Zone Program Integrity Contractors, which investigate instances of suspected fraud, waste and abuse, and may refer cases to CMS for administrative action or to law enforcement for civil or criminal prosecution. If such claims are pursued by CMS or law enforcement, the penalties may be severe and may include, but not be limited to, substantial fines and exclusion from government healthcare programs.. The ACA established a requirement for providers and suppliers to report and return any overpayments received from government payors under the Medicare and Medicaid programs within 60 days of identification and quantification. Failure to report and return such overpayments exposes the provider or supplier to False Claims Act liability. As set forth in the final rule issued by CMS on February 12, 2016, providers and suppliers have a duty to exercise reasonable diligence to determine whether a Medicare overpayment exists and the amount of the overpayment. If we fail to identify, process and refund overpayments to the government in a timely manner, or if any audit, enforcement action or payment review reveals any failure to report and return an identified overpayment or a suspected instance of fraud, waste or abuse, we could be subject to substantial costs and penalties, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Delays in Medicare and state Medicaid certification of our dialysis clinics could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We are required to obtain federal and state certification for participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs before we can begin billing for patients treated in our clinics who are enrolled in government - based programs. Due to budgetary pressures and staffing limitations, significant delays in obtaining initial certification have occurred in some states, including for our clinics, and additional delays may occur in the future. Failures or delays in obtaining certification, particularly if they become more widespread, could cause significant delays in our ability to bill for services provided to patients covered under government programs, cause us to incur write - offs of investments or accelerate the recognition of lease obligations in the event we have to close clinics or our clinics' operating performance deteriorates. This could have an adverse effect on our growth and operating results. The BBA, enacted in February 2018, allows for organizations approved by HHS to accredit dialysis facilities and imposes certain timing requirements regarding the initiation of initial surveys to determine if certain conditions and requirements for payment have been satisfied, but the ultimate impact of these changes cannot be predicted.. We may be required, as a result of future changes in our ownership structure, to comply with notification and reapplication requirements in order to maintain our licenses, permits, certifications or other authorizations to operate, and failure to do so, or an allegation that we have failed to do so, could result in payment delays, forfeitures of payments or civil and criminal penalties.. We are subject to various federal, state and local licensing and certification laws with which we must comply in order to maintain authorization to provide, or receive payment for, our services. Compliance with such requirements is complicated by the fact that such requirements differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and in some cases are not uniformly applied or interpreted even within the same jurisdiction. Failure to comply with these requirements can lead to delays in payment and refund requests as well as civil or criminal penalties.. In certain jurisdictions, changes in our ownership structure, including changes in beneficial ownership of our company, require pre - transaction or post - transaction notification to state governmental licensing and certification agencies. Relevant laws in some jurisdictions may also require reapplication or reenrollment and approval to maintain or renew our licensure, certification, contracts or other operating authority. The extent of such notices and filings may vary in each jurisdiction in which we operate.. While we intend to comply with any notification, reenrollment or reapplication requirements that may result from future changes in our ownership structure, the agencies that administer these programs could find that we have failed to comply in some manner. A finding of non - compliance and any resulting payment delays, refund demands or other sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 40. Table of Contents. Because our senior management has been key to our growth and success, we may be materially adversely affected if we lose any member of our senior management.. We are highly dependent on our senior management. Although we have employment agreements with our chairman and chief executive officer, president, chief operating officer, chief financial officer and general counsel, we do not maintain \"key man\" life insurance policies on any of our officers. Because our senior management has contributed greatly to our growth since inception, the loss of key management personnel or our inability to attract, retain and motivate sufficient members of qualified management or other personnel could have a material adverse effect on us.. If patients no longer choose to use our dialysis clinics, or if a significant number of physicians or hospitals were to cease recommending our dialysis clinics to patients, our revenues would decrease.. Our business is dependent upon patients choosing our clinics as the location for their treatments. Patients may select a clinic based, in part, on the recommendation of their physician. We believe that physicians and other clinicians typically consider a number of factors when recommending a particular dialysis facility to an ESRD patient, including, but not limited to, the quality of care at a clinic, the competency of a clinic's staff, convenient scheduling and a clinic's location and physical condition. Physicians may change their facility recommendations at any time, which may result in the transfer of our existing patients to competing clinics, including clinics established by the physicians themselves. Our business also depends on recommendations by hospitals, managed care plans, other payors and other healthcare institutions. If a significant number of providers cease recommending their patients to our clinics, this would reduce our revenue and could materially adversely affect our overall operations.. We depend on our relationships with our medical directors. Our ability to provide medical services at our facilities would be impaired and our revenues reduced if we were not able to maintain these relationships.. Each of our clinics is required by applicable regulations to have a medical director.  Our ability to attract physicians to become medical directors at our clinics is essential to the growth of our business. Our business depends, in part, on the strength of our relationships with these physicians. Our revenues would be reduced if we lost relationships with key medical directors or groups of medical directors. If we were not able to attract new medical directors or maintain existing medical director relationships, our ability to provide medical services at our facilities would be impaired. Our business also depends on the efforts and success of the physicians who are medical directors at our clinics. The efforts of these medical directors directly correlate to the patient satisfaction and operating metrics of our clinics. Any failure of these medical directors to maintain the quality of medical care provided or to otherwise adhere to professional guidelines at our clinics or any damage to the reputation of a key medical director or group of medical directors could damage our reputation, subject us to liability and significantly reduce our revenues.. The Medicare conditions for coverage for ESRD facilities require that our medical directors be board - certified in internal medicine or pediatrics by a professional board and complete a board - approved training program in nephrology. Where a physician is not available with these qualifications, we seek a waiver of this requirement for our medical director from CMS. For certain of our facilities, physicians with these qualifications are not available, and we have obtained waivers from CMS for the medical directors of these facilities. If we are unable to attract physicians with these qualifications to become our medical directors or are unable to obtain waivers of this requirement for our medical directors, it could result in the closure of facilities and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. If we cannot renew our medical director agreements or enforce the noncompetition provisions of our medical director agreements, whether due to regulatory or other reasons, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Our medical director contracts are typically for fixed initial ten - year periods with automatic renewal options. Medical directors have no obligation to extend their agreements with us. We may take actions to restructure existing relationships or take positions in negotiating extensions of relationships in an effort to meet the safe harbor provisions of the anti - kickback statute, Stark Law and other similar laws. These actions could negatively impact the decision of physicians to extend their medical director agreements with us. If the terms of any existing agreement are found to violate applicable laws, we may not be successful in restructuring the relationship which could lead to the early termination of the agreement. If a medical director agreement terminates, whether before or at the end of its term, we may be unable to find a replacement medical director with comparable qualifications, and the business, results of operations, financial condition and quality of medical services of the facility may be adversely affected.. 41. Table of Contents. Our medical director agreements generally provide for noncompetition restrictions prohibiting the medical directors from owning an interest in or serving as a medical director of a competing facility within specified geographical areas for specified periods of time. If we are unable to enforce the noncompetition provisions contained in our medical director agreements, it is possible that these medical directors may choose to provide medical director services for competing providers or establish their own dialysis clinics in competition with ours. Our inability to enforce noncompetition provisions and related patient attrition could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Our business is subject to substantial competition and could be adversely affected if we are unable to compete effectively in the dialysis services industry.. The dialysis services industry is highly competitive. Because of the lack of barriers to entry into the dialysis services business and the ability of nephrologists to be medical directors for their own clinics, competition for growth in existing and expanding markets is not limited to large competitors with substantial financial resources. According to CMS data, there were more than 6,800 dialysis clinics in the United States as of November 1, 2017. We face competition from large and medium - sized providers for patients and for the acquisition of existing dialysis clinics. We face particularly intense competition for the identification of nephrologists, whether as attending physicians, medical directors or physician partners. In many instances, our competitors have taken steps to include comprehensive non - competition provisions within various agreements, thereby limiting the ability of physicians to serve as medical directors or potential joint venture partners for competing dialysis clinics. These non - competition provisions often contain both time and geographic limitations during the term of the agreement and for a period of years thereafter. Such non - competition provisions may limit our ability to compete effectively for nephrologists. In addition, the dialysis services industry has undergone rapid consolidation. As of the end of 2014, according to the USRDS 2016 Annual Data Report, Fresenius Medical Care and DaVita accounted for 68.9% of dialysis patients in the United States. The largest not - for - profit provider of dialysis services, Dialysis Clinic, Inc., accounted for 3.1% of dialysis patients in the United States. Hospital - based providers accounted for 4.0% of dialysis patients in the United States, while independent providers and small -  and medium - sized dialysis organizations, including our company, collectively accounted for the remainder. Since the time of the data reported in the USRDS 2016 Annual Data Report, consolidation has increased due to recent acquisitions, intensifying competition in the dialysis services industry. If we are unable to compete effectively in the dialysis services industry, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Our competitors have increasingly adopted a JV model and compete with us for establishing de novo clinics, acquiring existing dialysis clinics and engaging medical directors, which could materially adversely impact our growth prospects.. The development, acquisition and operation of dialysis clinics is highly competitive. Our competition comes from other dialysis clinics, many of which are owned by much larger public companies, small to mid - sized private companies, acute care hospitals, nursing homes and physician groups. The dialysis services industry is rapidly consolidating, resulting in several large dialysis services companies competing with us for the acquisition of existing dialysis clinics and the development of relationships with nephrologists to serve as medical directors for new clinics. Over the past few years, several dialysis companies, including some of our largest competitors, have adopted a JV model of dialysis clinic ownership, resulting in increased competition in the development, acquisition and operation of JV dialysis clinics. Competition to develop clinics using a JV model could materially adversely affect our growth as well as our operating results and financial condition. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources, more dialysis clinics, a significantly larger patient base and are vertically integrated, and, accordingly may be able to achieve better economies of scale by asserting leverage against their suppliers, payors and other commercial parties. In addition, because of the ease of entry into the dialysis business and the ability of physicians to serve as medical directors for their own centers, competition for growth in existing and expanding markets is not limited to large competitors with substantial financial resources. We may experience competition from former medical directors or attending physicians who open their own dialysis centers. If we face a reduction in the number of our medical directors or physician partners, it could adversely affect our business.. Deteriorations in economic conditions, particularly in states where we operate a large number of clinics, as well as disruptions in the financial markets could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.. Deteriorations in economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Among other things, the potential decline in federal and state revenues that may result from these conditions may create additional pressures to contain or reduce reimbursements for our services from Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored programs. Our business may be particularly sensitive to economic conditions in certain states in which we operate a large number of clinics, such as Florida (43 clinics), Texas (22 clinics), Georgia (20 clinics), Ohio (17 clinics), Pennsylvania (15. 42. Table of Contents. clinics), Colorado (13 clinics), Massachusetts (12 clinics) and others. In addition, to the extent that commercial payors are adversely affected by a decline in the economy, we may experience further pressure on commercial rates, delays in fee collections and a reduction in the amounts we are able to collect. Any or all of these factors, as well as other consequences of a deterioration in economic conditions which currently cannot be anticipated, could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.. If we fail to comply with current or future laws or regulations governing the collection, processing, storage, access, use, security and privacy of personally identifiable, protected health or other sensitive or confidential information, our business, reputation and profitability could suffer.. The privacy and security of personally identifiable, protected health and other sensitive or confidential information that is collected, stored, maintained, received or transmitted in any form or media is a major issue in the healthcare industry. Along with our own confidential data and information, we collect, process, use and store a large amount of such hard - copy and electronic data and information from our patients and employees. We must comply with numerous federal and state laws and regulations governing the collection, processing, sharing, access, use, security and privacy of personally identifiable information, including protected health information (\"PHI\"). Such laws and regulations include but are not limited to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing regulations and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 and its implementing regulations (collectively, \"HIPAA\"), and state data breach disclosure laws. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, regulations and standards, properly protect the integrity and security of our facilities and systems and the data located within them, protect our proprietary rights to our systems or defend against cybersecurity attacks, or if our third - party service providers fail to do any of the foregoing with respect to data and information accessed, used or collected on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Privacy laws, including those that specifically cover PHI, are changing rapidly and subject to differing interpretations. New laws, regulations and standards relating to privacy and security, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we must handle healthcare - related data, and the cost of monitoring and complying with such laws, regulations and standards could be significant. In addition, governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy and security could be interpreted, enforced or applied to our operations in a manner adverse to us. If we do not properly comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to PHI, we could be subject to threatened or actual civil or criminal proceedings, investigations, actions, monetary fines, civil penalties or sanctions by government entities, consumer advocacy groups, private individuals or others.. Information security risks have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct our operations and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties, including foreign state agents. Our business and operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks, as well as those of our third - party service providers, including sensitive personal information, such as PHI, social security numbers and credit card information of our patients, physicians, business partners and others.. We address our information and data security needs by relying on applicable members of our staff and third parties, including auditors and third - party service providers. We have implemented administrative, physical and technical safeguards to ensure the security of personally identifiable, protected health and other sensitive or confidential information that we collect, process, store, access or use, and we take commercially reasonable actions to ensure that our third - party service providers are taking appropriate security measures to protect the data and information they access, use or collect on our behalf. However, these measures cannot provide absolute security. Despite these efforts, our facilities and systems and those of our third - party service providers, as well as the data that they hold, may be vulnerable to security attacks and breaches caused by acts of vandalism, fraud or theft, computer viruses, criminal activity, coordinated attacks by activist entities, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable services or sabotage systems change frequently, may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world and generally are not recognized until launched against us, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Emerging and advanced security threats, including coordinated attacks, require additional layers of security that may disrupt or impact efficiency of operations.. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, corruption or other unauthorized disclosure or use of personally identifiable, protected health or other sensitive or confidential information, including financial data, competitively sensitive information or other proprietary data, whether suffered by us or one of our third - party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. The occurrence of. 43. Table of Contents. any of the foregoing events to us or a third - party service provider could result in business interruptions and delays, cessations in the availability of systems and our ability to provide services, potential liability and regulatory action, harm or loss to our reputation and relationships with our patients and vendors, investigations, monetary fines, civil or criminal suits, civil penalties or criminal sanctions, as well as significant costs, including as they relate to legal requirements to disclose the breach publicly, repairing any system damage, incentives offered to patients or others to maintain business relationships after a breach and the implementation of measures to prevent future breaches. Any of the foregoing may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and our business reputation. In addition, concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personally identifiable, protected health and other sensitive or confidential information, even if unfounded and even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, could damage our reputation and harm our business.. Complications associated with implementing an electronic medical records system could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and operating results.. We have selected an electronic medical record (\"EMR\") system for implementation at an increasing number of our facilities in the future. The cost of implementing an EMR system at our facilities may be significant, and the system's launch may be unsuccessful or may result in inefficiencies. Defects or design issues with the EMR may increase costs and subject us to additional regulatory risks. For example, problems with system implementation and operation may increase the likelihood of or cause noncompliance with federal and state security and privacy laws such as HIPAA and with requirements imposed by third - party payors. If such issues were to arise, they could materially adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and operating results.. We may be subject to liability claims for malpractice, professional liability and other matters that could harm our reputation or result in damages and other expenses not covered by insurance that could adversely impact us.. Our business, and in particular the administration of dialysis services to patients subjects us to litigation and liability for damages based on an allegation of malpractice, professional negligence in the performance of our treatment and related services, the acts or omissions of our employees, or other matters. Our exposure to this litigation and liability for damages increases with growth in the number of our clinics and treatments performed. Potential judgments, settlements or costs relating to potential future claims, complaints or lawsuits could result in substantial damages and could subject us to the incurrence of significant fees and costs. In addition, our business, reputation profitability and growth prospects could suffer if we face negative publicity in connection with such claims, including claims related to adverse patient events, contractual disputes, professional and general liability, workplace behavior or other personnel matters and directors' and officers' duties. We maintain liability insurance in amounts that we believe are appropriate for our operations, including professional and general liability insurance. Our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us, and insurance coverage may not continue to be available at a cost satisfactory to us to allow for the maintenance of adequate levels of insurance. If we incur damages or defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of any applicable insurance coverage or if one or more successful claims against us exceeds the coverage limit of our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Our insurance costs have been increasing substantially over the last several years, and our coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims and losses.. We maintain a program of insurance coverage against a broad range of risks in our business, including professional liability insurance, which is subject to deductibles. The premiums and deductibles under our insurance program have been increasing over the last several years as a result of general business rate increases. We are unable to predict further increases in premiums and deductibles, but based on recent experience, we expect further increases in premiums and deductibles, which could adversely impact our earnings. The liability exposure of operations in the healthcare services industry has increased, resulting not only in increased premiums but also in limitations on the liability covered by insurance carriers. We may not be able to obtain necessary or sufficient insurance coverage for our operations upon expiration of our insurance policies, or obtain any insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we could be materially and adversely affected by the collapse or insolvency of our insurance carriers.. Material decisions regarding our dialysis clinics may require the consent of our joint venture partners, and we may not be able to resolve disputes.. Our joint venture partners, who may be single practitioners, an affiliated group of nephrologists, hospitals or multi - practice institutions, participate in material strategic and operating decisions we make for our clinics. For example, we. 44. Table of Contents. generally must obtain the consent of our joint venture partners before making any material amendments to the operating agreement for the dialysis clinic or admitting additional members. The operating agreement for a clinic may provide that we cannot take certain specified actions affecting that clinic without the consent of the joint venture partner(s) for that clinic. Such actions may include (i) a sale, transfer, liquidation or reorganization of all or substantially all of the clinic, or a merger or dissolution of the clinic, (ii) a lease of all or substantially all of the clinic, (iii) the admission of a new or substituted member, (iv) an amendment or modification of the applicable operating agreement or the constituent documents for the clinic, (v) certain transactions with affiliates, (vi) any capital calls except to the extent specifically provided, (vii) any hiring or firing of certain key employees of the clinic, (viii) entering into borrowing arrangements on behalf of the clinic or incurring other liabilities, in each case, exceeding specified amounts, and (ix) entering into any material agreements on behalf of the clinic where annual payments exceed a specified amount. The rights of our joint venture partners to approve material decisions could limit our ability to take actions that we believe are in our best interest and the best interest of the dialysis clinic. Some of our joint venture partners may have interests in multiple clinics, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully negotiate or resolve disputes with such partners to the extent they have approval rights over material decisions for a number of clinics. We may not be able to resolve favorably, or at all, any dispute regarding material decisions with our joint venture partners.. We may be required to purchase the ownership interests of our physician partners, which may require additional debt or equity financing, and in certain limited circumstances some of our physician partners may have the right to purchase our JV ownership interests.. A substantial number of our JV operating agreements grant our physician partners rights to require us to purchase their ownership interests, at the estimated fair value as defined within the applicable JV operating agreement, at certain set times or upon the occurrence of certain triggering events. Our nephrologist partners in each JV are generally required to collectively maintain a minimum percentage, most commonly at least 20%, of the total outstanding membership interests in the clinic following the exercise of their put rights. Event - based triggers of these rights in various JV operating agreements may include the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, closure of the clinic, change of control, departure of key executives, third-party members' death, disability, bankruptcy, retirement, or if third-party members are dissolved and other events. Time - based triggers give physician partners at certain of our clinics the option to require us to purchase previously agreed upon percentages of their ownership interests at certain set dates. The time when some of the time - based put rights are exercisable may be accelerated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as those noted above.. The estimate of the fair values of the interests subject to these put provisions is a critical accounting estimate that involves significant judgments and assumptions and may not be indicative of the actual values at which these obligations may ultimately be settled in the future. The estimated fair values of the interests subject to these put provisions can also fluctuate, and the implicit multiple of earnings at which these obligations may be settled will vary depending upon clinic performance, market conditions and access to the credit and capital markets. As of December 31, 2017, we had recorded liabilities of approximately $107.7 million for all existing time - based obligations, of which we have estimated approximately $12.2 million were accelerated as a result of physicians with IPO put rights having elected to exercise or may potentially exercise the puts, and approximately $32.2 million for all existing event - based obligations to our physician partners. The funds required to honor our put obligations may make it difficult for us to meet our other debt obligations, including obligations under our credit facilities or require us to incur additional indebtedness or issue additional common stock to fund such purchases.. In addition, in certain limited circumstances, some of our JV operating agreements grant our physician partners rights to purchase our JV ownership interests. A limited number of our JV operating agreements do not exist in perpetuity and give our physician partners the right to purchase all of our membership interests within a specified period, at fair market value or otherwise dissolve the JV. In the event of a change of control transaction, such as a merger or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or stock to a third party, some of our physician partners would have the right to purchase all of our JV ownership interests or require us to offer to sell our JV ownership interests to them, at a purchase price based on, in part, the transaction valuation. These provisions could adversely affect the value of our company to a potential acquirer and our ability to fully realize the value of a change of control transaction.. We may have a special legal responsibility to our physician partners, which may conflict with, and prevent us from acting solely in, our own best interests.. We generally hold our ownership interests in facilities through JVs in which we maintain an ownership interest along with physicians. As majority managing member of most of our JVs, we may have fiduciary duties under state laws to manage these entities in the best interests of the minority interest holders. We may encounter conflicts between our responsibility to further the interests of these physician partners and our own best interests. For example, we have entered into management agreements to provide management services to the dialysis clinics in exchange for a fee. Disputes may arise as to the nature of the services to be provided or the amount of the fee to be paid. Disputes may also arise between us and our physician partners. 45. Table of Contents. with respect to a particular business decision or regarding the interpretation of the provisions of the applicable JV operating agreement. In addition, disputes may arise as to the amounts and timing of distributions we make to our physician partners. In these cases, we may be obligated to exercise reasonable, good faith judgment to resolve the disputes and may not be free to act solely in our own best interests. We seek to avoid these disputes and have not implemented any measures to resolve these conflicts if they arise. If we are unable to resolve a dispute on terms favorable or satisfactory to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Shortages of qualified skilled clinical personnel, or higher than normal turnover rates, could affect our ability to grow and deliver quality, timely and cost - effective care services.. We depend on qualified nurses and other skilled clinical personnel to provide quality service to patients in our clinics. Competition is intense for qualified nurses, technical staff and nephrologists. We depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled clinical personnel to support our growth and generate revenues. There is currently a shortage of skilled clinical personnel in many of the markets in which we operate our clinics as well as markets in which we are considering opening new clinics. This nursing shortage may adversely affect our ability to grow or, in some cases, to replace existing staff, thereby leading to disruptions in our services. In addition, this shortage of skilled clinical personnel and the more stressful working conditions it creates for those remaining in the profession are increasingly viewed as a threat to patient safety and may trigger the adoption of state and federal laws and regulations intended to reduce that risk. For example, some states have adopted or are considering legislation that would prohibit forced overtime for nurses or establish mandatory staffing level requirements.. In response to the shortage of skilled clinical personnel, we have increased and are likely to have to continue to increase our wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses or to engage contract nurses at a higher expense until we hire permanent staff nurses. We may not be able to increase the rates we charge to offset increased costs. The shortage of skilled clinical personnel may in the future delay our ability to achieve our operational goals at a dialysis clinic by limiting the number of patients we are able to service. The shortage of skilled clinical personnel also makes it difficult for us in some markets to reduce personnel expense at our clinics by implementing a temporary reduction in the size of the skilled clinical personnel staff during periods of reduced patient admissions and procedure volumes. In addition, we believe that retention of skilled clinical personnel is an important factor in a patient's decision to continue receiving treatment at one of our clinics. If we are unable to hire skilled clinical personnel when needed, or if we experience a higher than normal turnover rate for our skilled clinical personnel, our operations and treatment growth will be negatively impacted, which would result in reduced revenues, earnings and cash flows.. Growing numbers of skilled clinical personnel are also joining unions that threaten and sometimes call work stoppages. Although we do not currently directly employ personnel that are members of a union, we lease employees in New York and the District of Columbia that are members of unions. Accordingly, we are required to abide by certain laws, regulations and procedures in our interactions with these employees. Union organizing activities at our clinics could adversely affect our operating costs, our employee relations, productivity, earnings and cash flows. If union organizing activities or other national or local trends result in an increase in labor and employment costs or claims, including class action lawsuits, our operating costs, earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness.. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had total consolidated long - term indebtedness of $515.6 million. Our high level of indebtedness could, among other consequences:.  make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, including our credit facilities, exposing us to the risk of default, which could result in a foreclosure on our assets, which, in turn, would negatively affect our ability to operate as a going concern;.  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flows for other purposes, such as capital expenditures, acquisitions and working capital;.  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;.  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. 46. Table of Contents.  place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;.  increase our cost of borrowing;.  limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and.  require us to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes.. Substantially all of our indebtedness is floating rate debt. We are exposed to interest rate volatility to the extent such interest rate risk is not hedged. We have and may continue to enter into swaps or other derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to floating interest rates as described under \" - We utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in interest rates on our variable rate indebtedness and we will be exposed to risks related to counterparty creditworthiness or non - performance of these instruments.\". Our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions.. Our credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things:. incur additional indebtedness;. incur liens;. make investments and sell assets;. pay dividends and make other distributions;. purchase our stock;. engage in business activities unrelated to our current business;. enter into transactions with affiliates; or. consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. In addition, under our credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of those covenants could result in a default under our credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facilities, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are limited in how we conduct our business, and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable immediately.. This, in turn, could cause our other debt, including debt under our credit facilities, to become due and payable as a result of cross - default or acceleration provisions contained in the agreements governing such other debt. In the event that some or all of our debt is accelerated and becomes immediately due and payable, we may not have the funds to repay, or the ability to refinance, such debt.. Our ability to repay our indebtedness depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions to us.. We are a holding company. We have no operations of our own and derive all of our revenues and cash flow from our joint venture and other subsidiaries. We depend on our joint venture subsidiaries for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness. The earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or. 47. Table of Contents. loans to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness when such payments are due. Legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing current and future indebtedness and our joint ventures, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, limit our ability to obtain cash from our joint ventures. Such agreements, including the agreements governing our credit facilities and joint ventures, may restrict our subsidiaries from providing us with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans to fund interest and principal payments on our indebtedness when due. In addition, our operating agreements generally provide that distributions may only be made to us if at the same time we make pro rata distributions to our joint venture partners, and accordingly, a significant portion of our cash flows is used to make distributions to our joint venture partners and is not available to service our indebtedness. Further, if our subsidiaries' operating performance declines or if our subsidiaries are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments on indebtedness, or if our subsidiaries otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing their indebtedness, our subsidiaries could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. Under such a scenario, our subsidiaries would need to seek to obtain waivers from their lenders to avoid being in default, which they may not be able to obtain. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our subsidiaries' assets, and our subsidiaries could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. We utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in interest rates on our variable rate indebtedness, and we will be exposed to risks related to counterparty creditworthiness or non - performance of these instruments.. In March 2017, we entered into a forward starting interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $133 million and two interest rate cap agreements with notional amounts totaling $147 million, as a means of reducing our exposure to the floating interest rate component on $440 million of our variable rate debt under our term loans. The swap and interest rate caps are designated as a cash flow hedge, with a termination date of March 31, 2021. We may enter into additional interest rate swaps or other derivative financial instruments to further limit our exposure to changes in variable interest rates. Such instruments may result in economic losses should interest rates decline to a point lower than our fixed rate commitments. We will be exposed to credit - related losses, which could impact our results of operations in the event of fluctuations in the fair value of the interest rate swaps due to a change in the creditworthiness or non - performance by the counterparties to our derivative financial instruments.. We are required to pay our pre - IPO stockholders for certain tax benefits, which amounts are expected to be material.. In connection with our initial public offering, we entered into an income tax receivable agreement (the \"TRA\") for the benefit of our pre - IPO stockholders that provides for the payment by us to our pre - IPO stockholders on a pro rata basis of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we actually realize as a result of any deductions (including net operating losses resulting from such deductions) attributable to the exercise of (or any payment, including any dividend equivalent right or payment, in respect of) any compensatory stock option issued by us that was outstanding (whether vested or unvested) as of the day before the date of our IPO prospectus (such stock options, \"Relevant Stock Options\" and such deductions, \"Option Deductions\").. These payment obligations are our obligations and not obligations of any of our subsidiaries. The actual amount and timing of any payments under the TRA will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future, whether and when any Relevant Stock Options are exercised and the value of our common stock at the time of such exercise. We expect that during the term of the TRA the payments that we make will be material. Such payments will reduce the liquidity that would otherwise have been available to us. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Income Tax Receivable Agreement.\". In addition, the TRA provides that upon certain mergers, consolidations, acquisitions, asset sales, other changes of control (including changes of continuing directors) or our complete liquidation, the TRA is terminable with respect to certain Relevant Stock Options at the election of Centerbridge Capital Partners, L.P. (together with its affiliates, \"Centerbridge\") (or its assignee). If Centerbridge (or its assignee) elects to terminate the TRA with respect to such Relevant Stock Options, we will be required to make a payment equal to the present value of future payments under the TRA with respect to such Relevant Stock Options, which payment would be based on certain assumptions, including those relating to our future taxable income. Upon such termination, our obligations under the TRA could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of reducing the amount otherwise payable to stockholders in a change of control transaction or delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, consolidations, acquisitions, asset sales or other changes of control. If Centerbridge (or its assignee) does not elect to terminate the TRA with respect to such Relevant Stock Options upon a change of control, subsequent. 48. Table of Contents. payments under the TRA will be calculated assuming that we have sufficient taxable income to utilize any available Option Deductions, in which case we may be required to make payments under the TRA that exceed our actual cash savings as a result of the Option Deductions in the taxable year.. The TRA provides that in the event that we breach any of our material obligations under it, whether as a result of our failure to make any payment when due (subject to a specified cure period), failure to honor any other material obligation under it or by operation of law as a result of the rejection of it in a case commenced under the United States Bankruptcy Code or otherwise, then all our payment and other obligations under the TRA could be accelerated and become due and payable applying the same assumptions described above. Such payments could be substantial and could exceed our actual cash tax savings under the TRA.. Additionally, we generally have the right to terminate the TRA upon certain changes of control or following December 31, 2018 (whether or not any change of control has occurred). If we terminate the TRA, our payment and other obligations under the TRA will be accelerated and will become due and payable, also applying assumptions similar to those described above, except that if we terminate the TRA at a time during which any Relevant Stock Options remain outstanding, the value of the common stock that would be delivered as a result of the exercise of such Relevant Stock Options will be assumed to be the value of our common stock at such time plus a premium on such value, determined as of the date the TRA is terminated (the \"Applicable Premium\"). The Applicable Premium is 40% if we terminate the TRA on or before the second anniversary of the date we enter into the TRA, 30% if we terminate the TRA after the second anniversary but on or before the third anniversary of such date, 20% if we terminate the TRA after the third anniversary but on or before the fourth anniversary of such date, 10% if we terminate the TRA after the fourth anniversary but on or before the fifth anniversary of such date and 0% if we terminate the TRA after the fifth anniversary of such date. Any such termination payments could be substantial and could exceed our actual cash tax savings under the TRA.. Our pre - IPO stockholders will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the TRA if the tax benefits giving rise to any payments under the TRA are subsequently disallowed (although future payments would be adjusted to the extent possible to reflect the result of such disallowance). As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the TRA in excess of our cash tax savings.. Because we are a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to make payments under the TRA is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us. To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the TRA, such payments will generally accrue interest at a rate equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\") plus 500 basis points from the due date until paid; however, if we are unable to make payments under the TRA because we do not have sufficient cash to make such payments as a result of limitations imposed by existing credit agreements to which we or any of our subsidiaries is a party, such payments will accrue interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus 100 basis points from the due date until paid.. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile and fluctuate substantially. As a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price.. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to fluctuate substantially as a result of many factors, some of which are beyond our control. For example, since January 1, 2017, the trading price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange has ranged from a low of $9.91 to a high of $23.30 through March 5, 2018.  These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of the value of your investment in our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include the following:.  performance of third parties on whom we rely to operate our clinics, including their ability to comply with regulatory requirements;.  the success of, and fluctuation in, the revenue generated from our clinics;.  execution of our operations and other aspects of our business plan;.  results of operations that vary from those of our competitors and the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. 49. Table of Contents.  changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors;.  investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives;.  our announcement of significant contracts, acquisitions, or capital commitments;.  announcements by our competitors of competing clinics;.  announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us;.  regulatory and reimbursement developments in the United States;.  future sales of our common stock;.  additions or departures of key personnel and physician partners; and.  disruptions in government operations or general domestic and international economic conditions unrelated to our performance.. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance of individual companies. These broad market factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. Any securities class action suit against us could result in significant liabilities and, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of our management's attention and resources.. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion, and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition, and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions, implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by covenants of our existing outstanding indebtedness and may be limited by covenants of any future indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including pursuant to our credit agreement. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial amount of our common shares could depress the trading price of our common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, we have a total of 32,034,439 shares of common stock outstanding.  Of those shares, 12,771,973 shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, though certain shares remain subject to continued service vesting requirements.  The remaining 19,262,466 shares are held by our affiliates, including our directors, executive officers and other affiliates (including Centerbridge) and are \"restricted securities\" within the meaning of Rule 144 of the Securities Act (\"Rule 144\") subject to certain restrictions on resale.  Restricted securities may be sold in the public market only if they are registered under the Securities Act or are sold pursuant to an exemption from registration such as Rule 144. Pursuant to our amended and restated registration rights agreement, we have filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\") for the resale of our common stock by Centerbridge, Joe Carlucci, our Chief Executive Officer, and Syed Kamal, our President. Shares covered by such registration statement represented approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. These outstanding shares of common stock would become freely tradable without compliance with Rule 144 upon any sale pursuant to the registration statement following its effectiveness.. 50. Table of Contents. As restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders sell their shares pursuant to the registration statement, the market price of our shares of common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our shares of common stock or other securities.. As of December 31, 2017, we have outstanding options to purchase 5,280,261 shares of our common stock. In addition, we have 3,043,222 shares reserved for future issuance under our 2016 Omnibus Incentive Plan. We have registered all of the common stock subject to outstanding stock options and other equity awards, as well as shares reserved for future issuance, under our 2016 Omnibus Incentive Plan. Accordingly, shares registered under such registration statements are generally available for sale in the open market, subject to our trading policies and, in the case of shares held by our officers and directors, to volume limits under Rule 144.. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then - outstanding shares of our common stock. Any issuance of additional securities in connection with investments or acquisitions may result in additional dilution to you.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. Centerbridge controls us and its interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, Centerbridge beneficially owns approximately 55% of our outstanding common stock. Investment funds associated with or designated by Centerbridge have the ability to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payment of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence or modification of debt by us, amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and the entering into of extraordinary transactions, and their interests may not in all cases be aligned with your interests. In addition, Centerbridge may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. For example, Centerbridge could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness. Centerbridge may direct us to make significant changes to our business operations and strategy, including with respect to, among other things, clinic openings and closings, sales of other assets, employee headcount levels and initiatives to reduce costs and expenses.. Centerbridge is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that neither Centerbridge nor any director who is not employed by us (including any non - employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his director and officer capacities) nor his or her affiliates have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate.. So long as Centerbridge continues to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, Centerbridge will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. In addition, so long as Centerbridge continues to maintain this ownership, it will be able effectively to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. The concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock.. 51. Table of Contents. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and the rules of the SEC. As a result, we qualify for, and intend to continue to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other companies.. Centerbridge beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NYSE. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including:.  the requirement that a majority of its board of directors consist of \"independent directors\" as defined under the rules of the NYSE;.  the requirement that it have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of directors meeting the NYSE independence standards applicable to compensation committee members with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities;.  the requirement that its compensation committee be responsible for hiring and overseeing of persons acting as compensation consultants and be required to consider certain independence factors when engaging such persons;.  the requirement that it have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and.  the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees.. We have elected to utilize certain of these exemptions, and we may continue to use some or all of these exemptions in the future. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, amended and restated stockholders agreement and under Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and amended and restated stockholders agreement contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may believe advantageous. These provisions include:.  establishing a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time;.  authorizing \"blank check\" preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt;.  limiting the ability of stockholders to call a special stockholder meeting;.  limiting the ability of stockholders to act by written consent;.  establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings;.  allowing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 662/3% in voting power of all the then - outstanding shares of our stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, if Centerbridge holds less than 40% in voting power of the stock of our company; and.  specifying that certain provisions may be amended only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 662/3% in voting power of all the then - outstanding shares of our stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, if Centerbridge holds less than 40% in voting power of the stock of our company but still has the right to nominate directors to, or has its director nominees serving on, our board of directors.. 52. Table of Contents. Additionally, we have opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"). Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation includes a similar provision, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder (generally a person that together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of which the person became an interested stockholder), unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that Centerbridge and any of its respective direct or indirect transferees, and any group as to which such persons are party, do not constitute interested stockholders for purposes of this provision.. These anti - takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares.. We are an emerging growth company and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the \"JOBS Act\"). For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies, including, among other things:.  exemption from the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002;.   reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements;.  exemption from the requirements of holding non - binding stockholder votes on executive compensation arrangements; and.  exemption from any rules requiring mandatory audit firm rotation and auditor discussion and analysis and, unless the SEC otherwise determines, any future audit rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.. We will be an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) December 31, 2021, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three - year period, issued more than $1 billion in non - convertible debt or (iv) the first day of the first fiscal year after we have more than $700 million in aggregate market value of outstanding common equity held by our non - affiliates as of the last day of our second fiscal quarter.. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we continue to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will continue to be required to devote substantial time to comply with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements, in order to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the Sarbanes - Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE. These costs will further increase after we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. It may become more difficult or more costly for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage when we renew our current policy.. The Sarbanes - Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, as a public company, we are required to perform system and process evaluations and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and in the future our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act. As described above, as an emerging growth company, we may not need to comply with the auditor attestation provisions of Section 404 for several years. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are. 53. Table of Contents. deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and that management expend time on compliance - related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause our stock price to decline.. When the available exemptions under the JOBS Act, as described above, cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with the applicable regulatory and corporate governance requirements. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may continue to incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs."
