[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our performance is dependent on our ability to manage complex operational, financial, legal, and regulatory risks and uncertainties throughout our operations. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described below. Any of these, individually or in the aggregate, could materially adversely impair our business, financial condition or results of operations, particularly if our actual experience differs from our estimates and assumptions. While our enterprise risk management framework contains various strategies, processes, policies and procedures to address these risks and uncertainties, we cannot be certain that these measures will be implemented successfully in all circumstances. In addition, we could experience risks that we failed to identify, or risks of a magnitude greater than expected.. Economic and Investment Market Risk Factors. Our results of operations are materially affected by economic and political conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere. The strength and sustainability of economic activity is inherently uncertain. Factors such as unemployment, declining workforce participation, consumer prices, geopolitical issues, energy prices, stagnant family incomes, consumer confidence and spending, and increased student and consumer debt can adversely affect the economy and demand for our products. For example, difficult credit conditions may adversely affect purchases of credit-related insurance products, or our policyholders may choose to defer or stop paying insurance premiums, resulting in higher lapses or surrenders of policies.. Interest rates have a significant impact on our business and on consumer demand for our products. Some of our products, principally interest-sensitive life insurance and fixed annuities, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates may reduce our \"spread,\" or the difference between the amounts we earn on investment and the amount we must pay under our contracts. Persistently low (or lower) interest rates, compound this spread compression. When market interest rates decrease or remain at relatively low levels, prepayments and redemptions affecting our investment securities and mortgage loan investments may increase as issuers and borrowers seek to refinance at a lower rate. Proceeds from maturing, prepaid or sold bonds or mortgage loan investments may be reinvested at lower yields, reducing our spread. Our ability to decrease product crediting rates in response may be limited by market and competitive conditions and by regulatory or contractual minimum rate guarantees. Conversely, increases in market interest rates can also have negative effects. For example, increasing rates on other insurance or investment products offered to our customers by competitors can lead to higher surrenders at a time when fixed maturity investment asset values are lower. We may react to market conditions by increasing crediting rates, which narrows spreads. In addition, when interest rates rise, the value of our investment portfolio may decline due to decreases in the fair value of our securities. While we use ALM processes to mitigate the effect on our spreads of changes in interest rates, they may not be fully effective. See the Risk Management discussion in Item 1 above and the General Trends discussion in Part II, Item 7 below for further details about interest rates and our ALM processes.. Fluctuations in the markets for fixed maturity securities, equity securities, and commercial real estate could adversely affect our business. Investment returns are an important part of our profitability. Substantially all investments, including our fixed income, equity, real estate and mortgage loan investment portfolios, are subject to market and credit risks, including market volatility and deterioration in the credit or prospects of companies or governmental entities in which we invest. We could incur significant losses from such risks, particularly during extreme market events. The concentration of our investments in any particular industry, group of related industries or government issuers, or geographic area can compound these risks. Moreover, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has moved towards normalizing monetary policy from the programs of recent years that have fostered a historically low interest rate environment. In addition to resulting in higher interest rates, this move could generate volatility in debt and equity markets.. 13. Table of Contents. In addition to negatively affecting investment returns, equity market downturns and volatility can have other adverse effects on us. First, equity market downturns and volatility may discourage new purchases of our products that have returns linked to the performance of the equity market and may cause some existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in such products, in turn reducing our fee revenues. Second, the guarantees provided under certain products may cost more than expected in volatile or declining equity market conditions, which could negatively affect our earnings. Third, our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pension and other postretirement benefits incorporate assumptions regarding the rate used to discount estimated future liabilities and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. Declines in the discount rate or the rate of return on plan assets, both of which are influenced by potential investment returns, could increase our required cash contributions or pension-related expenses in future periods.. Some of our investments are relatively illiquid. Investments in privately placed securities, mortgage loans, and real estate, including real estate joint ventures and other equity interests, are relatively illiquid. If we suddenly require significant amounts of cash in excess of ordinary cash requirements, it may be difficult or not possible to sell these investments in an orderly manner for a favorable price.. Operational Risk Factors. Our actual experience could differ from our estimates and assumptions. Our product pricing includes long-term assumptions such as investment returns, mortality, morbidity (the rate of incidence of illness), persistency (the rate at which policies remain in-force), and operating expenses. Our profitability substantially depends on actual experience being consistent with or better than these assumptions. If we fail to appropriately price our insured risks, or if claims experience is more severe than we assumed, our earnings and financial condition may be negatively affected. Conversely, significantly overpriced risks may negatively impact new business sales and retention of existing business.. Our loss reserves are estimates of amounts needed to pay and administer incurred claims and, as such, are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent exact measures of liability. Inflationary events, especially events outside of historical norms, or regulatory changes that affect the assumptions underlying our estimates can cause variability. For example, increases in costs for auto parts and repair services, construction costs, and commodities result in higher losses for property damage claims. Accordingly, our loss reserves could prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses and related expenses. See Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Reserves for additional information.. With respect to our investments, the determination of estimates for allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Historical trends and assumed changes may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Practices, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further description of our evaluation of impairments.. Assumptions regarding the future realization of deferred tax assets are dependent upon estimating the generation of sufficient future taxable income, including capital gains. If future events differ from our current forecasts and it is determined that deferred tax assets cannot be realized, a deferred tax valuation allowance must be established, with a charge to expenses.. Interest rate fluctuations and other events may require us to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (\"DAC\"). When interest rates rise, life and annuity surrenders and withdrawals may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with higher or perceived higher returns, impacting estimates of future profits. Significantly lower future profits may cause us to accelerate DAC amortization, and such acceleration could adversely affect our results of operations to the extent such amortization exceeds any surrender or other charges earned as income upon surrender and withdrawal. See also Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Estimates, and Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  -  Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Practices, and Note 10, Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. 14. Table of Contents. We may be unable to maintain the availability and performance of our systems and safeguard our data. We rely on the availability, reliability, and security of our information-processing infrastructure, system platforms, and business applications to store, process, retrieve, calculate and evaluate customer and company information. We have developed or evolved strategies and processes to maintain and enhance our existing internal technology and processing infrastructure and our information systems and to update or replace certain information systems to keep pace with advancing technology, changing customer preferences and expectations, and increasing industry and regulatory standards. In certain lines of our business, our information technology and telecommunication systems interface with and rely upon third-party services, over which we have no direct control. We are highly dependent on the ability to access these external services for necessary business functions, such as acquiring new business, managing existing business, paying claims, and ensuring timely and accurate financial reporting. However, system failures, extended unavailability or other outages, or damage or destruction to internal or external systems, whether caused by intentional or unintentional acts or events, as well as difficulties arising from the implementation of security-threat system patches, third -party system upgrades, and new systems and technologies, could compromise our ability to perform critical functions on a timely basis. If these systems were inaccessible or inoperable, or if they fail to function effectively or as designed, the resulting disruptions may impede or interrupt our business operations.. We receive and transmit legally protected information with and among customers, agents, financial institutions and selected third party vendors and service providers. We have invested significant time and resources towards preventing and mitigating risks through security vulnerability assessments and several layers of data intrusion and detection protection technologies, designs and authentication capabilities. Our efforts may not be effective against all security threats and breach attempts in light of increasingly complex and persistent threat techniques and the evolving sophistication of individual and state-sponsored cyber-attacks. A breach, whether from external or internal sources, could result in access, viewing, misappropriation, altering or deleting information in ours or a third party's systems on which we rely, including customers' and employees' sensitive personal and financial information and our proprietary business information. Like other companies, we have experienced threats to our data and systems, including malware, seeking to gain unauthorized access to systems and data or to cause disruptions; however, to date, these have not been material to our operations. Any significant attacks, unauthorized access or disclosures, disruptions or other security breaches, whether affecting us or third parties, could result in substantial business disruption and consequences, including without limitation, costs of repairing or replacing systems, increased security costs, costs of customer notifications and credit monitoring services, lost revenues, litigation, regulatory action, fines and penalties, and reputational damage.. Employee and agent error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in significant losses. The actions or inaction of our employees, agents, producers, managing general agents, managing general underwriters and third party administrators could result in losses arising from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to properly document transactions, failure to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to maintain effective internal controls, or failure to comply with underwriting guidelines or regulatory requirements. It is not always possible to deter or prevent misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.. Our business operations depend on our ability to appropriately distribute, execute and administer our policies and claims. Our primary business is writing and servicing life, annuity, property and casualty, and health insurance for individuals, families and business. Any problems or discrepancies that arise in our pricing, underwriting, billing, processing, claims handling or other practices, whether as a result of employee error, vendor error, or technological problems, could have a negative effect on operations and reputation, particularly if such problems or discrepancies are replicated through multiple policies.. 15. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which may adversely impact our Company.. It is necessary for us to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting to prevent fraud and errors and to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures to provide timely and reliable financial and other information. In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, management concluded that our disclosure controls were not effective as of such time because of material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting related to deferred income taxes and collateral relating to our use of option derivatives. We have enhanced our internal controls with respect to these matters and concluded that our disclosure controls were effective to accomplish their objectives at the reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2017. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to prevent future material weaknesses or that there are no additional existing, but as yet undiscovered, weaknesses that we need to address. A failure to maintain adequate internal controls may adversely affect our ability to provide information that accurately reflects our financial condition on a timely basis. This could cause an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the market price of our stock if investors, customers, rating agencies, regulators or others lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, if we become subject to SEC or other regulatory review and sanctions, or if we become subject to litigation that results in substantial fines, penalties or liabilities.. Catastrophic Event Risk Factors. We may incur significant losses resulting from catastrophic events. Our property and casualty operations are exposed to catastrophes caused by natural events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, droughts, earthquakes, snow, hail and windstorms, and manmade events, such as terrorism, riots, explosions, hazardous material releases, and utility outages. Our life and health insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality or illness, such as a pandemic, an outbreak of an easily communicable disease, or another event that causes a large number of deaths or high morbidity. Our investment operations are exposed to catastrophes as a result of direct investments and mortgages related to real estate. Our operating results may vary significantly from one period to the next since the likelihood, timing, severity, number or type of catastrophe events cannot be accurately predicted. Our losses in connection with catastrophic events are primarily a function of the severity of the event and the amount of policyholder exposure in the affected area.. Some scientists believe climate change has added to the unpredictability, severity and frequency of extreme weather and loss events. To the extent climate change increases the frequency and severity of such events, we may face increased claims, and we may experience investment losses as a result of such events. Predicting the frequency and severity of extreme weather and loss events is inherently uncertain. Moreover, we cannot predict how legal, regulatory and social responses to concerns about global climate change will impact our business or the value of our investments.. The occurrence of events that are unanticipated in our business continuity and disaster recovery planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively. Our corporate headquarters is located in Galveston, Texas, on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico and in the past has been impacted by hurricanes. Our League City, Texas offices are designed to support our operations and service our policyholders in the event of a hurricane or other natural disaster affecting Galveston. The primary offices of our property and casualty insurance companies are in Springfield, Missouri and Glenmont, New York, which helps to insulate these facilities and their operations from coastal catastrophes. However, the severity, timing, duration or extent of an event may be unanticipated by our business continuity planning, which could result in an adverse impact on our ability to conduct business. In the event a significant number of our employees or agents were unavailable following such a disaster, or if our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems were affected, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be compromised.. 16. Table of Contents. Marketplace Risk Factors. Our future results are dependent in part on successfully operating in the insurance and annuity industries that are highly competitive with regard to customers and producers. Strong competition for customers has led to increased marketing and advertising by our competitors, many of whom have well-established national reputations and greater financial and marketing resources, as well as the introduction of new insurance products and aggressive pricing. In particular, our Medicare Supplement business is subject to intense price competition, which could negatively impact future sales of these products and affect our ability to offer this product. In addition, product development and life-cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to intense competition with respect to product features.. We compete for customers' funds with a variety of investment products offered by financial services companies other than insurance companies, such as banks, investment advisors, mutual fund companies and other financial institutions. Moreover, customer expectations are evolving as technology advances and consumers become accustomed to enjoying tailored, easy to-use-services and products from various industries. This is reshaping and raising consumer expectations when dealing with insurance. We are addressing these changing consumer expectations by investing in technology with a particular focus on consumer-facing sales and service platforms, by internally promoting a strategically-focused innovative culture initiative, and by creating internal forums to drive next generation solutions based on consumer insights. However, if we cannot effectively respond to increased competition and such increased consumer expectations, we may not be able to grow our business or we may lose market share.. We compete with other insurers for producers primarily on the basis of our financial position, reputation, stable ownership, support services, compensation, product features and pricing. We may be unable to compete with insurers that adopt more aggressive pricing or compensation, that offer a broader array of products or packages of products, or that have extensive promotional and advertising campaigns.. Our supplemental health business could be negatively affected by alternative healthcare providers or changes in federal healthcare policy. Our Medicare Supplement business is impacted by market trends in the senior-aged healthcare industry that provide alternatives to traditional Medicare, such as health maintenance organizations and other managed care or private plans. The success of these alternative healthcare solutions for seniors could negatively affect the sales and premium growth of traditional Medicare Supplement insurance and could impact our ability to offer such products. In addition, Congress or the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (\"HHS\") could make changes in federal healthcare policy, including Medicare that could adversely impact our supplemental health business.. Litigation and Regulation Risk Factors. Litigation may result in significant financial losses and harm our reputation. Plaintiffs may bring lawsuits, including class actions, against us relating to, among other things, sales or underwriting practices, agent misconduct, product design, product disclosure, product administration, fees charged, denial or delay of benefits, product suitability, claims-handling practices (including the permitted use of aftermarket, non-original equipment manufacturer auto parts), loss valuation methodology, refund practices, employment matters, and breaches of duties to customers. Plaintiffs may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. The damages claimed and the amount of any probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Even when successful in the defense of such actions, we could incur significant attorneys' fees, direct litigation costs and substantial amounts of management time that otherwise would be devoted to our business, and our reputation could be harmed.. 17. Table of Contents. We are subject to extensive regulation, and potential further regulation may increase our operating costs and limit our growth. We are subject to extensive insurance laws and regulations that affect nearly every aspect of our business. We are also subject to additional laws and regulations administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, such as state securities and workforce regulators, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), FINRA, the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Labor (\"DOL\"), the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (\"HUD\"), HHS, the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. We face the risk that any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal issue may conflict with that of another regulator or enforcement authority or may change over time to our detriment. Regulatory investigations, which can be broad and unpredictable, may raise issues not identified previously and could result in new legal actions against us and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect us. Further, we are experiencing increasing information requests from regulators without corresponding direct regulation being applicable to us, on issues such as climate change and our investments in certain companies or industries. Responding to such requests adds to our compliance burden.. The laws and regulations applicable to us are complex and subject to change, and compliance is time consuming and personnel-intensive. Changes in these laws and regulations, or interpretations by courts or regulators, may materially increase our costs of doing business and may result in changes to our practices that may limit our ability to grow and improve our profitability. Regulatory developments or actions against us could have material adverse financial effects and could harm our reputation. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some or all of our business activities, or made subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities.. As insurance industry practices and legal, judicial, social, and other conditions outside of our control change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These changes may include modifications to long established business practices or policy interpretations, which may adversely affect us by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the type, number, or size of claims. For example, a growing number of states have adopted legislation that is similar to the Model Unclaimed Life Insurance Benefits Act. Such legislation imposes new requirements on insurers to periodically compare their life insurance and annuity contracts and retained asset accounts against the U.S. Social Security Administration's Death Master File, investigate any potential matches, determine whether benefits are payable, and attempt to locate beneficiaries. Some states are attempting to apply these laws retroactively to existing policies. A number of states have aggressively audited life insurance companies, including us and some of our subsidiaries, for compliance with such laws, and more states could do so. Such audits have sought to identify unreported insured deaths and to determine whether any unpaid benefits, proceeds or other payments under life insurance or annuity contracts should be treated as unclaimed property to be escheated to the state. We have modified our claims process to stay current with emerging trends. It is possible that such audits may result in regulatory actions, litigation, administrative fines and penalties, interest, and additional changes to our procedures.. Federal regulatory changes and initiatives have a growing impact on us. For example, Dodd-Frank provides for enhanced federal oversight of the financial services industry through multiple initiatives. Provisions of Dodd-Frank are or may become applicable to us, our competitors, or certain entities with which we do business. For example, it is possible that regulations issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (\"CFPB\") may extend, or be interpreted to extend, to the sale of certain insurance products by covered financial institutions, which could adversely affect sales of such products. The Federal Insurance Office, as a result of various studies it conducts, may also recommend changes in laws or regulations that affect our business.. Certain federal regulation may impact our property and casualty operations. In 2013, HUD finalized a \"disparate impact\" regulation that may adversely impact our ability to differentiate pricing for homeowners policies using traditional risk selection analysis. Various legal challenges to this regulation are being pursued by the industry. If this regulation is implemented, whether or not modified by HUD, it is uncertain to what extent it may impact property and casualty industry underwriting practices. Such regulation could increase litigation costs, force changes in underwriting practices, and impair our ability to write homeowners business profitably. In addition, Congress or states may enact legislation affecting insurers' ability to use credit-based insurance scores as part of the property and casualty underwriting or rating process, which could force changes in underwriting practices and impair our property and casualty operations' ability to write homeowners business profitably.. 18. Table of Contents. There have been federal efforts to change the standards of care applicable to broker-dealers and investment advisers. In April 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor (\"DOL\") issued a regulation that will significantly expand the range of activities considered to be fiduciary investment advice under the Employee Retirement and Income Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. This regulation impacts individuals and entities that offer investment advice to purchasers of qualified retirement products, such as IRA's and qualified retirement plans. It applies ERISA's fiduciary standard to many insurance agents, broker-dealers, advisers and others not currently subject to the standard, when they sell annuities to IRA's and qualified retirement plans. Further, it prohibits such individuals from receiving commission-based compensation from such sales unless they comply with a prohibited transaction exemption under the rule. Certain parts of the rule relating to the definition of \"investment advice fiduciary\" and new and revised prohibited transaction exemptions went into effect on June 9, 2017, while additional conditions applicable to certain prohibited transaction exemptions were delayed until July 1, 2019. In addition, the DOL has asked for additional public comment regarding the rule and is further studying the potential impact of the rule. Given these developments, as well as current pending litigation challenging the rule, there is still some uncertainty about the form and timing of the rule's final implementation. Compliance with the rule may result in decreased premium on certain life and annuity products as a result of more limited sales opportunities through our current distribution arrangements. We may also experience a loss of some in-force business, as well as increased regulatory burdens and litigation risk. In addition, following a study required by Dodd-Frank, the staff of the SEC recommended a uniform fiduciary duty standard applicable to both broker-dealers and investment advisers when providing personalized investment advice to retail customers. It is not clear at the present time whether or when the SEC will ultimately implement this change. However, if implemented, it would apply a different standard of care than is currently applicable to broker-dealers and would affect how our variable insurance products are designed and sold.. International standards continue to emerge in response to the globalization of the insurance industry and evolving standards of regulation, solvency measurement and risk management. Any international conventions or mandates that directly or indirectly impact or influence the nature of U.S. regulation or industry operations could negatively affect us.. For further discussions of the kinds of regulation applicable to us, see Item 1, Business, Regulation Applicable to Our Business section.. Changes in tax laws could adversely affect our business. Under current U.S. federal and state income tax laws, certain products we offer, primarily life insurance and annuities, receive tax treatment designed to encourage consumers to purchase these products. This treatment may encourage some consumers to select our products over non-insurance products. The U.S. Congress from time to time may consider legislation that would change the taxation of insurance products and/or reduce the taxation of competing products. Such legislation, if adopted, could materially change consumer behavior, which may harm our ability to sell such products and result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the U.S. federal and state estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning. Uncertainty regarding the tax structure in the future may also cause some current or future purchasers to delay or indefinitely postpone the purchase of products we offer.. On December 22, 2017, the federal government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Reform\"). Tax Reform makes broad and complex changes to federal corporate tax law that we expect will have a significant impact on our provision for taxes. The effects of Tax Reform are not yet entirely clear and will depend on, among other things, additional regulatory and administrative guidance, as well as any statutory technical corrections that are subsequently enacted. Tax Reform, or any related, similar or amended legislation or other changes in federal income tax laws, could adversely affect the federal income taxation of our ongoing operations and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. New accounting rules or changes to existing accounting rules could negatively impact our business. We are required to comply with GAAP. A number of organizations are instrumental in the development and interpretation of GAAP, such as the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. GAAP is subject to review by these organizations and others and is, therefore, subject to change in ways that could change the current accounting treatments we apply.. 19. Table of Contents. We also must comply with statutory accounting principles (\"SAP\") in our insurance operations. SAP and various components of SAP (such as actuarial reserving methodology) are subject to review by the NAIC and its taskforces and committees, as well as state insurance departments.. Future changes to GAAP or SAP could impact our product profitability, reserve and capital requirements, financial condition or results of operations. See Note 3, Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion regarding the impact of the recently issued accounting pronouncements and the future adoption of new accounting standards on the Company.. Reinsurance and Counterparty Risk Factors. Reinsurance may not be available, affordable, adequate or collectible to protect us against losses. As part of our risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks that we underwrite. Market conditions and geo-political events beyond our control, including the continued threat of terrorism, influence the availability and cost of reinsurance for new business. In certain circumstances, the price of existing reinsurance contracts may also increase. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Our reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or they may not pay these balances on a timely basis.. The counterparties to derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks could default or fail to perform. We enter into derivative contracts, such as options, with a number of counterparties to hedge various business risks. If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations, our economic hedges of the related risks will be ineffective. Such counterparty failures could have a material adverse effect on us. See Note 7, Derivative Instruments, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.. Other Risk Factors. Our financial strength ratings could be downgraded. Various Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (\"NRSROs\") publish financial strength ratings as their opinion of an insurance company's creditworthiness and ability to meet policyholder and contractholder obligations. As with other rated companies, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notices by any NRSRO. A downgrade or an announced potential downgrade of our financial strength ratings could have multiple adverse effects on us including:. <U+0095>   reducing new sales of insurance and annuity products or increasing the number or amount of surrenders and withdrawals;. <U+0095>   affecting our relationships with our sales force, independent sales intermediaries and credit counterparties;. <U+0095>   requiring us to offer higher crediting rates or greater policyholder guarantees on our insurance products in order to remain competitive; and. <U+0095>   affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices.. It is likely that the NRSROs will continue to apply a high level of scrutiny to financial institutions, including us and our competitors, and may adjust the capital, risk management and other requirements employed in the NRSRO models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.. 20. Table of Contents. We are controlled by a small number of stockholders. As of December 31, 2017, the Moody Foundation, a charitable trust, beneficially owned approximately 22.7% of our common stock. In addition, Moody National Bank, in its capacity as trustee or agent of various accounts, had the power to vote approximately 49.1% of our common stock as of such date. As a result, subject to applicable legal and regulatory requirements, these stockholders have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval, including the composition of our Board of Directors, and through the Board of Directors any determination with respect to our business direction and policies. This concentration of voting power could deter a change of control or other business combination that might be beneficial or preferable to other stockholders. It may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock if controlling stockholders sell a significant number of shares or if investors perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company controlled by a small number of stockholders.. See also Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, for additional details regarding certain risks that we face."
