[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully read the risks described below and other information in this Form 10-K in order to understand certain of the risks of our business.. Our business is heavily regulated and, as a result, decisions by regulatory agencies and changes in laws and regulations can significantly affect our business. GSWC's revenues depend substantially on the rates and fees it charges its customers and the ability to recover its costs on a timely basis, including the ability to recover the costs of purchased water, groundwater assessments, electricity, natural gas, chemicals, water treatment, security at water facilities and preventative maintenance and emergency repairs.  Any delays by the CPUC in granting rate relief to cover increased operating and capital costs at our public utilities or delays in obtaining approval of our requests at ASUS for economic price or equitable adjustments for contracted services from the U.S. government may adversely affect our financial performance.  We may file for interim rates in California in situations where there may be delays in granting final rate relief during a general rate case proceeding.  If the CPUC approves lower rates, the CPUC will require us to refund to customers the difference between the interim rates and the rates approved by the CPUC.  Similarly, if the CPUC approves rates that are higher than the interim rates, the CPUC may authorize us to recover the difference between the interim rates and the final rates.. Regulatory decisions affecting GSWC may also impact prospective revenues and earnings, affect the timing of the recognition of revenues and expenses, may overturn past decisions used in determining our revenues and expenses and could result in impairment charges and customer refunds.  Management continually evaluates the anticipated recovery of regulatory assets, settlement of liabilities and revenues subject to refund and provides for allowances and reserves as deemed necessary.  In the event that our assessment of the probability of recovery or settlement through the ratemaking process is incorrect, we will adjust the associated regulatory asset or liability to reflect the change in our assessment or any regulatory disallowances.  A change in our evaluation of the probability of recovery of regulatory assets or a regulatory disallowance of all or a portion of our costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We are also, in some cases, required to estimate future expenses and, in others, we are required to incur the expense before recovering costs.  As a result, our revenues and earnings may fluctuate depending on the accuracy of our estimates, the timing of our investments or expenses or other factors.  If expenses increase significantly over a short period of time, we may experience delays in recovery of these expenses, the inability to recover carrying costs for these expenses and increased risks of regulatory disallowances or write-offs.. Regulatory agencies may also change their rules and policies which may adversely affect our profitability and cash flows.  Changes in policies of the U.S. government may also adversely affect one or more of our Military Utility Privatization Subsidiaries.  In certain circumstances, the U.S. government may be unwilling or unable to appropriate funds to pay costs mandated by changes in rules and policies of federal or state regulatory agencies.  The U.S. government may disagree with the increases that we request and may delay approval of requests for equitable adjustment or economic price adjustments which could adversely affect our anticipated rates of return.. We may also be subject to fines or penalties if a regulatory agency, including the U.S. government, determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our businesses, unless we successfully appeal such an adverse determination.  Regulatory agencies may also disallow certain costs if audit findings determine that we have failed to comply with our policies and procedures for procurement or other practices.. Our costs involved in maintaining water quality and complying with environmental regulation have increased and are expected to continue to increase. Our capital and operating costs at GSWC can increase substantially as a result of increases in environmental regulation arising from increases in the cost of upgrading and building new water treatment plants, disposing of residuals from our water treatment plants, compliance-monitoring activities and securing alternative supplies when necessary.  GSWC may be able to recover these costs through the ratemaking process.  We may also be able to recover these costs under settlement and contractual arrangements.. 8. Table of Contents. We may be subject to financial losses, penalties and other liabilities if we fail to maintain safe work sites, equipment or facilities. Our safety record is critical to our reputation.  We maintain health and safety standards to protect our employees, customers, vendors and the public.  Although we are vigilant in adhering to such health and safety standards, it is unlikely that we will be able to avoid accidents or other events resulting in damage to property or the public at all times.. Our business sites, including construction and maintenance sites, often put our employees and others in close proximity with large pieces of equipment, moving vehicles, pressurized water, chemicals and other regulated materials.  On many sites we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement safety procedures.  If we fail to implement such procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective or are not followed by our employees or others, our employees and others may be injured or die.  Unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase our operating costs.  Any of the foregoing could result in financial losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our operations may involve the handling and storage of hazardous chemicals which, if improperly handled, stored or disposed of, could subject us to penalties or other liabilities.  We are also subject to regulations dealing with occupational health and safety.  Although we maintain functional employee groups whose primary purpose is to ensure that we implement effective health, safety, and environmental work procedures throughout our organization, including construction sites and maintenance sites, a failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to liability.. Electrical facilities also have an inherent risk of damage to persons or property should such persons or property come into contact with such facilities which could, depending upon the circumstances, subject us to penalties and damages.. We may sustain losses that exceed or are excluded from our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured. We are, from time to time, parties to legal or regulatory proceedings.  These proceedings may pertain to regulatory investigations, employment matters or other disputes.  Management periodically reviews its assessment of the probable outcome of these proceedings, the costs and expenses reasonably expected to be incurred, and the availability and extent of insurance coverage.  On the basis of this review, management establishes reserves for such matters.  We may, however, from time to time be required to pay fines, penalties or damages that exceed our insurance coverage and/or reserves if our estimate of the probable outcome of such proceedings proves to be inaccurate.. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall legal and risk management strategy to minimize our potential liabilities.  However, our insurance policies contain exclusions and other limitations that may not cover our potential liabilities. Generally, our insurance policies cover property, workers' compensation, employer liability, general liability and automobile liability.  Each policy includes deductibles or self-insured retentions and policy limits for covered claims.  As a result, we may sustain losses that exceed or that are excluded from our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured.. We have experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could impact or potentially arise from BVES's ordinary operations.  Uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates.  A loss which is not insured or not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates could materially affect GSWC's financial condition and results of operations.. Additional Risks Associated with our Public Utility Operations. Our operating costs may increase as a result of groundwater contamination. Our operations can be impacted by groundwater contamination in certain service territories.  Historically, we have taken a number of steps to address contamination, including the removal of wells from service, decreasing the amount of groundwater pumped from wells in order to facilitate remediation of plumes of contaminated water, constructing water treatment facilities and securing alternative sources of supply from other areas not affected by the contamination.  In emergency situations, we have supplied our customers with bottled water until the emergency situation has been resolved.. Our ability to recover these types of costs depends upon a variety of factors, including approval of rate increases, the willingness of potentially responsible parties to settle litigation and otherwise address the contamination and the extent and magnitude of the contamination.  We may recover costs from certain third parties that may be responsible, or potentially responsible, for groundwater contamination.  However, we often experience delays in obtaining recovery of these costs and incur additional costs associated with seeking recovery from responsible or potentially responsible parties which may adversely impact our liquidity.  In some events we may be unable to recover all of these costs from third parties due to the inability to. 9. Table of Contents. identify the potentially responsible parties, the lack of financial resources of responsible parties or the high litigation costs associated with obtaining recovery from responsible or potentially responsible parties.. We can give no assurance regarding the adequacy of any such recovery to offset the costs associated with contamination or the cost of recovery of any legal costs.  To date, the CPUC has permitted us to establish memorandum accounts for potential recovery of these types of costs when they arise.. Management believes that rate recovery, proper insurance coverage and reserves are in place to appropriately manage these types of contamination issues.  However, such issues, if ultimately resolved unfavorably to us, could, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The adequacy of our water supplies depends upon weather and a variety of other uncontrollable factors. The adequacy of our water supplies varies from year to year depending upon a variety of factors, including:. • rainfall, basin replenishment, flood control, snow pack levels in California and the West, reservoir levels and availability of reservoir storage;. • availability of Colorado River water and imported water from the State Water Project;. • the amount of usable water stored in reservoirs and groundwater basins;. • the amount of water used by our customers and others;. • water quality;. • legal limitations on production, diversion, storage, conveyance and use; and. • climate change.. More frequent and extended California drought conditions and changes in weather patterns and population growth in California cause increased stress on surface water supplies and groundwater basins.  In addition, low or no allocations of water from the State Water Project and court-ordered pumping restrictions on water obtained from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta decrease or eliminate the amount of water that the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California (\"MWD\") and other state water contractors are able to import from northern California.. We have implemented tiered rates and other practices, as appropriate, in order to encourage water conservation.  We have also implemented programs to assist customers in complying with water usage reductions.  Over the long term, we are acting to secure additional supplies from desalination and increase use of reclaimed water, where appropriate and feasible.  We cannot predict the extent to which these efforts to reduce stress on our water supplies will be successful or sustainable, or the extent to which these efforts will enable us to continue to satisfy all of the water needs of our customers.. Water shortages at GSWC may:. • adversely affect our supply mix, for instance, by causing increased reliance upon more expensive water sources;. • adversely affect our operating costs, for instance, by increasing the cost of producing water from more highly contaminated aquifers or requiring us to transport water over longer distances, truck water to water systems or adopt other emergency measures to enable us to continue to provide water service to our customers;. • result in an increase in our capital expenditures over the long term, for example, by requiring future construction of pipelines to connect to alternative sources of supply, new wells to replace those that are no longer in service or are otherwise inadequate to meet the needs of our customers, and other facilities to conserve or reclaim water;. • adversely affect the volume of water sold as a result of such factors as mandatory or voluntary conservation efforts by customers, changes in customer conservation patterns, recycling of water by customers and imposition of new regulations impacting such things as landscaping and irrigation patterns;. • adversely affect aesthetic water quality if we are unable to flush our water systems as frequently due to water shortages or drought restrictions; and. • result in customer dissatisfaction and harm to our reputation if water service is reduced, interrupted or otherwise adversely affected as a result of drought, water contamination or other causes.. 10. Table of Contents. Our liquidity may be adversely affected by changes in water supply costs. We obtain our water supplies for GSWC from a variety of sources, which vary among our water systems.  Certain systems obtain all of their supply from water that is pumped from aquifers within our service areas; some systems purchase all of the supply from wholesale suppliers; some systems obtain the supply from treating surface water sources; and other systems obtain the supply from a combination of wells, surface water sources and/or wholesale suppliers.  The cost of obtaining these supplies varies, and overall costs can be impacted as use within a system varies from time to time.  As a result, our cost of providing, distributing and treating water for our customers' use can vary significantly.. Furthermore, imported water wholesalers, such as MWD, may not always have an adequate supply of water to sell to us.  Wholesale water suppliers may increase their prices for water delivered to us based on factors that affect their operating costs.  Purchased water rate increases are beyond our control.. GSWC has implemented a modified supply cost balancing account (\"MCBA\") to track and recover costs from supply mix changes and rate changes by wholesale suppliers, as authorized by the CPUC.  However, cash flows from operations can be significantly affected since much of the balance we recognize in the MCBA is collected from or refunded to customers primarily through surcharges or surcredits, respectively, generally over twelve- to eighteen-month periods.. Our liquidity and earnings may be adversely affected by maintenance costs. Some of our infrastructure in California is aging.  We have experienced leaks and mechanical problems in some of these older systems.  In addition, well and pump maintenance expenses are affected by labor and material costs and more stringent environmental regulations.  These costs can increase substantially and unexpectedly.. We include estimated increases in maintenance costs for future years in each general rate case filed by GSWC for possible recovery.. Our liquidity and earnings may be adversely affected by our conservation efforts. Our water utility business is heavily dependent upon revenue generated from rates charged to our customers based on the volume of water used.  The rates we charge for water are regulated by the CPUC and may not be adequately adjusted to reflect changes in demand.  Declining usage also negatively impacts our long-term operating revenues if we are unable to secure rate increases or if growth in the customer base does not occur to the extent necessary to offset per-customer usage decline.. Conservation by all customer classes at GSWC is a top priority.  However, customer conservation will result in lower volumes of water sold.  We may experience a decline in per-customer water usage due to factors such as:. • conservation efforts to reduce costs;. • drought conditions resulting in additional water conservation;. • the use of more efficient household fixtures and appliances by consumers to save water;. • voluntary or mandatory changes in landscaping and irrigation patterns;. • recycling of water by our customers; and. • regulation of groundwater rights.. These types of changes may result in permanent decreases in demand even if our water supplies are sufficient to meet higher levels of demand after a drought ends.  In addition, governmental restrictions on water usage during drought conditions may result in a decreased demand for water, even if our sources of supply are sufficient to serve our customers during such drought conditions.. We implemented a CPUC-approved water-revenue adjustment mechanism (\"WRAM\") at GSWC, which has the effect of reducing the adverse impact of our customers' conservation efforts on revenues.  However, cash flows from operations can be significantly affected since much of the balance we recognize in the WRAM account is collected from or refunded to customers generally over twelve-, eighteen- or thirty-six-month periods.. Our earnings may be affected by weather during different seasons. The demand for water and electricity varies by season.  For instance, there can be a higher level of water consumption during the third quarter of each year when weather in California tends to be hot and dry.  During unusually wet weather, our customers generally use less water.  The CPUC-approved WRAM helps mitigate fluctuations in revenues due to changes in water consumption by our customers in California.. 11. Table of Contents. The demand for electricity in our electric customer service area is greatly affected by winter snow levels.  An increase in winter snow levels reduces the use of snowmaking machines at ski resorts in the Big Bear area and, as a result, reduces our electric revenues.  Likewise, unseasonably warm weather during a skiing season may result in temperatures too high for snowmaking conditions, which also reduces our electric revenues.  GSWC has implemented a CPUC-approved base-revenue-requirement adjustment mechanism for our electric business which helps mitigate fluctuations in the revenues of our electric business due to changes in the amount of electricity used by GSWC's electric customers.. Our liquidity and earnings may be adversely affected by wildfires. It is possible that wildfires in our electric service territory may occur more frequently, be of longer duration or impact larger areas as a result of drought damaged plants and trees, lower humidity or higher winds that might be occurring as result of changed weather patterns.  Our liquidity, earnings and operations may be materially adversely affected by wildfires in our electric service territory.  We may be required to (i) incur greater costs to relocate lines or increase our trimming of trees and other plants near our electric facilities, and (ii) bear the costs of damages to property or injuries to the public if it is determined that our power lines or other electrical equipment was a cause, in whole or in part, of such damages or injuries.. Losses by insurance companies resulting from wildfires in California may cause insurance coverage for wildfire risks to become more expensive or unavailable, under reasonable terms, and our insurance may, in any event, be inadequate to recover all our losses incurred in a wildfire.  We might not be allowed to recover in our rates any increased costs of wildfire insurance, or the costs of any uninsured wildfire losses.. Our liquidity may be adversely affected by increases in electricity and natural gas prices in California. We purchase most of the electric energy sold to customers in our electric customer service area from others under purchased power contracts.  In addition to purchased power contracts, we purchase additional energy from the spot market to meet peak demand and following the expiration of purchased power contracts if there are delays in obtaining CPUC authorization of new purchase power contracts.  We may sell surplus power to the spot market during times of reduced energy demand.  As a result, our cash flows may be affected by increases in spot market prices of electricity purchased and decreases in spot market prices for electricity sold.  However, GSWC has implemented supply-cost balancing accounts, as approved by the CPUC, to mitigate fluctuations in supply costs.  We also operate a natural-gas-fueled 8.4 megawatt generator in our electric service area.. Unexpected generator downtime or a failure to perform by any of the counterparties to our electric and natural gas purchase contracts could further increase our exposure to fluctuating natural gas and electricity prices.. Changes in electricity prices also affect the unrealized gains and losses on our block forward purchased power contracts that qualify as derivative instruments since we adjust the asset or liability on these contracts to reflect the fair market value of the contracts at the end of each month.  The CPUC has authorized us to establish a memorandum account to track the changes in the fair market value of our purchased power contracts.  As a result, unrealized gains and losses on these types of purchased power contracts do not impact earnings.. We may not be able to procure sufficient renewable energy resources to comply with CPUC rules. We are required to procure a portion of our electricity for BVES from renewable energy resources to meet the CPUC's renewable procurement requirements.  We have an agreement with a third party to purchase renewable energy credits which we believe enables us to meet these requirements through 2023.  In the event that the third party fails to perform in accordance with the terms of the agreement, we may not be able to obtain sufficient resources to meet the renewable procurement requirements.  We may be subject to fines and penalties by the CPUC if it determines that we are not in compliance with the renewable resource procurement rules.. Our assets are subject to condemnation. Municipalities and other governmental subdivisions may, in certain circumstances, seek to acquire certain of our assets through eminent domain proceedings.  It is generally our practice to contest these proceedings, which may be costly and may temporarily divert the attention of management from the operation of our business.  If a municipality or other governmental subdivision succeeds in acquiring our assets, there is a risk that we will not receive adequate compensation for the assets taken or be able to recover all charges associated with the condemnation of such assets.  In addition, we would no longer be entitled to any portion of revenue generated from the use of such assets.. 12. Table of Contents. Our costs of obtaining and complying with the terms of franchise agreements are increasing. Cities and counties in which GSWC operates have granted GSWC franchises to construct, maintain and use pipes and appurtenances in public streets and rights of way.  The costs of obtaining, renewing and complying with the terms of these franchise agreements have been increasing as cities and counties attempt to regulate GSWC's operations within the boundaries of the city or unincorporated areas of the counties in which GSWC operates.  Cities and counties have also been attempting to impose new fees on GSWC's operations, including pipeline abandonment fees and road-cut or other types of capital improvement fees.  At the same time, there is increasing opposition from consumer groups to rate increases that may be necessary to compensate GSWC for the increased costs of regulation by local governments.  These trends may adversely affect GSWC's ability to recover its costs of providing water service in rates and to efficiently manage capital expenditures and operating and maintenance expenses within CPUC authorized levels.. The generation, transmission and distribution of electricity are dangerous and involve inherent risks of damage to private property and injury to employees and the general public. Electricity is dangerous for employees and the general public should they come in contact with electrical current or equipment, including through downed power lines, sparking during high wind events or equipment malfunctions.  Injuries and property damage caused by such events may subject GSWC to significant liabilities that may not be covered or fully covered by insurance. Additionally, the CPUC has delegated to its staff the authority to issue citations, which carry a fine of $50,000 per-violation per day, to electric utilities subject to its jurisdiction for violations of safety rules found in statutes, regulations, and the General Orders of the CPUC which could also materially affect GSWC's liquidity and results of operations.. Additional Risks Associated with our Contracted Services Operations. We derive revenues from contract operations primarily from the operation and maintenance of water and/or wastewater systems at military bases and the construction of water and wastewater infrastructure on these bases (including renewal and replacement of these systems).  As a result, these operations are subject to risks that are different from those of our public utility operations.. Our 50-year contracts for servicing military bases create certain risks that are different from our public utility operations. We have entered into contracts to provide water and/or wastewater services at military bases pursuant to 50-year contracts, subject to termination, in whole or in part, for the convenience of the U.S. government.  In addition, the U.S. government may stop work under the terms of one or more of the contracts, delay performance of our obligations under the contracts or modify the contracts at its convenience.. Our contract pricing is based on a number of assumptions, including assumptions about prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials.  We may be unable to recover all costs if any of these assumptions are inaccurate or if all costs incurred in connection with performing the work were not considered.  Our contracts are also subject to annual economic price adjustments or other changes permitted by the terms of the contracts. Prices are also subject to equitable adjustment based upon changes in circumstances, laws or regulations and service-requirement changes to the extent provided in each of the contracts.. We are required to record all costs under these types of contracts as they are incurred.  As a result, we may record losses associated with unanticipated conditions, higher than anticipated infrastructure levels and emergency work at the time such expenses occur.  We recognize additional revenue for such work as, and to the extent that, our economic price adjustments and/or requests for equitable adjustments are approved.  Delays in obtaining approval of economic price adjustments and/or equitable adjustments can negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows.. Certain payments under these contracts are subject to appropriations by Congress.  We may experience delays in receiving payment or delays in price adjustments due to canceled or delayed appropriations specific to our projects or reductions in government spending for the military generally or military-base operations specifically. Appropriations and the timing of payment may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing political priorities, budget constraints, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures.. Management also reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually.  ASUS has $1.1 million of goodwill which may be at risk for potential impairment if requested economic price adjustments and/or equitable adjustments are not granted.. 13. Table of Contents. Risks associated with wastewater systems are different from those of our water distribution operations. The wastewater-collection-system operations of our subsidiaries providing wastewater services on military bases are subject to substantial regulation and involve significant environmental risks.  If collection, treatment or disposal systems fail, overflow or do not operate properly, untreated wastewater or other contaminants could spill onto nearby properties or into nearby streams and rivers, causing damage to persons or property, injury to aquatic life and economic damages.  The cost of addressing such damages may not be recoverable.  This risk is most acute during periods of substantial rainfall or flooding, which are common causes of sewer overflows and system failures.  Liabilities resulting from such damage could adversely and materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In the event that we are deemed liable for any damage caused by overflows, our losses may not be recoverable under our contracts with the U.S. government or covered by insurance policies. We may also find it difficult to secure insurance for this business in the future at acceptable rates.. We may have responsibility for water quality at the military bases we serve. While it is the responsibility of the U.S. government to provide the source of water supply to meet the Military Utility Privatization Subsidiaries' water distribution system requirements under their contracts, the Military Utility Privatization Subsidiaries, as the water system permit holders for most of the bases they serve, are responsible for ensuring the continued compliance of the provided source of supply with all federal, state and local regulations.  We believe, however, that the terms of the contracts between the Military Utility Privatization Subsidiaries and the U.S. government provide the opportunity for us to recover costs incurred in the treatment or remediation of any quality issue that arises from the source of water supply.. Our contracts for the construction of infrastructure improvements on military bases create risks that are different from those of our operations and maintenance activities. We have entered into contract modifications with the U.S. government and agreements with third parties for the construction of new water and/or wastewater infrastructure at the military bases on which we operate.  Most of these contracts are firm fixed-price contracts.  Under firm fixed-price contracts, we will benefit from cost savings, but are generally unable (except for changes in scope or circumstances approved by the U.S. government or third party) to recover any cost overruns to the approved contract price.  Under most circumstances, the U.S. government or third party has approved increased-cost change orders due to changes in scope of work performed.. We generally recognize contract revenues from these types of contracts over time using input methods to measure progress towards satisfying a performance obligation. The measurement of performance over time is based on cost incurred relative to total estimated costs, or the physical completion of the construction projects.  The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on periodic estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability as these construction projects progress.. We establish prices for these types of firm fixed-price contracts and the overall 50-year contracts taken as a whole, based, in part, on cost estimates that are subject to a number of assumptions, including assumptions regarding future economic conditions.  If these estimates prove inaccurate or circumstances change, cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on our contracted business operations and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by disputes with the U.S. government regarding our performance of contracted services on military bases. We are periodically audited or reviewed by the Defense Contract Auditing Agency (\"DCAA\") and/or the Defense Contract Management Agency (\"DCMA\") for compliance with federal acquisition regulations, cost-accounting standards and other laws, regulations and standards that are not applicable to the operations of GSWC.  During the course of these audits/reviews, the DCAA or DCMA may question our incurred project costs or the manner in which we have accounted for such costs and recommend to our U.S. government administrative contracting officer that such costs be disallowed.. If there is a dispute with the U.S. government regarding performance under these contracts or the amounts owed to us, the U.S. government may delay, reject or withhold payment, delay price adjustments or assert its right to offset damages against amounts owed to us.  If we are unable to collect amounts owed to us on a timely basis or the U.S. government asserts its offset rights, profits and cash flows could be adversely affected.. If we fail to comply with the terms of one or more of our U.S. government contracts, other agreements with the U.S. government or U.S. government statutes and regulations, we could also be suspended or barred from future U.S. government contracts for a period of time and be subject to possible damages, fines and penalties as well as damage to our reputation in the water and wastewater industry.. 14. Table of Contents. We depend, to some extent, upon subcontractors to assist us in the performance of contracted services on military bases. We rely, to some extent, on subcontractors to assist us in the operation and maintenance of the water and wastewater systems at military bases.  The failure of any of these subcontractors to perform services for us in accordance with the terms of our contracts with the U.S. government could result in the termination of our contract to provide water and/or wastewater services at the affected base(s), a loss of revenues or increases in costs to correct a subcontractor's performance failures.. We are also required to make a good faith effort to achieve our small business subcontracting plan goals pursuant to U.S. government regulations.  If we fail to use good faith efforts to meet these goals, the U.S. government may assess damages against us at the end of the contract.  The U.S. government has the right to offset claimed damages against any amounts owed to us.. We also rely on third-party manufacturers, as well as third-party subcontractors, to complete our construction projects. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired.  If the amount of costs we incur for these projects exceeds the amount we have estimated in our bid, we could experience reduced profits or losses in the performance of these contracts.  In addition, if a subcontractor or manufacturer is unable to deliver its services, equipment or materials according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may be required to purchase the services, equipment or materials from another source at a higher price.  This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services, equipment or materials were needed.. If these subcontractors fail to perform services to be provided to us or fail to provide us with the proper equipment or materials, we may be penalized for their failure to perform; however, our contracts with these subcontractors include certain protective provisions, which may include the assessment of liquidated damages.  We also mitigate these risks by requiring our subcontractors, as appropriate, to obtain performance bonds and to compensate us for any penalties we may be required to pay as a result of their failure to perform.. Our earnings may be affected, to some extent, by weather during different seasons. Seasonal weather conditions, such as hurricanes, heavy rainfall or significant winter storms, occasionally cause temporary office closures and/or result in temporary halts to construction activity at military bases.  To the extent that our construction activities are impeded by these events, we will experience a delay in recognizing revenues from these construction projects.. We continue to incur costs associated with the expansion of our contract activities. We continue to incur additional costs in connection with the expansion of our contract operations associated with the preparation of bids for new contract operations on prospective and existing military bases.  Our ability to recover these costs and to earn a profit on our contract operations will depend upon the extent to which we are successful in obtaining new contracts and recovering these costs and other costs from new contract revenues.. We face competition for new military privatization contracts. An important part of our growth strategy is the expansion of our contracted services business through new contract awards to serve additional military bases for the U.S. government.  ASUS competes with other regulated utilities, municipalities, and other entities for these contracts.. Other Risks. The accuracy of our judgments and estimates about financial and accounting matters will impact our operating results and financial condition. The quality and accuracy of estimates and judgments used have an impact on our operating results and financial condition.  If our estimates are not accurate, we will be required to make an adjustment in a future period.  We make certain estimates and judgments in preparing our financial statements regarding, among others:. •timing of recovering WRAM and MCBA regulatory assets;. •amounts to set aside for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory obsolescence and uninsured losses;. • our legal exposure and the appropriate accrual for claims, including general liability and workers' compensation claims;. •future costs and assumptions for pensions and other post-retirement benefits;. •regulatory recovery of deferred items; and. •possible tax uncertainties.. 15. Table of Contents. Our business requires significant capital expenditures. The utility business is capital intensive.  We spend significant sums of money for additions to, or replacement of, our property, plant and equipment at our water and electric utilities.  We obtain funds for these capital projects from operations, contributions by developers and others and advances from developers (which are repaid over a period of time at no interest). We also periodically borrow money or issue equity for these purposes.  In addition, we have a syndicated bank credit facility that is partially used for these purposes.  We cannot provide assurance that these sources will continue to be adequate or that the cost of funds will remain at levels permitting us to earn a reasonable rate of return.. Our Military Utility Privatization Subsidiaries providing water and wastewater services on military bases also expect to incur significant capital expenditures.  To the extent that the U.S. government does not reimburse us for these expenditures as the work is performed or completed, the U.S. government will repay us over time.. We may be adversely impacted by economic conditions. Access to external financing on reasonable terms depends, in part, on conditions in the debt and equity markets.  When business and market conditions deteriorate, we may no longer have access to the capital markets on reasonable terms.  Our ability to obtain funds is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets by issuing debt or equity to third parties or obtaining funds from our revolving credit facility.  In the event of financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, consolidation of the financial services industry, significant financial service institution failures or our inability to renew or replace our existing revolving credit facility on favorable terms, it may become necessary for us to seek funds from other sources on less favorable terms.. Market conditions and demographic changes may adversely impact the value of our benefit plan assets and liabilities. Market factors can affect assumptions we use in determining funding requirements with respect to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans.  For example, a relatively modest change in our assumptions regarding discount rates can materially affect our calculation of funding requirements.  To the extent that market data compels us to reduce the discount rate used in our assumptions, our benefit obligations could materially increase, which could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows.  Further, changes in demographics, such as increases in life expectancy assumptions may also increase the funding requirements of our obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans.. Market conditions also affect the values of the assets that are held in trusts to satisfy significant future obligations under our pension and other postretirement benefit plans.  These assets are subject to market fluctuations, which may cause investment returns to fall below our projected rates of return.  A decline in the market value of our pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements under these plans if future returns on these assets are insufficient to offset the decline in value.  Future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of the reduced value of plan assets may not be fully recoverable in rates, and our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected.  These risks are mitigated to some extent by the two-way pension balancing accounts authorized by the CPUC, which permits us to track differences between forecasted annual pension expense adopted in water and electric rates and actual pension expenses for future recovery or refund to customers.. Payment of our debt may be accelerated if we fail to comply with restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants in our debt agreements could result in an event of default.  If the default is not cured or waived, we may be required to repay or refinance this debt before it becomes due.  Even if we are able to obtain waivers from our creditors, we may only be able to do so on unfavorable terms.. The price of our Common Shares may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. The trading price of our Common Shares may fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market and a variety of other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our Common Shares include: regulatory developments; general economic conditions and trends; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our results of operations; actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts; actual or anticipated developments in other utilities' businesses or the competitive landscape generally; litigation involving us or our industry; major catastrophic events, or sales of large blocks of our stock.. 16. Table of Contents. AWR is a holding company that depends on cash flow from its subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its Common Shares. As a holding company, our subsidiaries conduct substantially all operations and our only significant assets are investments in our subsidiaries.  This means that we are dependent on distributions of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations and to pay dividends on our Common Shares.. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and generally have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our credit facility.  Our subsidiaries only pay dividends if and when declared by the respective subsidiary board.  Moreover, GSWC is obligated to give first priority to its own capital requirements and to maintain a capital structure consistent with that determined to be reasonable by the CPUC in its most recent decision on capital structure in order that customers not be adversely affected by the holding company structure.  Furthermore, our right to receive cash or other assets in the unlikely event of liquidation or reorganization of any of our subsidiaries is generally subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary.  If we are unable to obtain funds from a subsidiary in a timely manner, we may be unable to meet our financial obligations, make additional investments or pay dividends.. Failure to attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees could adversely affect our business. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, and develop key employees, including those in managerial, operational, financial, business-development and information-technology support positions.  Our regulated business and contracted services operations are complex.  Attracting and retaining high quality staff allows us to minimize the cost of providing quality service.  In order to attract and retain key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package and be able to effectively recruit qualified candidates.  The failure to successfully hire key employees or the loss of a material number of key employees could have a significant impact on the quality of our operations in the short term.  Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We must successfully maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems as we are increasingly dependent on the continuous and reliable operation of these systems. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations.  Such systems require periodic modifications, upgrades and/or replacement, which subject us to inherent costs and risks including potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administrative and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems.  In addition, the difficulties with implementing new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business and operations, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated.. We rely on our computer, information and communications technology systems in connection with the operation of our business, especially with respect to customer service and billing, accounting and the monitoring and operation of our treatment, storage and pumping facilities.  Our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by weather, natural disasters, telecommunications failures or acts of war or terrorism or similar events or disruptions.  Any of these or other events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, or delay or prevent operations and adversely affect our financial results.. Security risks, data protection breaches and cyber-attacks could disrupt our internal operations, and any such disruption could increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. There have been an increasing number of cyber-attacks on companies around the world, which have caused operational failures or compromised sensitive corporate or customer data.  These attacks have occurred over the internet, through malware, viruses or attachments to e-mails or through persons inside the organization or with access to systems inside the organization.  Although we do not believe that our systems are at a materially greater risk of cyber security attacks than other similar organizations, our information technology systems remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from:. • computer viruses;. • malware;. • hacking; and. • denial of service actions.. We have implemented security measures and will continue to devote significant resources to address any security vulnerabilities in an effort to prevent cyber-attacks.  Despite our efforts, we cannot be assured that a cyber-attack will not cause water, wastewater or electric system problems, disrupt service to our customers, compromise important data or systems or. 17. Table of Contents. result in unintended release of customer or employee information.  Moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of sensitive data, our reputation could be materially damaged.  We could also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability.  In addition, pursuant to U.S. government regulations regarding cyber-security of government contractors, we might be subject to fines, penalties or other actions, including debarment, with respect to current contracts or with respect to future contract opportunities.. Our operations are geographically concentrated in California. Although we operate water and wastewater facilities in a number of states, our water and electric operations are concentrated in California, particularly Southern California.  As a result, our financial results are largely subject to political, water supply, labor, utility cost and regulatory risks, economic conditions, natural disasters and other risks affecting California.. We operate in areas subject to natural disasters. We operate in areas that are prone to earthquakes, fires, mudslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, flooding or other natural disasters.  While we maintain insurance policies to help reduce our financial exposure, a significant seismic event in Southern California, where GSWC's operations are concentrated, or other natural disasters in any of the areas that we serve could adversely impact our ability to deliver water and electricity or provide wastewater service and adversely affect our costs of operations.  With respect to GSWC, the CPUC has historically allowed utilities to establish a catastrophic event memorandum account to potentially recover such costs.  With respect to the Military Utility Privatization Subsidiaries, costs associated with response to natural disasters have been recoverable through requests for equitable adjustment.. Our operations may be the target of terrorist activities. Terrorists could seek to disrupt service to our customers by targeting our assets.  We have invested in additional security for facilities throughout our regulated service areas to mitigate the risks of terrorist activities.  We also may be prevented from providing water and/or wastewater services at the military bases we serve in times of military crisis affecting these bases.. The final determination of our income tax liability may be materially different from our income tax provision. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes.  Our calculation of the provision for income taxes is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file.  In addition, our income tax returns are subject to periodic examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into federal law.  The provisions of this major tax reform are generally effective January 1, 2018.  The most significant change impacting Registrant is the reduction of the corporate federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.   Registrant was able to make reasonable estimates in order to remeasure its deferred tax balances and account for the effects of the Tax Act, which have been reflected in the December 31, 2017 financial statements.  Any further technical corrections or other forms of guidance addressing the Tax Act, as well as regulatory or governmental actions, could result in adjustments to Registrant's remeasurement and accounting for the effects of the Tax Act.. In December 2014, the Company also changed its tax method of accounting to permit the expensing of qualifying utility asset improvement costs that were previously being capitalized and depreciated for tax purposes.  As a result of the change, which included a cumulative adjustment for 2013 and prior years, the Company deducted a significant amount of asset costs that consisted primarily of water mains and connections.  Our determination of costs that qualify as a capital asset versus an immediate tax deduction for utility asset improvements is subject to subsequent adjustment arising from review by taxing authorities, and may impact the deductions that have been taken on recently filed income tax returns.  Although we believe our income tax estimates are appropriate, there is no assurance that the final determination of our current taxes payable will not be materially different, either higher or lower, from the amounts reflected in our financial statements.  In the event we are assessed additional income taxes, our financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected."
