[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all the other information included in the Form 10-K, in evaluating our company, our business, and our prospects. The most significant risks that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows include the risk factors described below.. Our performance is influenced by a variety of economic, social, political, legislative, and regulatory factors.. Our performance is influenced by a variety of economic, social, political, legislative, and regulatory factors. General economic conditions and consumer spending patterns can negatively impact our operating results. Economic uncertainty, unfavorable employment levels, declines in consumer confidence, increases in consumer debt levels, increased commodity prices, and other economic factors may affect consumer spending on discretionary items and adversely affect the demand for our products. Economic conditions also affect governmental, political, and budgetary policies. As a result, economic conditions also can have an effect on the sale of our products to law enforcement, government, and military customers.. Political and other factors also can affect our performance. Concerns about presidential, congressional, and state elections and legislature and policy shifts resulting from those elections can affect the demand for our products. In addition, speculation surrounding increased gun control at the federal, state, and local level and heightened fears of terrorism and crime can affect consumer demand for our products. Often, such concerns result in an increase in near-term consumer demand and subsequent softening of demand when such concerns subside. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may negatively impact operating results.. Federal and state legislatures frequently consider legislation relating to the regulation of firearms, including amendment or repeal of existing legislation. Existing laws may also be affected by future judicial rulings and interpretations. These possible changes to existing legislation or the enactment of new legislation may seek to restrict the makeup of a firearm, including limitations on magazine capacity; mandate the use of certain technologies in a firearm; remove existing legal defenses in lawsuits; or ban the sale and, in some cases, the ownership of various types of firearms and accessories. If such restrictive changes to legislation develop, we could find it difficult, expensive, or even impossible to comply with them, impeding new product development and distribution of existing products. Such restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We remain dependent on the sale of our firearm products.. We manufacture a wide array of handguns, modern sporting rifles, hunting rifles, black powder firearms, handcuffs, and firearm-related products and accessories for sale to a wide variety of customers, including gun enthusiasts, collectors, hunters, sportsmen, competitive shooters, individuals desiring home and personal protection, law enforcement and security agencies and officers, and military agencies in the United States and throughout the world. As noted above, sales of firearms are influenced by a variety of economic, social, political, legislative, and regulatory factors, which may result in volatile revenue patterns. During fiscal 2015, in an effort to diversify our revenue, we began an acquisition strategy to grow into the adjacent outdoor products and accessories market. Since that time, we have spent approximately $394.7 million on acquiring companies and brands to further this strategy. However, firearms continue to represent a large proportion of our net sales. In fiscal 2018, firearm product sales represented approximately 68.6% of our consolidated net sales.. Certain of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation.. Our firearm business, as well as the business of all producers and marketers of firearms and firearm parts, is subject to numerous federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations, and protocols, including the rules and regulations of the ATF. If we fail to comply with ATF rules and regulations, the ATF may limit our activities or growth, fine us, or ultimately put us out of business.. 18. The manufacture, sale, and purchase of firearms are subject to extensive federal, state, and local governmental regulation. The primary federal laws are the National Firearms Act of 1934, or NFA, the Gun Control Act of 1968, or GCA, and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976, or AECA, which have been amended from time to time. The NFA severely restricts the private ownership of fully automatic weapons and heavily regulates other firearms defined in that law and accompanying regulations, including firearm suppressors. The GCA places certain restrictions on the interstate sales of firearms, among other things. The export of our products is controlled by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR. ITAR implements the provisions of the AECA as described in the Code of Federal Regulations and is enforced by the U.S. Department of State. In order for us to sell some of our products in accordance with ITAR, including firearms and firearm suppressors to foreign customers, we must obtain export licenses from the U.S. government, primarily the U.S. Department of State. The U.S. Department of State has discretion as to whether to grant a license, and approval depends on the foreign policies and national security interests of the United States. In addition, Congress may take action to block a proposed sale of firearms for export valued at $1 million or higher. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain export licenses, or to complete profitable contracts as a result of political or other reasons that are outside our control. Failure to receive required licenses or authorizations or the termination or suspension of our export privileges could have an adverse effect on our business. Further, because our manufacturing process includes certain toxic, flammable, and explosive chemicals, we are subject to the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards, as administered by the Department of Homeland Security, which requires that we take additional reporting and security measures related to our manufacturing process.. In addition, like many other manufacturers, we are subject to compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the data privacy laws of Massachusetts and other jurisdictions, and many other regulations surrounding employment law, environmental law, taxation, and consumer protection.. In addition to federal requirements, state and local laws and regulations may place additional restrictions or prohibitions on gun ownership and transfer. These laws and regulations vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Some states or other governmental entities have enacted, and others are considering, legislation restricting or prohibiting the ownership, use, or sale of certain categories of firearms, firearm suppressors, ammunition, ammunition feeding devices, or all of these products. Several states require internal or external locking mechanisms for firearms sold in their jurisdictions. Some states mandate, or are considering mandating, certain design features on safety or other grounds. Such legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Existing industry protections may be repealed or affected by judicial rulings. For example, the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act of 2005, or the PLCAA, was enacted by Congress in 2005 in order to protect firearms manufacturers and dealers from liability when their legally manufactured and lawfully sold products are later used in criminal acts.  The PLCAA (or the state law equivalent of the PLCAA) could be repealed or amended, and legislation has been introduced in Congress to repeal the law. The PLCAA (or the state law equivalent of the PLCAA) may also be affected by future judicial rulings and interpretations. If the PLCAA (or the state law equivalent of the PLCAA) were repealed, amended, or reinterpreted, firearms manufacturers could face a significant increase in litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Compliance with all of these laws, regulations, and protocols is costly and time consuming. Although we make substantial efforts to ensure compliance with the many regulations to which we are subject to, inadvertent violation of any of these laws, regulations, and protocols could cause us to incur fines and penalties and may also lead to restrictions on our ability to manufacture and sell our products and services and to import or export the products that we sell. In addition, these laws, regulations, and protocols, as well as their interpretation by regulatory authorities, may change at any time. There can be no assurance that such changes to the laws, regulations, and protocols or to their interpretations will not adversely affect our business.. 19. Actions of social activists could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources, and have an adverse effect on our business.. From time to time, we may be subject to informal private or public inquiries and/or formal proxy proposals by activists urging us to take certain corporate actions, any of which may not be aligned with the best financial or operational interests of our company.  Such activities may adversely affect our business in a number of ways, since responding to such inquiries or proposals could be costly, time consuming, disruptive to our operations, and could meaningfully divert the attention of our resources, including those of our management team and our employees.   For example, such activities could require us to retain the services of various professionals to advise us on such matters, including legal, financial, and communications advisors, which could be costly.  In addition, certain stockholder inquiries and proposals could create perceived uncertainties or concerns as to our future operating environment, legislative environment, strategy direction, or leadership, and such uncertainties or concerns could result in the loss of potential business opportunities; could harm our ability to attract new investors, customers, and employees; could harm or disrupt our business and financial relationships; could result in consumer boycotts of our products; and could cause our stock price to experience periods of decline, volatility, or stagnation.  For example, certain activists could pressure our financial institutions, our customers, our vendors, or other businesses and institutions with whom we maintain relationships to adopt actions that are not in the best interests of our company, inconsistent with the legal operations of our business, or contrary to the beliefs of our core consumers.  Such activities could have a negative impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We are subject to lawsuits and governmental investigations and inquiries.. We are currently involved in several lawsuits, including a lawsuit involving a municipality and several product liability lawsuits.. We are vigorously defending ourselves in the lawsuits to which we are subject. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not have to pay significant damages or amounts in settlement above insurance coverage. An unfavorable outcome or prolonged litigation could harm our business. Litigation of this nature is also expensive and time consuming and may divert the time and attention of our management.. Our products expose us to potential product liability, warranty liability, and personal injury claims, as well as litigation relating to the use or misuse of our products. These include allegations of defects in manufacturing and design, failure to warn of inherent dangers in the product itself or activities associated with the product, and negligence and strict liability. In addition, we could be subject to future litigation arising out of the criminal misuse of our firearms. If successful, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Although we maintain product liability insurance in amounts that we believe are reasonable, we may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future, and product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage available to us. In addition, our reputation may be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, including potential negative publicity about our products. Due to the nature of our products, we anticipate that we will continue to be involved in litigation, including product liability cases and claims in the future.. Defects in our products could reduce demand and result in a decrease in sales or damage to our reputation. Our products can contain latent defects that are not detected until after the product is introduced to the market. In addition, we obtain many of our products and component parts from third-party suppliers and may not be able to detect defects until after they are sold. Defects in our products may result in a loss of sales, recall or corrective action expenses, damage to our reputation, and increased warranty costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We have been and may continue to be subject to governmental investigations and inquiries. Such investigations and inquiries could subject us to various sanctions, including significant civil and criminal penalties, the indictment of our company or various of our officers and employees, our being prevented from bidding on domestic military and government contracts, our disbarment by the U.S. Department of State, private civil litigation arising out of the outcome of the investigations or inquiries, the diversion of time and attention of our management from normal business operations, and a negative impact on the perception of our company by investors, customers, and others.. 20. It is difficult to align our capacity with our demand.. From time to time, we have been capacity constrained and have been unable to satisfy on a timely basis the demand for some of our products. Overall, capacity constraints were a factor in fiscal 2016, despite our achieving significant improvements in our production throughput as a result of enhanced production methods, the purchase of additional equipment, and the expansion of our supply base for capacity relief on targeted constrained processes. In fiscal 2017 and 2018, we were capacity constrained with respect to certain of our popular products. During the last several fiscal years, we also have enhanced our manufacturing productivity by adding capacity, increasing daily production quantities, increasing operational availability of equipment, reducing machinery down time, extending machinery useful life, and increasing manufacturing efficiency. Future significant increases in consumer demand for our products or increased business from law enforcement or military agencies may require us to expand further our manufacturing capacity, particularly through the purchase of additional manufacturing equipment and the addition of manufacturing space. We may not be able to increase our capacity in time to satisfy increases in demand that may occur from time-to-time, and we may not have adequate financial resources to increase capacity to meet demand. Capacity constraints may prevent us from satisfying customer orders and result in a loss of market share to competitors that are not capacity constrained. At other times, such as recently, we may suffer excess capacity and increased overhead costs, particularly if we increase our capacity to meet actual or anticipated demand and that demand decreases or does not materialize. Various actions that we have taken in the past, such as outsourcing a portion of our production and reducing our expenses, enables us to mitigate the effect of reduced product demand, but such actions cannot totally mitigate the effect of reduced product demand.. Our manufacturing facilities are critical to our success.. Our Springfield, Massachusetts facility is critical to our success, as we currently produce the majority of our firearm products at this facility.. The Springfield facility also houses our principal research, development, engineering, design, shipping, sales, marketing, finance, and management functions. Any event that causes a disruption of the operation of this facility for even a relatively short period of time would adversely affect our ability to produce and ship many of our firearm products and to provide service to our firearm customers. We frequently make certain changes in our manufacturing operations to modernize the facility and associated equipment and systems as a result of the age of the facility and the need to introduce certain efficiencies in manufacturing and other processes in order to produce our anticipated volume of products in a more efficient and cost-effective manner. We anticipate that we will continue to incur significant capital and other expenditures with respect to the facility, but we may not be successful in continuing to improve efficiencies.. We also depend on our Houlton, Maine and Deep River, Connecticut facilities. Our Houlton facility is used primarily as a machining facility for our firearms as well as our handcuffs and restraints, and our Deep River facility is used primarily for custom plastic injection molding services, rapid prototyping, and tooling. A disruption in the activities of these facilities could adversely affect our firearm manufacturing operations.. Our proposed logistics facility may not produce the benefits expected.. In October 2017, we entered into a lease agreement with Ryan Boone County, LLC for the design, construction, and lease of an approximately 633,000 square-foot national logistics facility in the Columbia area of Boone County, Missouri. Our logistics facility is expected to be completed and operational in fiscal 2019. We plan ultimately to rely on this logistics facility for substantially all of our product distribution. The construction of the proposed logistics facility may be delayed by a number of factors including, among others, (i) the inability to obtain timely authorization and approvals from government agencies, (ii) potential changes in federal, state, and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent the project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project, (iii) the inability to acquire right-of-way or land rights on a timely basis on terms that are acceptable to us, (iv) achieving targeted headcount and wages to receive the incentives on which we based the decision for the location of the facility, and (v) the inability to attract and retain skilled employees to meet the labor needs of the new facility.  In addition, the diversion of management's time and attention to the correct development of the facility may adversely affect our day-to-day business activities. While we have plans, processes, and testing protocols in place to mitigate the risks associated with the timely completion and successful implementation of our logistics facility, there can be no assurance that such plans will succeed.. 21. The logistics facility will include computer controlled and automated equipment. As a result, the operations of the facility will be complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions, or other system failures. In addition, because substantially all of our products will be distributed from one location, our operations could also be interrupted by labor difficulties, extreme or severe weather conditions, or by floods, fires or other natural disasters near our logistics facility. Our ability to successfully open and operate the logistics facility in fiscal 2019 also depends on numerous factors, including, among others, our ability to manage a complex project, the proper design of the logistics facility, the ability to employ a skilled workforce to operate the logistics facility, the design and operation of computer controlled and automated systems, the design of software systems to operate the logistics facility, and the integration of the logistics facility into our ERP system.  Difficulties or delays in performing any of these critical tasks could delay the timely opening of our logistics facility and negatively impact the efficient operation of our business. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effect that may be caused by significant disruptions in our product distribution, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of our brand image.. Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales, and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies as well as tax savings and incentives will depend on the timely implementation and proper operation of our new logistics facility. The fixed costs associated with owning, operating, and maintaining a large, highly automated logistics facility during a period of economic weakness or declining sales could result in lower operating efficiencies, financial deleverage, and potential impairment in the recorded value of distribution assets. This fixed cost structure may make it difficult for us to maintain our profitability levels if sales volumes decline for an extended period of time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Our efforts to develop new products may be costly and ineffective.. Our efforts to develop new products may not be successful, and any new products that we develop may not result in customer or market acceptance. The development of new products is a lengthy and costly process. Any new products that we develop and introduce to the marketplace may be unsuccessful or achieve success that does not meet our expectations for a variety of reasons, including delays in introduction, unfavorable cost comparisons with alternative products, and unfavorable performance. Significant expenses related to proposed new products that prove to be unsuccessful for any reason could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We rely on outsourcing for a portion of our production, and any interruptions in these arrangements could disrupt our ability to fill our customers' orders.. We utilize contract manufacturers for a portion of our firearm production requirements, particularly during periods of very high customer demand, in order to increase our manufacturing capacity and reduce our capital expenditures for facilities that may not always operate at peak capacity.  Qualifying new contract manufacturers is time consuming and may result in unforeseen disruptions in our manufacturing and operations. The loss of our relationships with our contract manufacturers or their inability to conduct their services for us as anticipated in terms of capacity, cost, quality, and timeliness could adversely affect our ability to fill customer orders in accordance with required delivery, quality, and performance requirements.  If this were to occur, the resulting decline in revenue could harm our business.. We source a significant portion of the outdoor products and accessories that we sell from third-party contract manufacturers, located primarily in Asia. In our Electro-Optics division, we source laser diodes from Asia and most other component parts from North America. Our ability to secure qualified suppliers that meet our quality and other standards, and to receive these products in a timely and efficient manner, represents a challenge, especially with suppliers located and products sourced outside the United States.  Political and economic instability in countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial and managerial instability of suppliers, the failure by suppliers to meet our standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to our suppliers, product quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation, and other factors relating to suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.  The United States' foreign trade policies, tariffs, and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain types of materials from other countries, and other factors relating to foreign trade also are beyond our control.  These and a majority of other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our business.. 22. We also depend on our contract manufacturers to maintain high levels of productivity and satisfactory delivery schedules.  We do not have long-term agreements with many of our contract manufacturers that guarantee production capacity, prices, lead times, or delivery schedules.  Our contract manufacturers serve other customers, a number of which may have greater production requirements than we do.  As a result, our contract manufacturers could determine to prioritize production capacity for other customers or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice.  Lower than expected manufacturing efficiencies could increase our cost and disrupt or delay our supplies.  Any of these problems could result in our inability to deliver our products in a timely manner or adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We often rely on third parties, including independent sales representatives and agents that act on our behalf.. We are often represented by third parties, including independent sales representatives and agents. These representatives and agents sometimes have the ability to enter into agreements on our behalf. The actions of these third parties could adversely affect our business if they enter into low margin contracts or conduct themselves in a manner that damages our reputation in the marketplace. We also face a risk that these third parties could violate domestic or foreign laws, which could put us at risk for prosecution in the United States or internationally.. Poor product quality or performance could adversely affect our operating results and reputation.. Poor product quality or performance could adversely affect our operating results and reputation. We generally provide a limited one year warranty and a lifetime service policy to the original purchaser of our new firearm products and a limited one year warranty to the original purchaser of our new outdoor products and accessories. We offer a one year or limited lifetime warranty program to the original purchaser of our outdoor products and accessories, depending on the product purchased. In our Electro-Optics division, we offer a warranty that our products will be free from defects in materials and workmanship for a period of three years from the original retail purchase and commit to repair or replace with an item of equivalent value, at our option, any product or part which is found to be defective under normal use and service, without charge, during the warranty period.. While we believe we have a strong track record of developing, manufacturing, and selling high-quality products, from time to time, we have experienced manufacturing and design issues with respect to some of our firearms and have initiated product recalls and safety alerts in the past. Based on the volume of products we have shipped into the market, any future recall, safety alerts, or product liability claims could harm our reputation, cause us to lose business, and cause us to incur significant warranty, support, and repair costs.. We may incur higher medical benefit costs in the future.. We are self-insured for our employee medical plan. While our medical costs in recent years have generally increased at the same level as the regional average, our aging workforce and other employee demographics could result in an increase in our medical costs beyond what we have experienced or expect. We have stop-loss coverage in place for catastrophic events, but the aggregate impact of a high number of claims up to our stop-loss limit may have an adverse impact on our profitability.. We cannot assess the effect that legislation will have on our healthcare costs and structure or our ability to provide healthcare benefits to our employees.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or ACA, became effective in calendar 2015 with other provisions to become effective over succeeding years.. The Trump Administration and the Republican Congress are pursuing legislative and regulatory efforts to repeal and replace ACA.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which was adopted in December 2017, effectively eliminated certain provisions of the ACA, including the individual mandate starting in 2019 requiring consumers to buy insurance or pay a penalty subject to a limited number of exceptions.  It is generally anticipated that the Trump Administration and the Republican Congress will continue their efforts to repeal and replace the ACA, possibly in its entirety, and that many states, including states in which we conduct operations, will adopt their own health care legislation. Changes to the healthcare requirements in the future may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. 23. Liability insurance is expensive and may be difficult to obtain.. Liability insurance coverage is expensive and from time to time may be difficult or impossible to obtain. Our insurance policies are subject to periodic review by our insurers and may not be renewed at all or on similar or favorable terms. If we or other firearms manufacturers sustain significant losses or make significant insurance claims, our ability to obtain future insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates could be materially adversely affected. Our liability insurance costs were $5.2 million in fiscal 2018 and $4.3 million in fiscal 2017. An inability to obtain liability insurance, significant increases in the cost of insurance we obtain, or losses in excess of our liability insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us.. Shortages of, and price increases for, components, parts, raw materials, and other supplies may delay or reduce our sales and increase our costs.. Although we manufacture most of the components for our firearms, we purchase certain components and parts from third parties, including bolt carriers, rifle receivers, magazines, slides, small parts, barrels, and rifle stocks. We rely on third-party suppliers and manufacturers for substantially all of our outdoor products and accessories' finished products and compnents, and we have limited control over these suppliers and manufacturers. We also purchase ammunition for product testing.. Most of our major suppliers for our firearm products are U.S.-based and provide materials, components, and parts, such as raw steel, polymer components, and metal-injected-molded components. The costs of these materials, components, and parts are at competitive rates. We have become increasingly dependent on a small number of key vendors that supply components and parts for our firearms as a result of our decision to enhance our manufacturing flexibility by using third parties that can supplement our internal capacity to better react to changes in market conditions. Most of our major suppliers for our outdoor products and accessories components and products are based in Asia. Our major suppliers for electro-optics components are based in Asia and North America. We also use numerous raw materials that we purchase from third-party suppliers in producing and testing our products, including steel, wood, lead, brass, and plastics. Uncertainties related to governmental fiscal policies, including increased duties, tariffs, or other trade restrictions, could increase the prices of finished products, components, and raw materials we purchase from third-party suppliers.. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components, parts, raw materials, and other supplies from independent sources necessary for the production of our products could result in reduced or delayed sales or lost orders. Any delay in or loss of sales could adversely impact our operating results. Many of the components, parts, raw materials, and other supplies used in the production of our products are available only from a limited number of suppliers. In most cases, we do not have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. As a result, we could be subject to increased costs, supply interruptions, and difficulties in obtaining materials and finished products. Our suppliers also may encounter difficulties or increased costs in obtaining the materials necessary to produce the components and parts that we use in our products. The time lost in seeking and acquiring new sources or the inability to locate alternative sources of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all, could negatively impact our net sales and profitability. Shortages of ammunition also can adversely affect the demand for our products.. We have occasionally received, and may receive in the future, product deliveries from suppliers that fail to conform to our quality control standards. In such circumstances, our inability to sell those products could have a negative effect on our net sales and increase our administrative and shipping costs if we are unable to obtain replacement products in a timely manner.. 24. Damage or disruption to manufacturing and distribution capabilities of, or the disruption of deliveries from, our suppliers because of severe or catastrophic events, including weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, or labor disruptions, including at ports or at our suppliers, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Although we have insurance to cover potential loss from most of our suppliers for these events, we could experience losses in excess of our insured limits. In addition, failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on us, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.. Interruptions in the proper functioning of our information systems or other issues with our ERP systems could cause disruption to our operations.. We rely extensively on our information systems to manage our business, data, communications, supply chain, ordering, pricing, billing, inventory replenishment, accounting functions, and other processes. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from various sources, including power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber security breaches, vandalism, severe weather conditions, catastrophic events, terrorism, and human error, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. If our systems are damaged, fail to function properly, or otherwise become compromised or unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and we may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Our information technology systems require periodic modifications, upgrades, and replacement that subject us to costs and risks, including potential disruption to our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel or outside firms to implement and operate existing or new systems, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new or modified systems or of integrating new or modified systems into our current systems. In addition, challenges implementing new or modified technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business operations if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated.. All businesses in our Firearm division and our largest business in our Outdoor Products & Accessories division operate under a fully integrated ERP system, SAP. We anticipate that we will implement SAP at our new national logistics facility in fiscal 2019. This implementation could result in a major disruption to our business, and any disruption could have a negative effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, implementing SAP has required and will continue to require significant resources and refinement to fully realize the expected benefits of the system.. Breaches of our information systems could adversely affect our reputation, disrupt our operations, and result in increased costs and loss of revenue.. There have been an increasing number of cyber security incidents affecting companies around the world, which have caused operational failures or compromised sensitive or confidential corporate data.  Although we do not believe our systems are at a greater risk of cyber security incidents than other similar organizations, such cyber security incidents may result in the loss or compromise of customer, financial, or operational data; loss of assets; disruption of billing, collections, or normal operating activities; disruption of electronic monitoring and control of operational systems; and delays in financial reporting and other management functions. In addition, acquisitions of smaller, closely held companies could increase our risk as they often lack the systems, policies, procedures, and controls of larger companies. Possible impacts associated with cyber security incidents (which generally are increasing in both frequency and sophistication) may include, among others, remediation costs related to lost, stolen, or compromised data; repairs to data processing systems; increased cyber security protection costs; reputational damage; lawsuits seeking damages; regulatory actions; and adverse effects on our compliance with applicable privacy and other laws and regulations. Such occurrences could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. 25. We face intense competition that could result in our losing or failing to gain market share and suffering reduced sales.. We operate in intensely competitive consumer markets that are characterized by competition from major domestic and international companies. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales, reduced margins, and lower market share. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources and, in certain cases, may have lower cost structures than we possess that may afford them competitive advantages. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of products, negotiate lower prices on raw materials and components, deliver competitive products at lower prices, and introduce new products and respond to customer requirements more effectively and quickly than we can.. Competition in the consumer products industry is primarily based on innovation, quality, reliability, durability, price, performance, consumer brand awareness, and customer service and support. Our inability to compete in one or more of these areas could have a negative impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Acquisitions involve significant risks, and any acquisitions that we undertake in the future could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and harm our operating results.. We have a strategy to expand our operations through acquisitions in order to enhance existing products and offer new products, enter new markets and businesses, strengthen and avoid interruption from our supply chain, and enhance our position in current markets and businesses. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties. We cannot accurately predict the timing, size, and success of any future acquisitions. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisitions of candidates that we identify. Increased competition for acquisition candidates or increased asking prices by acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for acquisitions to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria. Acquisitions also may become more difficult in the future as we or others acquire the most attractive candidates. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Our ability to complete acquisitions that we desire to make in the future will depend upon various factors, including the following:. •  the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at attractive purchase prices;. •  the ability to compete effectively for available acquisition opportunities;. •  the availability of cash resources, borrowing capacity, or stock at favorable price levels to provide required purchase prices in acquisitions;. •  the ability of management to devote sufficient attention to acquisition efforts; and. •  the ability to obtain any requisite governmental or other approvals.. We plan to pursue acquisitions of businesses that are not involved in the manufacture of firearms, such as businesses involved in shooting and hunting sports, companies involved in what we consider the rugged outdoor market (which may include camping, hiking, fishing, and a variety of other outdoor recreational and leisure activities), companies that perform manufacturing services for us or supply us with components or materials, and other businesses that we regard as complementary to our business. We may have little or no experience with certain acquired businesses, which could involve significantly different supply chains, production techniques, customers, and competitive factors than our current business. This lack of experience would require us to rely to a great extent on the management teams of these acquired businesses. These acquisitions also could require us to make significant investments in systems, equipment, facilities, and personnel in anticipation of growth. These costs could be essential to implement our growth strategy in supporting our expanded activities and resulting corporate structure changes. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as we expand into these new markets within the time frames we expect, if at all. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as we expand into these new markets, or do not achieve them within the time frames we expect, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. 26. As a part of any potential acquisition, we may engage in discussions with various acquisition candidates. In connection with these discussions, we and each potential acquisition candidate may exchange confidential operational and financial information, conduct due diligence inquiries, and consider the structure, terms, and conditions of the potential acquisition. In certain cases, the prospective acquisition candidate agrees not to discuss a potential acquisition with any other party for a specific period of time and agrees to take other actions designed to enhance the possibility of the acquisition, such as preparing audited financial information. Potential acquisition discussions frequently take place over a long period of time and involve difficult business integration and other issues. As a result of these and other factors, a number of potential acquisitions that from time-to-time appear likely to occur do not result in binding legal agreements and are not consummated, but may result in increased legal, consulting, and other costs.. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with future acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our profitability. Any future acquisitions may not meet our strategic objectives or perform as anticipated. In addition, the size, timing, and success of any future acquisitions may cause substantial fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. For example, our acquisition of Thompson/Center Arms in January 2007 and SWSS, LLC in July 2009 resulted in substantial write-offs of goodwill and long-lived intangible assets. Consequently, our operating results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year. These interim fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. If we finance any future acquisitions in whole or in part through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, existing stockholders will experience dilution in the voting power of their common stock and earnings per share could be negatively impacted. The extent to which we will be able or willing to use our common stock for acquisitions will depend on the market price of our common stock from time-to-time and the willingness of potential acquisition candidates to accept our common stock as full or partial consideration for the sale of their businesses. Our inability to use our common stock as consideration, to generate cash from operations, or to obtain additional funding through debt or equity financings in order to pursue an acquisition could limit our growth.. Our recent acquisitions and any acquisitions that we undertake in the future could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, and harm our operations.. We have a history of acquiring businesses, having spent approximately $394.7 million on acquisitions in the last four fiscal years. In order to pursue successful acquisitions, we may need to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, including centralizing certain functions to achieve cost savings and pursuing programs and processes that leverage our sales and growth opportunities. In fiscal 2017, we acquired Crimson Trace Corporation and the assets of Taylor Brands, LLC and Ultimate Survival Technologies, Inc. In fiscal 2018, we acquired the assets of Gemini Technologies, Incorporated and Fish Tales, LLC. We are in the process of completing the integration of these businesses. The integration of the management, operations, and facilities of acquired businesses with our own could involve difficulties, which could adversely affect our growth rate and operating results.. We may be unable to effectively complete an integration of the management, operations, facilities, and accounting and information systems of acquired businesses with our own; to implement effective controls to mitigate legal and business risks with which we have no prior experience; to manage efficiently the combined operations of the acquired businesses with our operations; to achieve our operating, growth, and performance goals for acquired businesses; to achieve additional sales as a result of our expanded operations; or to achieve operating efficiencies or otherwise realize cost savings as a result of anticipated acquisition synergies. The integration of acquired businesses involves numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following:. •  the potential disruption of our core businesses;. •  risks associated with entering markets and businesses in which we have little or no prior experience;. •  diversion of management's attention from our core businesses;. •  adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. 27. •  risks associated with increased regulatory or compliance matters;. •  failure to retain key customers, suppliers, or personnel of acquired businesses;. •  the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures;. •  greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to the integration of the acquired business with our business;. •  potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired company;. •  risks associated with weak internal controls over information technology systems and associated cyber security risks;. •  meeting the challenges inherent in effectively managing an increased number of employees in diverse locations;. •  failure of acquired businesses to achieve expected results;. •  the risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets in future acquisitions; and. •  the challenge of creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems.. Potential strategic alliances may not achieve their objectives, which could impede our growth.. We have entered into strategic alliances in the past and anticipate that we will enter into new strategic alliances in the future. We continue to explore strategic alliances designed to expand our product offerings, enter new markets, and improve our distribution channels. Our existing strategic alliances and any new strategic alliances may not achieve their intended objectives, and parties to our strategic alliances may not perform as contemplated. The failure of these alliances may impede our ability to introduce new products and enter new markets.. If our goodwill, intangible assets, or long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. We review our goodwill, intangible assets, and long-lived assets (collectively, \"tested assets\") for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. After such review, we may be required to record a significant charge to our financial statements during the period in which such impairment of our tested assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. As of April 30, 2018, our Firearms, Outdoor Products & Accessories, and Electro-Optics operating units had tested assets of $18.5 million, $119.8 million, and $53.0 million, respectively.  For further discussion of the valuation of tested assets, see Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements.  Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our tested assets may be reduced or otherwise not be recoverable, include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, changes in regulations, reduced future cash flow estimates, slower growth rates, changes in the competitive environment for our products, and the success of new products.. Our growth strategy may require significant additional funds, the amount of which will depend upon our working capital and general corporate needs.. Any substantial borrowings made to finance operations or future acquisitions could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our operating results, a downturn in economic conditions, or increases in interest rates on borrowings. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to meet our debt service requirements, we could be required to sell additional equity securities, refinance our obligations, or dispose of assets in order to meet our debt service requirements. Adequate financing may not be available if and when we need it or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. The failure to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on us.. 28. From time to time, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide funds for the expansion of our business. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any such financing requirements at this time. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired, and our operating results may suffer. Debt financing increases expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results. Equity financing could result in additional dilution to existing stockholders.. As of April 30, 2018, we had $187.7 million of long-term debt outstanding, of which $6.3 million is payable in the next 12 months. The degree to which we are leveraged could adversely affect our ability to obtain further financing for working capital, acquisitions, or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to the financial condition, business environment, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.. The failure to manage our growth could adversely affect our operations.. To continue to expand our business and enhance our competitive position, we must make significant investments in systems, equipment, facilities, and personnel. In addition, we may commit significant funds to enhance our sales, marketing, information technology, and research and development efforts in order to expand our business. As a result of the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses, our failure to increase sufficiently our net sales to offset these increased costs could adversely affect our operating results.. The failure to manage our growth effectively could adversely affect our operations. We have substantially increased the number of our manufacturing and design programs and plan to further expand the number and diversity of our programs in the future. Managing our planned growth effectively will require us to. •  enhance our operational, financial, and management systems;. •  enhance our facilities and purchase additional equipment, which will include ongoing modernization and expansion of our Springfield, Massachusetts, Deep River, Connecticut, and Houlton, Maine facilities;. •  achieve the anticipated benefits of our new national logistics facility; and. •  successfully hire, train, and motivate additional employees, including additional personnel for our technological, sales, and marketing efforts.. The expansion of our products and customer base may result in increases in our overhead and selling expenses. We also may be required to increase staffing and other expenses as well as our expenditures on capital equipment and leasehold improvements in order to meet the demand for our products. Any increase in expenditures in anticipation of future sales that do not materialize would adversely affect our profitability.. Our business is highly dependent upon our brand recognition and reputation, and the failure to maintain or enhance our brand recognition or reputation would likely have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our brand recognition and reputation are critical aspects of our business. We believe that maintaining and further enhancing all of our brands is critical to retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. We also believe that the importance of our brand recognition and reputation will continue to increase as competition in our markets continues to develop.. 29. We anticipate that our advertising, marketing, and promotional efforts will increase in the foreseeable future as we continue to seek to enhance our brands and consumer demand for our products. Historically, we have relied on print and electronic media advertising to increase consumer awareness of our brands to increase purchasing intent and conversation. We anticipate that we will increasingly rely on other forms of media advertising, including social media and digital marketing. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our advertising, promotion, public relations, and marketing programs. These brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue and the efficacy of these activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to do the following:. •  determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for advertising, marketing, and promotional expenditures;. •  select the right markets, media, and specific media vehicles in which to advertise;. •  identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market, media, and specific media vehicle; and. •  effectively manage marketing costs, including creative and media expenses, in order to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs.. Increases in the pricing of one or more of our marketing and advertising channels could increase our marketing and advertising expenses or cause us to choose less expensive but possibly less effective marketing and advertising channels. If we implement new marketing and advertising strategies, we may incur significantly higher costs than our current channels, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. Implementing new marketing and advertising strategies also could increase the risk of devoting significant capital and other resources to endeavors that do not prove to be cost effective. We also may incur marketing and advertising expenses significantly in advance of the time we anticipate recognizing revenue associated with such expenses, and our marketing and advertising expenditures may not generate sufficient levels of brand awareness and conversation or result in increased revenue. Even if our marketing and advertising expenses result in increased revenue, the increase might not offset our related expenditures. If we are unable to maintain our marketing and advertising channels on cost-effective terms or replace or supplement existing marketing and advertising channels with similarly or more effective channels, our marketing and advertising expenses could increase substantially, our customer base could be adversely affected, and our business, operating results, financial condition, and reputation could suffer.. An inability to expand our e-commerce business could reduce our future growth.. Consumers are increasingly shopping online via e-commerce retailers and we face intense pressure to make our products available via e-commerce services. Although firearms currently cannot be delivered direct-to-consumer, firearms are increasingly sold on e-commerce websites and delivered to licensed firearm retailers near to the consumer, who then perform the requisite legal procedures and checks for a small fee. Our success in participating in e-commerce, especially in non-firearm transactions, will depend on our ability to effectively use our marketing resources to communicate with existing and potential customers in order to increase our e-commerce sales. To increase our e-commerce sales, we may have to be more promotional to compete, which could impact our gross margin and increase our marketing expenses. We do not currently have a fully functional direct-to-consumer e-commerce platform and are reliant on third party e-commerce websites to sell our products, which could lead to our e-commerce customers being able to have control over the pricing of our products. This in turn could lead to adverse relationship consequences with our customers that operate brick and mortar locations as they may perceive themselves to be at a disadvantage based on the e-commerce pricing to end consumers. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully expand our e-commerce business and respond to shifting consumer traffic patterns and direct-to-consumer buying trends.. 30. In addition, e-commerce and direct-to-consumer operations are subject to numerous risks, including implementing and maintaining appropriate technology to support business strategies, reliance on third-party computer hardware/software and service providers, data breaches, violations of state, federal, or international laws, including those relating to online privacy, credit card fraud, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, and disruption of Internet service. Our inability to adequately respond to these risks and uncertainties or to successfully maintain and expand our direct-to-consumer business may have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. We may have difficulty collecting amounts owed to us.. Certain of our customers have experienced, and may in the future experience, credit-related issues. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of customers, but these evaluations may not be completely effective. We grant payment terms to most customers ranging from 30 to 90 days and do not generally require collateral. However, in some instances we provide longer payment terms, particularly as it relates to our hunting products. Should more customers than we anticipate experience liquidity issues, or if payment is not received on a timely basis, we may have difficulty collecting amounts owed to us by such customers and our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2018, one of our customers accounted for 11.9% of our net sales and none of our customers accounted for 10% or more of our accounts receivable. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2017, none of our customers exceeded 10% of our net sales and one of our customers accounted for approximately 17.5% of our accounts receivable. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2016, we did not have any customers that exceeded 10% of net sales or accounts receivable.. Through our growth strategy, our sales could become increasingly dependent on purchases by several large retail customers. Consolidation in the retail industry could also adversely affect our business.  If our sales were to become increasingly dependent on business with several large retailers, we could experience more concentrated credit-related risks and be adversely affected by the loss or a significant decline in sales to one or more of these customers.  In addition, our dependence on a smaller group of retailers could result in their increased bargaining position and pressures on the prices we charge.. Our inability to protect our intellectual property or obtain the right to use intellectual property from third parties could impair our competitive advantage, reduce our sales, and increase our costs.. Our success and ability to compete depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, trade dress, customer records, monitoring, brand protection services, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property, but these measures may provide only limited protection. Our failure to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights or obtain the right to use necessary intellectual property from third parties could reduce our sales and increase our costs. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States.. Patents may not be issued for the patent applications that we have filed or may file in the future. Our issued patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and claims of our patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength, or issued in the proper geographic regions, to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. We have registered certain of our trademarks and trade dress in the United States and other countries. We have also recorded certain of our registered trademarks with customs officials in the United States and other countries. We may be unable to enforce existing or obtain new registrations of principle or other trademarks in key markets. Failure to obtain or enforce such registrations could compromise our ability to protect fully our trademarks and brands and could increase the risk of challenges from third parties to our use of our trademarks and brands.. 31. In the past, we did not consistently require our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, employment agreements, or proprietary information and invention agreements; however, such agreements are now required. Therefore, our former employees and consultants may try to claim some ownership interest in our intellectual property and may use our intellectual property competitively and without appropriate limitations. In addition, our acquired businesses may not have consistently required their employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, employment agreements, or proprietary information and invention agreements. Claims by such individuals may affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We may incur substantial expenses and devote significant resources in prosecuting others for their unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights.. We may become involved in litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other companies, including our competitors, may develop intellectual property that is similar or superior to our intellectual property, duplicate our intellectual property, or design around our patents and may have or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our products. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries in which we sell products or from which competing products may be sold. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use aspects of our intellectual property and products that we regard as proprietary. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may prove to be inadequate and competitors may be able to independently develop similar intellectual property. If our intellectual property protection is insufficient to protect our intellectual property rights, we could face increased competition in the markets for our products.. Should any of our competitors file patent applications or obtain patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may choose to participate in an interference proceeding to determine the right to a patent for these inventions because our business would be harmed if we fail to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Even if the outcome is favorable, this proceeding could result in substantial cost to us and disrupt our business.. In the future, we also may need to file lawsuits to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We face risks associated with international activities, including related to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation.. Political and economic conditions abroad may result in a reduction of or inhibition of our growth in our sales in numerous foreign countries and our purchase of certain accessories and components from certain countries in Asia and Europe, including China, Taiwan, and Italy. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export or import compliance laws, or other trade policies, could reduce our ability to sell our products in foreign markets, the ability of foreign customers to purchase our products, and our ability to import components, parts, and products from foreign suppliers. Our efforts to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or other applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations may limit our international business activities, necessitate the implementation of certain processes and compliance programs, and subject us to enforcement actions or penalties for noncompliance. Both the U.S. and foreign governments have increased their oversight and enforcement activities in this area in recent years, and we expect applicable agencies to continue to increase such activities in the future.. Our foreign sales and purchases of certain accessories and components also create a number of logistical and communication challenges. These activities also expose us to various economic, political, and other risks, including the following:. •  compliance with U.S. and local laws and regulatory requirements, including adverse changes in those laws and requirements;. •  transportation delays or interruptions and other effects of less developed infrastructures;. •  foreign exchange rate fluctuations;. 32. •  limitations on imports and exports;. •  imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds;. •  the possibility of appropriation of our assets without just compensation;. •  taxes, tariffs, and duties;. •  the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; and. •  political or economic instability in countries in which we conduct business, including possible terrorist acts.. We currently maintain operations in Belgium and the People's Republic of China and have plans to expand our international operations.  As a result, we are exposed to risks in the countries in which we operate or will operate in the future, including political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, and political unrest, which could negatively affect our international operations.. Environmental laws and regulations may impact our business.. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws that regulate or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, CERCLA, and the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by RCRA. CERCLA, RCRA, and related state laws subject us to the potential obligation to remove or mitigate the environmental effects of the disposal or release of certain pollutants at our manufacturing facilities and at third-party or formerly owned sites at which contaminants generated by us may be located. This requires us to make expenditures of both a capital and expense nature.. In our efforts to satisfy our environmental, health, and safety responsibilities and to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we maintain policies relating to the environmental, health, and safety standards for our operations and conduct programs to monitor compliance with various environmental regulations. However, in the normal course of our manufacturing operations, we may become subject to governmental proceedings and orders pertaining to waste disposal, air emissions, and water discharges into the environment. We believe, based on the information available to us, that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental regulations.. From a remediation perspective, we may not have identified all existing contamination on our properties, and we cannot predict whether our operations will cause contamination in the future. As a result, we could incur additional costs to clean up contamination that exceed the amount of our reserves. We will periodically review the probable and reasonably estimable environmental costs in order to update the environmental reserves. Furthermore, it is not possible to predict with certainty the impact on us of future environmental, health, and safety compliance requirements or of the cost of resolution of future regulatory proceedings and claims, in part because the scope of the remedies that may be required is not certain, liability under federal environmental laws is joint and several in nature, and environmental health and safety laws and regulations are subject to modification and changes in interpretation. Additional or changing environmental health and safety regulation may become burdensome in the future, and any such development could have an adverse effect on us.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy significant debt service obligations.. As of April 30, 2018, we had consolidated indebtedness of $187.7 million, of which $6.3 million is payable in the next 12 months.  On June 15, 2015, we entered into a new unsecured credit facility, or the Credit Agreement, with TD Bank, N.A. and other lenders, or the Lenders, which included a $175.0 million revolving line of credit, or the Revolving Line, and a $105.0 million term loan, or the Term Loan, of which $87.7 million remained outstanding as of April 30, 2018. The Revolving Line provides availability until June 15, 2020 for general corporate purposes, with borrowings to bear interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR or prime plus an applicable margin based on our consolidated leverage ratio, at our election. On October 27, 2016, we entered into a second amendment to our existing unsecured credit agreement, or the Second Amendment, which, among other things increased the Revolving Line to $350.0 million, increased the option to expand the credit commitment to $150.0 million, and extended the. 33. maturity of the Revolving Line from June 15, 2020 to October 27, 2021. Other than the changes described in the Second Amendment, we otherwise remain subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, as described below. As of April 30, 2018, we had $25.0 million of borrowings outstanding on the Revolving Line, which bore interest at 4.15%, at the LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin. We were required to obtain fixed interest rate protection on the Term Loan covering not less than 75% of the aggregate outstanding principal balance of the Term Loan. Accordingly, on June 18, 2015, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement, which expires on June 15, 2020, that covered 100% of the $105.0 million of floating rate debt. On July 6, 2015, we executed an interest rate swap pursuant to such agreement. This swap, when combined with the applicable margin based on our consolidated leverage ratio, effectively fixed our interest rate on the Term Loan at 4.14%, which is subject to change based on our consolidated leverage ratio.. In February 2018, we issued $75.0 million of 5.000% Senior Notes due 2020, or the 2020 Senior Notes, and used the proceeds of the notes offering to redeem our then outstanding $75.0 million of 5.000% Senior Notes due 2018, or the 2018 Senior Notes, in March 2018. The Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the 2020 Senior Notes, or the 2020 Senior Notes Indenture, each contain certain affirmative and negative financial and other restrictive covenants. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future, including borrowings under our credit facility. Our indebtedness, after taking into account additional borrowings under our credit facility, and the fact that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be used to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, could have important consequences, including the following:. •  increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt;. •  limiting, by the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, our ability to borrow additional funds; and. •  having a material adverse effect on our business if we fail to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements, because such failure could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in all or a substantial amount of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable.. Our ability to incur significant future indebtedness, whether to finance potential acquisitions or for general corporate purposes, will depend on our ability to generate cash. To a certain extent, our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us under our credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. If we cannot make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures, or seek additional equity.. Our governing documents and Nevada law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and discourage a takeover.. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Nevada law make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and make a takeover more difficult to complete, even if such a transaction were in our stockholders' interest or might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders.. The issuance of additional common stock in the future, including shares that we may issue pursuant to option grants, may result in dilution in the net tangible book value per share of our common stock.. Our board of directors has the legal power and authority to determine the terms of an offering of shares of our capital stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for these shares, to the extent of our shares of authorized and unissued capital stock.. 34. The sale of a substantial number of shares that are eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. As of April 30, 2018, there were 54,266,843 shares of our common stock outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities laws, unless held by an \"affiliate\" of our company, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the securities laws. Shares held by affiliates of our company, which generally include our directors, executive officers, and certain principal stockholders, are subject to the resale limitations of Rule 144 described below.. In general, under Rule 144 as currently in effect, any person or persons whose shares are aggregated for purposes of Rule 144, who is deemed an affiliate of our company and beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least six months has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell within any three-month period a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock and the average weekly trading volume in common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding such sale. Sales by affiliates under Rule 144 also are subject to certain manner-of-sale provisions and notice requirements and to the availability of current public information about us. Rule 701, as currently in effect, permits our employees, officers, directors, and consultants who purchase shares pursuant to a written compensatory plan or contract to resell these shares in reliance upon Rule 144, but without compliance with specific restrictions.. Rule 701 provides that affiliates may sell their Rule 701 shares under Rule 144 without complying with the holding period requirement and that non-affiliates may sell their shares in reliance on Rule 144 without complying with the holding period, public information, volume limitation, or notice provisions of Rule 144. Subject to the availability of current public information about us, a person who is not an affiliate, who has not been an affiliate within three months prior to sale, and who beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least six months has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell such shares under Rule 144 without regard to any of the volume limitations or other requirements described above. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price for our common stock.. As of April 30, 2018, we had outstanding nonqualified stock options to purchase 316,160 shares of common stock under our incentive stock plans and other option agreements, 915,791 undelivered time-based restricted stock units, or RSUs, and 526,525 unearned performance stock units, or PSUs, under our incentive stock plans. We issued 203,002 of the 6,000,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or the ESPP, during fiscal 2018. We have registered for offer and sale the shares of common stock that are reserved for issuance pursuant to our incentive stock plans and available for issuance pursuant to the ESPP. Shares covered by such registration statements upon the exercise of stock options, the vesting of RSUs and PSUs or pursuant to the ESPP generally will be eligible for sale in the public market, except that affiliates will continue to be subject to volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144. The issuance or sale of such shares could depress the market price of our common stock.. We may issue securities that could dilute stockholder ownership and the net tangible book value per share of our common stock.. We may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing to fund our operations. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced and the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. We may not obtain sufficient financing on terms that are favorable to us. We may delay, limit, or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations if adequate funds are not available. We may also issue equity securities as consideration for acquisitions we may make. The issuance of additional common stock in the future, including shares that we may issue pursuant to our incentive stock plans and ESPP, may result in dilution in the net tangible book value per share of our common stock.. 35. Our operating results may involve significant fluctuations.. Various factors contribute to significant periodic and seasonal fluctuations in our operating results. These factors include the following:. •  the volume of customer orders relative to our capacity;. •  the success of product and service introductions and market acceptance of new products by us and our competitors;. •  timing of expenditures in anticipation of future customer orders;. •  effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes and costs;. •  changes in cost and availability of labor and components;. •  ability to manage inventory and inventory obsolescence;. •  social and political factors specific to our industry;. •  pricing and other competitive pressures; and. •  changes or anticipated changes in economic, social, political, legislative, and regulatory factors.. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any period as an indication of our future performance. If our operating results fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations as a result of many factors.. Many factors could affect the market price of our common stock, including the following:. •  variations in our operating results;. •  the relatively small public float of our common stock;. •  introductions of new products and services by us or our competitors;. •  the performance of our distributors;. •  changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that follow our stock;. •  general economic, social, political, and market conditions and consumer spending patterns;. •  governmental policies and regulations;. •  investor reaction to news events;. •  the general performance of the markets in which we participate; and. •  factors relating to suppliers and competitors.. In addition, market demand for small-capitalization stocks, and price and volume fluctuations in the stock market unrelated to our performance, could result in significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. The performance of our common stock could adversely affect our ability to raise equity in the public markets and adversely affect the growth of our business.. 36. We depend on key personnel, our business may be harmed, if we fail to retain and attract skilled management and other key personnel.. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our current management team, including P. James Debney, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Debney or one or more of our other key executives or employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Except for Mr. Debney, we do not maintain \"key person\" insurance policies on the lives of any of our executive officers or any of our other employees. We employ all of our executive officers and key employees on an at-will basis, and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason, and without advance notice, subject to certain severance obligations upon termination. In order to retain valuable employees, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we regard our ability as a public company to grant stock-based compensation as an important component of our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The value to employees of stock-based compensation over time will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control and may at any time be insufficient to counteract offers from other companies.. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate additional skilled management personnel. We plan to continue to expand our work force to continue to enhance our business and operating results. We believe that there is significant competition for qualified personnel with the skills and knowledge that we require, particularly as a result of ongoing firearm industry consolidation and other industry developments. Many of the other companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high-quality candidates than those which we have to offer. If we are not able to retain our current key personnel, or attract the necessary qualified key personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our business objectives and our ability to pursue our business strategy. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. New employees may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. If our recruiting, training, and retention efforts are not successful or do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue, our business will be harmed."
