[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by applicable law. You should, however, consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC.. Risks Related to Our Business. If demand for our energy efficiency and renewable energy solutions does not develop as we expect, our revenues will suffer and our business will be harmed.. We believe, and our growth plans assume, that the market for energy efficiency and renewable energy solutions will continue to grow, that we will increase our penetration of this market and that our revenues from selling into this market will continue to increase over time. If our expectations as to the size of this market and our ability to sell our products and services in this market are not correct, our revenues will suffer and our business will be harmed.. In order to secure contracts for new projects, we typically face a long and variable selling cycle that requires significant resource commitments and requires a long lead time before we realize revenues.. The sales, design and construction process for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects recently has been taking from 18 to 54 months on average, with sales to federal government and housing authority customers tending to require the longest sales processes. Our existing and potential customers generally follow extended budgeting and procurement processes, and sometimes must engage in regulatory approval processes related to our services. Our customers often use outside consultants and advisors, which contributes to a longer sales cycle. Most of our potential customers issue an RFP, as part of their consideration of alternatives for their proposed project. In preparation for responding to an RFP, we typically conduct a preliminary audit of the customer's needs and the opportunity to reduce its energy costs. For projects involving a renewable energy plant that is not located on a customer's site or that uses sources of energy not within the customer's control, the sales process also involves the identification of sites with attractive sources of renewable energy, such as a landfill or a favorable site for solar PV, and it may involve obtaining necessary rights and governmental permits to develop a project on that site. If we are awarded a project, we then perform a more detailed audit of the customer's facilities, which serves as the basis for the final specifications of the project. We then must negotiate and execute a contract with the customer.  In addition, we or the customer typically need to obtain financing for the project.. This extended sales process requires the dedication of significant time by our sales and management personnel and our use of significant financial resources, with no certainty of success or recovery of our related expenses. A potential customer may go through the entire sales process and not accept our proposal. All of these factors can contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance and increase the likelihood that our operating results in a particular quarter will fall below investor expectations. These factors could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results due to increased spending by us that is not offset by increased revenues.. 7. Table of Contents. We may not recognize all revenues from our backlog or receive all payments anticipated under awarded projects and customer contracts.. As of December 31, 2017, we had backlog of approximately $572.5 million in expected future revenues under signed customer contracts for the installation or construction of projects, which we sometimes refer to as fully-contracted backlog; and we also had been awarded projects for which we do not yet have signed customer contracts with estimated total future revenues of an additional $1,199.0 million. As of December 31, 2016, we had fully-contracted backlog of approximately $534.1 million; and we also had awarded projects for which we had not yet have signed customer contracts with estimated total future revenues of an additional $957.6 million. As of December 31, 2015, we had fully-contracted backlog of approximately $390.4 million; and we also had been awarded projects for which we had not yet signed customer contracts with estimated total future revenues of an additional $955.8 million.. Our customers have the right under some circumstances to terminate contracts or defer the timing of our services and their payments to us. In addition, our government contracts are subject to the risks described below under \"Provisions in government contracts may harm our business, financial condition and operating results.\" The payment estimates for projects that have been awarded to us but for which we have not yet signed contracts have been prepared by management and are based upon a number of assumptions, including that the size and scope of the awarded projects will not change prior to the signing of customer contracts, that we or our customers will be able to obtain any necessary third-party financing for the awarded projects, and that we and our customers will reach agreement on and execute contracts for the awarded projects. We are not always able to enter into a contract for an awarded project on the terms proposed. As a result, we may not receive all of the revenues that we include in the awarded projects component of our backlog or that we estimate we will receive under awarded projects. If we do not receive all of the revenue we currently expect to receive, our future operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, a delay in the receipt of revenues, even if such revenues are eventually received, may cause our operating results for a particular quarter to fall below our expectations.. Revenue recognition accounting pronouncements may materially adversely affect our reported results of operations.. We continuously review our compliance with all new and existing revenue recognition accounting pronouncements.  In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (\"ASU 2014-09\"), which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance.  We adopted this guidance and its subsequent amendments effective as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition approach beginning with our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2018. Under this approach, the new standard would apply to all new contracts initiated on or after January 1, 2018. For existing contracts that have remaining obligations as of January 1, 2018, any difference between the recognition criteria in these ASUs and the Company's current revenue recognition practices would be recognized using a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.  Specifically we expect up to a 6 month delay in the timing of revenue recognition related to solar renewable energy credits (\"SRECs\") or renewable energy attributes, as well as potential changes in timing of revenue recognition on contracts with uninstalled materials if a significant delay is anticipated between purchasing and installation.  See Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Note 2, \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding ASU 2014-09.. Our business depends in part on federal, state, provincial and local government support for energy efficiency and renewable energy, and a decline in such support could harm our business.. We depend in part on legislation and government policies that support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects that enhance the economic feasibility of our energy efficiency services and small-scale renewable energy projects. This support includes legislation and regulations that authorize and regulate the manner in which certain governmental entities do business with us; encourage or subsidize governmental procurement of our services; encourage or in some cases require other customers to procure power from renewable or low-emission sources, to reduce their electricity use or otherwise to procure our services; and provide us with tax and other incentives that reduce our costs or increase our revenues. Without this support, on which projects frequently rely for economic feasibility, our ability to complete projects for existing customers and obtain project commitments from new customers could be adversely affected.. 8. Table of Contents. A substantial portion of our earnings are derived from the sale of solar renewable energy certificates (\"SRECs\") and other environmental attributes, and our failure to be able to sell such attributes could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation.. A substantial portion of our earnings (approximately 25% for fiscal 2017) are attributable to our sale of RECs and other environmental attributes generated by our energy assets. These attributes are used as compliance purposes for state-specific or U.S. federal policy.. We own and operate solar PV installations which derive a significant portion of their revenues from the sale of SRECs, which are produced as a result of generating electricity. The value of these SRECs is determined by the supply and demand of SRECs in the states in which the solar PV installations are installed. Supply is driven by the amount of installations and demand is driven by state-specific laws relating to renewable portfolio standards.. We also own and operate renewable natural gas plants that may deliver biofuels into to the nation's natural gas pipeline grid. Such biofuel may qualify for certain environmental attribute mechanisms, such as renewable identification numbers (\"RINs\") which are used for compliance purposes under the Renewable Fuel Standard (\"RFS\") program. The RFS is a U.S. federal policy that requires transportation fuel to contain a minimum volume of renewable fuel. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") administers the RFS program and may periodically undertake regulatory action involving the RFS, including annual volume standards for renewable fuel.. We sometimes seek to sell forward a portion of our SRECs and other environmental attributes under contracts to fix the revenues from those attributes for financing purposes or hedge against future declines in prices of such environmental attributes. If our renewable energy facilities do not generate the amount of renewable energy attributes sold under such forward contracts or if for any reason the renewable energy we generate does not produce SRECs or other environmental attributes for a particular state, we may be required to make up the shortfall of SRECs or other environmental attributes under such forward contracts through purchases on the open market or make payments of liquidated damages.. RECs are created through state law requirements for utilities to purchase a portion of their energy from renewable energy sources and changes in state laws or regulation relating to RECs may adversely affect the availability of RECs or other environmental attributes and the future prices for RECs or other environmental attributes, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant decline in the fiscal health of federal, state, provincial and local governments could reduce demand for our energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.. Historically, including for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, more than  77% of our revenues have been derived from sales to federal, state, provincial or local governmental entities, including public housing authorities and public universities. We expect revenues from this market sector to continue to comprise a significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. A significant decline in the fiscal health of these existing and potential customers may make it difficult for them to enter into contracts for our services or to obtain financing necessary to fund such contracts, or may cause them to seek to renegotiate or terminate existing agreements with us. In addition, if there is a partial shutdown of any federal, state, provincial or local governing body this may adversely impact our financial performance.. Provisions in our government contracts may harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. A significant majority of our fully-contracted backlog and awarded projects is attributable to customers that are government entities. Our contracts with the federal government and its agencies, and with state, provincial and local governments, customarily contain provisions that give the government substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions that allow the government to:. • terminate existing contracts, in whole or in part, for any reason or no reason;. • reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts;. • decline to award future contracts if actual or apparent organizational conflicts of interest are discovered, or to impose organizational conflict mitigation measures as a condition of eligibility for an award;. • suspend or debar the contractor from doing business with the government or a specific government agency; and. 9. Table of Contents. • pursue criminal or civil remedies under the False Claims Act, False Statements Act and similar remedy provisions unique to government contracting.. Under general principles of government contracting law, if the government terminates a contract for convenience, the terminated company may recover only its incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, the defaulting company is entitled to recover costs incurred and associated profits on accepted items only and may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items from another source. In most of our contracts with the federal government, the government has agreed to make a payment to us in the event that it terminates the agreement early. The termination payment is designed to compensate us for the cost of construction plus financing costs and profit on the work completed.. In ESPCs for governmental entities, the methodologies for computing energy savings may be less favorable than for non-governmental customers and may be modified during the contract period. We may be liable for price reductions if the projected savings cannot be substantiated.. In addition to the right of the federal government to terminate its contracts with us, federal government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing approval by Congress of the necessary spending to honor such contracts. Congress often appropriates funds for a program on a September 30 fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. Consequently, at the beginning of many major Governmental programs, contracts often may not be fully funded, and additional monies are then committed to the contract only if, as and when appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. Similar practices are likely to also affect the availability of funding for our contracts with Canadian, as well as state, provincial and local government entities. If one or more of our government contracts were terminated or reduced, or if appropriations for the funding of one or more of our contracts is delayed or terminated, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. Our senior credit facility, project financing term loans and construction contain financial and operating restrictions that may limit our business activities and our access to credit.. Provisions in our senior credit facility, project financing term loans and construction loans impose customary restrictions on our and certain of our subsidiaries' business activities and uses of cash and other collateral. These agreements also contain other customary covenants, including covenants that require us to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests.. We have a $75 million revolving senior secured credit facility that matures June 2020, subject to the quarter end ratio covenant described below. This facility may not be sufficient to meet our needs as our business grows, and we may be unable to extend or replace it on acceptable terms, or at all.  Under the revolving credit facility we are required to maintain a maximum ratio of total funded debt to EBITDA (as defined in the agreement) of less than 2.75 to 1.0 as of the end of each fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2016 and thereafter. We are also required to maintain a debt service coverage ratio (as defined in the agreement) of at least 1.5 to 1.0. EBITDA for purposes of the facility excludes the results of certain renewable energy projects that we own and for which financing from others remains outstanding.. In addition, our project financing term loans and construction loans require us to comply with a variety of financial and operational covenants.. Although we do not consider it likely that we will fail to comply with any of these covenants for the next twelve months, we cannot assure that we will be able to do so.  Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and cause us to be unable to borrow under our credit facility. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under this facility, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under it or the applicable project financing term loan, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. Certain of our debt agreements also contain subjective acceleration clauses based on a lender deeming that a \"material adverse change\" in our business has occurred. If these clauses are implicated, and the lender declares that an event of default has occurred, the outstanding indebtedness would likely be immediately due and owing. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all.. 10. Table of Contents. The projects we undertake for our customers generally require significant capital, which our customers or we may finance through third parties, and such financing may not be available to our customers or to us on favorable terms, if at all.. Our projects for customers are typically financed by third parties. For small-scale renewable energy plants that we own, we typically rely on a combination of our working capital and debt to finance construction costs. If we or our customers are unable to raise funds on acceptable terms when needed, we may be unable to secure customer contracts, the size of contracts we do obtain may be smaller or we could be required to delay the development and construction of projects, reduce the scope of those projects or otherwise restrict our operations. Any inability by us or our customers to raise the funds necessary to finance our projects could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. Project development or construction activities may not be successful, and we may make significant investments without first obtaining project financing, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments.. The development and construction of small-scale renewable energy plants and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. We may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or capable of being built. In addition, we will often choose to bear the costs of such efforts prior to obtaining project financing, prior to getting final regulatory approval and prior to our final sale to a customer, if any.. Successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: failures or delays in obtaining desired or necessary land rights, including ownership, leases and/or easements; failures or delays in obtaining necessary permits, licenses or other governmental support or approvals, or in overcoming objections from members of the public or adjoining land owners; uncertainties relating to land costs for projects; unforeseen engineering problems; access to available transmission for electricity generated by our small-scale renewable energy plants; construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls; work stoppages or labor disruptions and compliance with labor regulations; cost over-runs; availability of products and components from suppliers; adverse weather conditions; environmental, archaeological and geological conditions; and availability of construction and permanent financing.. If we are unable to complete the development of a small-scale renewable energy plants or fail to meet one or more agreed target construction milestone dates, we may be subject to liquidated damages and/or penalties under the Engineering Procurement and Construction agreement or other agreements relating to the power plant or project, and we typically will not be able to recover our investment in the project. We expect to invest a significant amount of capital to develop projects whether owned by us or by third parties. If we are unable to complete the development of a project, we may write-down or write-off some or all of these capitalized investments, which would have an adverse impact on our net income in the period in which the loss is recognized.. Our business is affected by seasonal trends and construction cycles, and these trends and cycles could have an adverse effect on our operating results.. We are subject to seasonal fluctuations and construction cycles, particularly in climates that experience colder weather during the winter months, such as the northern United States and Canada, or at educational institutions, where large projects are typically carried out during summer months when their facilities are unoccupied. In addition, government customers, many of which have fiscal years that do not coincide with ours, typically follow annual procurement cycles and appropriate funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. Further, government contracting cycles can be affected by the timing of, and delays in, the legislative process related to government programs and incentives that help drive demand for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. As a result, our revenues and operating income in the third and fourth quarter are typically higher, and our revenues and operating income in the first quarter are typically lower, than in other quarters of the year. As a result of such fluctuations, we may occasionally experience declines in revenue or earnings as compared to the immediately preceding quarter, and comparisons of our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful.. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income.. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or regulations, particularly changes in tax incentives in support of energy efficiency. For example, certain deductions relating to energy efficiency have expiration dates which could significantly alter the existing tax code, including the removal of these credits prior to their scheduled expiration. The 30% investment tax credit (\"ITC\") relating to the installation of solar power was. 11. Table of Contents. extended through 2019, after which it will fall to 26 percent in 2020, 22 percent in 2021, and 10 percent in 2022 and future years.  If these or other deductions and credits expire without being extended, or otherwise are reduced or eliminated, our effective tax rate would increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income.. Our tax rate has historically been significantly impacted by the IRC Section 179D deduction. This deduction is related to energy efficient improvements we provide under government contracts. Section 179D was extended through December 31, 2017 as part of the Bipartisan Budget Act which became law on February 9, 2018. There is no assurance that Section 179D will continue to be extended retroactively or otherwise and were the deduction not available it would significantly affect our tax rate.. In addition, like other companies, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities; our U.S. federal tax returns for 2014 through 2016 are subject to audit by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. Though we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our net income.. Changes in the laws and regulations governing the public procurement of ESPCs could have a material impact on our business.. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from ESPCs with our government customers. While federal, state and local government rules governing such contracts vary, such rules may, for example, permit the funding of such projects through long-term financing arrangements; permit long-term payback periods from the savings realized through such contracts; allow units of government to exclude debt related to such projects from the calculation of their statutory debt limitation; allow for award of contracts on a \"best value\" instead of \"lowest cost\" basis; and allow for the use of sole source providers. To the extent these rules become more restrictive in the future, our business could be harmed.. Failure of third parties to manufacture quality products or provide reliable services in a timely manner could cause delays in the delivery of our services and completion of our projects, which could damage our reputation, have a negative impact on our relationships with our customers and adversely affect our growth.. Our success depends on our ability to provide services and complete projects in a timely manner, which in part depends on the ability of third parties to provide us with timely and reliable products and services. In providing our services and completing our projects, we rely on products that meet our design specifications and components manufactured and supplied by third parties, as well as on services performed by subcontractors.We also rely on subcontractors to perform substantially all of the construction and installation work related to our projects; and we often need to engage subcontractors with whom we have no experience for our projects.. If any of our subcontractors are unable to provide services that meet or exceed our customers' expectations or satisfy our contractual commitments, our reputation, business and operating results could be harmed. In addition, if we are unable to avail ourselves of warranty and other contractual protections with providers of products and services, we may incur liability to our customers or additional costs related to the affected products and components, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, any delays, malfunctions, inefficiencies or interruptions in these products or services could adversely affect the quality and performance of our solutions and require considerable expense to establish alternate sources for such products and services.  This could cause us to experience difficulty retaining current customers and attracting new customers, and could harm our brand, reputation and growth.. We may have liability to our customers under our ESPCs if our projects fail to deliver the energy use reductions to which we are committed under the contract.. For our energy efficiency projects, we typically enter into ESPCs under which we commit that the projects will satisfy agreed-upon performance standards appropriate to the project.  These commitments are typically structured as guarantees of increased energy efficiency that are based on the design, capacity, efficiency or operation of the specific equipment and systems we install.  Our commitments generally fall into three categories: pre-agreed, equipment-level and whole building-level. Under a pre-agreed efficiency commitment, our customer reviews the project design in advance and agrees that, upon or shortly after completion of installation of the specified equipment comprising the project, the pre-agreed increase in energy efficiency will have been met. Under an equipment-level commitment, we commit to a level of increased energy efficiency based on the difference in use measured first with the existing equipment and then with the replacement equipment upon completion of installation. A whole building-level commitment requires future measurement and verification of increased energy efficiency. 12. Table of Contents. for a whole building, often based on readings of the utility meter where usage is measured. Depending on the project, the measurement and verification may be required only once, upon installation, based on an analysis of one or more sample installations, or may be required to be repeated at agreed upon intervals generally over periods of up to 20 years.. Under our contracts, we typically do not take responsibility for a wide variety of factors outside our control and exclude or adjust for such factors in commitment calculations. These factors include variations in energy prices and utility rates, weather, facility occupancy schedules, the amount of energy-using equipment in a facility, and failure of the customer to operate or maintain the project properly.  We rely in part on warranties from our equipment suppliers and subcontractors to back-stop the warranties we provide to our customers and, where appropriate, pass on the warranties to our customers. However, the warranties we provide to our customers are sometimes broader in scope or longer in duration than the corresponding warranties we receive from our suppliers and subcontractors, and we bear the risk for any differences, as well as the risk of warranty default by our suppliers and subcontractors.. Typically, our performance commitments apply to the aggregate overall performance of a project rather than to individual energy efficiency measures. Therefore, to the extent an individual measure underperforms, it may be offset by other measures that overperform during the same period. In the event that an energy efficiency project does not perform according to the agreed-upon specifications, our agreements typically allow us to satisfy our obligation by adjusting or modifying the installed equipment, installing additional measures to provide substitute energy savings, or paying the customer for lost energy savings based on the assumed conditions specified in the agreement. However, we may incur additional or increased liabilities or expenses under our ESPCs in the future.  Such liabilities or expenses could be substantial, and they could materially harm our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, any disputes with a customer over the extent to which we bear responsibility to improve performance or make payments to the customer may diminish our prospects for future business from that customer or damage our reputation in the marketplace.. We may assume responsibility under customer contracts for factors outside our control, including, in connection with some customer projects, the risk that fuel prices will increase.. We typically do not take responsibility under our contracts for a wide variety of factors outside our control. We have, however, in a limited number of contracts assumed some level of risk and responsibility for certain factors  -  sometimes only to the extent that variations exceed specified thresholds  -  and may also do so under certain contracts in the future, particularly in our contracts for renewable energy projects. For example, under a contract for the construction and operation of a cogeneration facility at the U.S. Department of Energy Savannah River Site in South Carolina, a subsidiary of ours is exposed to the risk that the price of the biomass that will be used to fuel the cogeneration facility may rise during the 19-year performance period of the contract. Several provisions in that contract mitigate the price risk. In addition, although we typically structure our contracts so that our obligation to supply a customer with LFG, electricity or steam, for example, does not exceed the quantity produced by the production facility, in some circumstances we may commit to supply a customer with specified minimum quantities based on our projections of the facility's production capacity. In such circumstances, if we are unable to meet such commitments, we may be required to incur additional costs or face penalties. Despite the steps we have taken to mitigate risks under these and other contracts, such steps may not be sufficient to avoid the need to incur increased costs to satisfy our commitments, and such costs could be material. Increased costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our business depends on experienced and skilled personnel and substantial specialty subcontractor resources, and if we lose key personnel or if we are unable to attract and integrate additional skilled personnel, it will be more difficult for us to manage our business and complete projects.. The success of our business and construction projects depend in large part on the skill of our personnel and on trade labor resources, including with certain specialty subcontractor skills. Competition for personnel, particularly those with expertise in the energy services and renewable energy industries, is high. In the event we are unable to attract, hire and retain the requisite personnel and subcontractors, we may experience delays in completing projects in accordance with project schedules and budgets. Further, any increase in demand for personnel and specialty subcontractors may result in higher costs, causing us to exceed the budget on a project. Either of these circumstances may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, harm our reputation among and relationships with our customers and cause us to curtail our pursuit of new projects.. Our future success is particularly dependent on the vision, skills, experience and effort of our senior management team, including our executive officers and our founder, principal stockholder, president and chief executive officer, George P.. 13. Table of Contents. Sakellaris. If we were to lose the services of any of our executive officers or key employees, our ability to effectively manage our operations and implement our strategy could be harmed and our business may suffer.. If we cannot obtain surety bonds and letters of credit, our ability to operate may be restricted.. Federal and state laws require us to secure the performance of certain long-term obligations through surety bonds and letters of credit.  In addition, we are occasionally required to provide bid bonds or performance bonds to secure our performance under energy efficiency contracts. In the future, we may have difficulty procuring or maintaining surety bonds or letters of credit, and obtaining them may become more expensive, require us to post cash collateral or otherwise involve unfavorable terms. Because we are sometimes required to have performance bonds or letters of credit in place before projects can commence or continue, our failure to obtain or maintain those bonds and letters of credit would adversely affect our ability to begin and complete projects, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our current or future competitors may be able to compete more effectively than we do, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, growth rates and market share.. Our industry is highly competitive, with many companies of varying size and business models, many of which have their own proprietary technologies, competing for the same business as we do. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources than us, and could focus their substantial financial resources to develop a competitive advantage.  Our competitors may also offer energy solutions at prices below cost, devote significant sales forces to competing with us or attempt to recruit our key personnel by increasing compensation, any of which could improve their competitive positions.  Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, cause us to lower our prices in order to compete, and reduce our market share and revenues, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete against our current competitors or additional companies that may enter our markets.. In addition, we may also face competition based on technological developments that reduce demand for electricity, increase power supplies through existing infrastructure or that otherwise compete with our products and services. We also encounter competition in the form of potential customers electing to develop solutions or perform services internally rather than engaging an outside provider such as us.. We may be unable to complete or operate our projects on a profitable basis or as we have committed to our customers.. Development, installation and construction of our energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, and operation of our renewable energy projects, entails many risks, including:. • failure to receive critical components and equipment that meet our design specifications and can be delivered on schedule;. • failure to obtain all necessary rights to land access and use;. • failure to receive quality and timely performance of third-party services;. • increases in the cost of labor, equipment and commodities needed to construct or operate projects;. • permitting and other regulatory issues, license revocation and changes in legal requirements;. • shortages of equipment or skilled labor;. • unforeseen engineering problems;. • failure of a customer to accept or pay for renewable energy that we supply;. • weather interferences, catastrophic events including fires, explosions, earthquakes, droughts and acts of terrorism; and accidents involving personal injury or the loss of life;. • labor disputes and work stoppages;. • mishandling of hazardous substances and waste; and. • other events outside of our control.. 14. Table of Contents. Any of these factors could give rise to construction delays and construction and other costs in excess of our expectations.  This could prevent us from completing construction of our projects, cause defaults under our financing agreements or under contracts that require completion of project construction by a certain time, cause projects to be unprofitable for us, or otherwise impair our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our small-scale renewable energy plants may not generate expected levels of output.. The small-scale renewable energy plants that we construct and own are subject to various operating risks that may cause them to generate less than expected amounts of processed LFG, electricity or thermal energy. These risks include a failure or degradation of our, our customers' or utilities' equipment; an inability to find suitable replacement equipment or parts; less than expected supply of the plant's source of renewable energy, such as LFG or biomass; or a faster than expected diminishment of such supply. Any extended interruption in the plant's operation, or failure of the plant for any reason to generate the expected amount of output, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, we have in the past, and could in the future, incur material asset impairment charges if any of our renewable energy plants incurs operational issues that indicate that our expected future cash flows from the plant are less than its carrying value.  Any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our operating results in the period in which the charge is recorded.. We have not entered into offtake agreements for certain of our small-scale renewable energy plants.. We have not entered into long-term offtake agreements for a minor portion of our small-scale renewable energy plants, particularly LFG plants, and we are required to sell the processed LFG or electricity produced by the facility at wholesale prices, which are exposed to market fluctuations and risks.  The failure to sell such processed LFG or electricity at a favorable price could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. We may not be able to replace expiring offtake agreements with contracts on similar terms. If we are unable to replace an expired offtake agreement with an acceptable new contract, we may be required to remove the small-scale renewable energy plant from the site or, alternatively, we may sell the assets to the customer.. We may not be able to replace an expiring offtake agreement with a contract on equivalent terms and conditions, including at prices that permit operation of the related facility on a profitable basis. If we are unable to replace an expiring offtake agreement with an acceptable new revenue contract, the affected site may temporarily or permanently cease operations or we may be required to sell the power produced by the facility at wholesale prices which are exposed to market fluctuations and risks. In the case of a solar photovoltaic installation that ceases operations, the offtake agreement terms generally require that we remove the assets, including fixing or reimbursing the site owner for any damages caused by the assets or the removal of such assets. Alternatively, we may agree to sell the assets to the site owner, but the terms and conditions, including price, that we would receive in any sale, and the sale price may not be sufficient to replace the revenue previously generated by the small-scale renewable energy plant.. We plan to expand our business in part through future acquisitions, but we may not be able to identify or complete suitable acquisitions.. Historically, acquisitions have been a significant part of our growth strategy. We plan to continue to use acquisitions of companies or assets to expand our project skill-sets and capabilities, expand our geographic markets, add experienced management and increase our product and service offerings. However, we may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates, reach agreement with acquisition targets on acceptable terms or arrange required financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms. In addition, the time and effort involved in attempting to identify acquisition candidates and consummate acquisitions may divert members of our management from the operations of our company.. Any future acquisitions that we may make could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, financial condition or operating results.. If we are successful in consummating acquisitions, those acquisitions could subject us to a number of risks, including:. • the purchase price we pay could significantly deplete our cash reserves or result in dilution to our existing stockholders;. • we may find that the acquired company or assets do not improve our customer offerings or market position as planned;. 15. Table of Contents. • we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company;. • key personnel and customers of the acquired company may terminate their relationships with the acquired company as a result of the acquisition;. • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning and financial reporting;. • we may incur additional costs and expenses related to complying with additional laws, rules or regulations in new jurisdictions;. • we may assume or be held liable for risks and liabilities (including for environmental-related costs) as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not discover during our due diligence or adequately adjust for in our acquisition arrangements;. • our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises;. • we may incur one-time write-offs or restructuring charges in connection with the acquisition;. • we may acquire goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to amortization or impairment tests, which could result in future charges to earnings; and. • we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated.. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We may be required to write-off or impair capitalized costs or intangible assets in the future or we may incur restructuring costs or other charges, each of which could harm our earnings.. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to our acquisitions, pending acquisitions, project development costs, interest costs related to project financing and certain energy assets. In addition, we have considerable unamortized assets. From time to time in future periods, we may be required to incur a charge against earnings in an amount equal to any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances, net of any portion thereof that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise, relating to: (i) any operation or other asset that is being sold, permanently shut down, impaired or has not generated or is not expected to generate sufficient cash flow; (ii) any pending acquisition that is not consummated; (iii) any project that is not expected to be successfully completed; and (iv) any goodwill or other intangible assets that are determined to be impaired.. In response to such charges and costs and other market factors, we may be required to implement restructuring plans in an effort to reduce the size and cost of our operations and to better match our resources with our market opportunities. As a result of such actions, we would expect to incur restructuring expenses and accounting charges which may be material. Several factors could cause a restructuring to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These include potential disruption of our operations, the development of our small-scale renewable energy projects and other aspects of our business. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer and result in unintended employee attrition. Any restructuring would require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing any restructuring plans, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense.. See also Note 2, \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies\" and Note 4, \"Goodwill and Intangible Assets\", to our Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We need governmental approvals and permits, and we typically must meet specified qualifications, in order to undertake our energy efficiency projects and construct, own and operate our small-scale renewable energy projects, and any failure to do so would harm our business.. The design, construction and operation of our energy efficiency and small-scale renewable energy projects require various governmental approvals and permits, and may be subject to the imposition of related conditions that vary by jurisdiction. In some cases, these approvals and permits require periodic renewal. We cannot predict whether all permits required for a given project will be granted or whether the conditions associated with the permits will be achievable. The denial of a permit essential to a project or the imposition of impractical conditions would impair our ability to develop the project. In addition, we cannot. 16. Table of Contents. predict whether the permits will attract significant opposition or whether the permitting process will be lengthened due to complexities and appeals. Delay in the review and permitting process for a project can impair or delay our ability to develop that project or increase the cost so substantially that the project is no longer attractive to us. We have experienced delays in developing our projects due to delays in obtaining permits and may experience delays in the future. If we were to commence construction in anticipation of obtaining the final, non-appealable permits needed for that project, we would be subject to the risk of being unable to complete the project if all the permits were not obtained. If this were to occur, we would likely lose a significant portion of our investment in the project and could incur a loss as a result. Further, the continued operations of our projects require continuous compliance with permit conditions. This compliance may require capital improvements or result in reduced operations. Any failure to procure, maintain and comply with necessary permits would adversely affect ongoing development, construction and continuing operation of our projects.. In addition, the projects we perform for governmental agencies are governed by particular qualification and contracting regimes. Certain states require qualification with an appropriate state agency as a precondition to performing work or appearing as a qualified energy service provider for state, county and local agencies within the state. For example, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the states of Colorado and Washington pre-qualify energy service providers and provide contract documents that serve as the starting point for negotiations with potential governmental clients. Most of the work that we perform for the federal government is performed under IDIQ agreements between a government agency and us or a subsidiary. These IDIQ agreements allow us to contract with the relevant agencies to implement energy projects, but no work may be performed unless we and the agency agree on a task order or delivery order governing the provision of a specific project. The government agencies enter into contracts for specific projects on a competitive basis. We and our subsidiaries and affiliates are currently party to two IDIQ agreements with the U.S. Department of Energy expiring in 2019 and in 2022, respectively. We are also party to similar agreements with other federal agencies, including the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the U.S. General Services Administration. If we are unable to maintain or renew our IDIQ qualification under the U.S. Department of Energy program for ESPCs, or similar federal or state qualification regimes, our business could be materially harmed.  We are also party to similar agreements with other federal agencies, including the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the U.S. General Services Administration.. If we are unable to maintain or renew our IDIQ qualification under the U.S. Department of Energy program for ESPCs, or similar federal or state qualification regimes, our business could be materially harmed.. Many of our small-scale renewable energy projects are, and other future projects may be, subject to or affected by U.S. federal energy regulation or other regulations that govern the operation, ownership and sale of the facility, or the sale of electricity from the facility.. PUHCA and the FPA regulate public utility holding companies and their subsidiaries and place constraints on the conduct of their business. The FPA regulates wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Under PURPA, all of our current small-scale renewable energy projects are small power \"qualifying facilities\" (facilities meeting statutory size, fuel and filing requirements) that are exempt from regulations under PUHCA, most provisions of the FPA and state rate and financial regulation. None of our renewable energy projects are currently subject to rate regulation for wholesale power sales by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (\"FERC\") under the FPA, but certain of our projects that are under construction or development could become subject to such regulation in the future.  Also, we may acquire interests in or develop generating projects that are not qualifying facilities. Non-qualifying facility projects would be fully subject to FERC corporate and rate regulation, and would be required to obtain FERC acceptance of their rate schedules for wholesale sales of energy, capacity and ancillary services, which requires substantial disclosures to and discretionary approvals from FERC. FERC may revoke or revise an entity's authorization to make wholesale sales at negotiated, or market-based, rates if FERC determines that we can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry or engage in abusive affiliate transactions or market manipulation. In addition, many public utilities (including any non-qualifying facility generator in which we may invest) are subject to FERC reporting requirements that impose administrative burdens and that, if violated, can expose the company to civil penalties or other risks.. All of our wholesale electric power sales are subject to certain market behavior rules. These rules change from time to time, by virtue of FERC rulemaking proceedings and FERC-ordered amendments to utilities' or power pools' FERC tariffs. If we are deemed to have violated these rules, we will be subject to potential disgorgement of profits associated with the violation and/or suspension or revocation of our market-based rate authority, as well as potential criminal and civil penalties. If we were to lose market-based rate authority for any non-qualifying facility project we may acquire or develop in the future, we would be required to obtain FERC's acceptance of a cost-based rate schedule and could become subject to, among other things, the. 17. Table of Contents. burdensome accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on public utilities with cost-based rate schedules. This could have an adverse effect on the rates we charge for power from our projects and our cost of regulatory compliance.. Wholesale electric power sales are subject to increasing regulation. The terms and conditions for power sales, and the right to enter and remain in the wholesale electric sector, are subject to FERC oversight. Due to major regulatory restructuring initiatives at the federal and state levels, the U.S. electric industry has undergone substantial changes over the past decade. We cannot predict the future design of wholesale power markets or the ultimate effect ongoing regulatory changes will have on our business. Other proposals to further regulate the sector may be made and legislative or other attention to the electric power market restructuring process may delay or reverse the movement towards competitive markets.. If we become subject to additional regulation under PUHCA, FPA or other regulatory frameworks, if existing regulatory requirements become more onerous, or if other material changes to the regulation of the electric power markets take place, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. Compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect our operating results.. Costs of compliance with federal, state, provincial, local and other foreign existing and future environmental regulations could adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. We are required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations and to obtain numerous governmental permits in connection with energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, and we may incur significant additional costs to comply with these requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, damages and fines. Existing environmental regulations could be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our projects, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations could occur. These factors may materially increase the amount we must invest to bring our projects into compliance and impose additional expense on our operations.. In addition, private lawsuits or enforcement actions by federal, state, provincial and/or foreign regulatory agencies may materially increase our costs. Certain environmental laws make us potentially liable on a joint and several basis for the remediation of contamination at or emanating from properties or facilities we currently or formerly owned or operated or properties to which we arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances. Such liability is not limited to the cleanup of contamination we actually caused. Although we seek to obtain indemnities against liabilities relating to historical contamination at the facilities we own or operate, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not incur liability relating to the remediation of contamination, including contamination we did not cause.. We may not be able to obtain or maintain, from time to time, all required environmental regulatory approvals. A delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or failure to obtain and comply with them could adversely affect our business and operating results.. International expansion is one of our growth strategies, and international operations will expose us to additional risks that we do not face in the United States, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results.. We generate a portion of our revenues from operations in Canada and the U.K., and although we are engaged in overseas projects for the U.S. Department of Defense, we currently derive a small amount of revenues from outside of North America. However, international expansion is one of our growth strategies, and we expect our revenues and operations outside of North America will expand in the future. These operations will be subject to a variety of risks that we do not face in the United States, and that we may face only to a limited degree in Canada, including:. • building and managing highly experienced foreign workforces and overseeing and ensuring the performance of foreign subcontractors;. • increased travel, infrastructure and legal and compliance costs associated with multiple international locations;. • additional withholding taxes or other taxes on our foreign income, and tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or investment;. • imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements, many of which differ from those in the United States;. • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk;. 18. Table of Contents. • longer payment cycles for sales in some foreign countries and potential difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable;. • difficulties in repatriating overseas earnings;. • general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate; and. • political unrest, war, incidents of terrorism, or responses to such events.. Our overall success in international markets will depend, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in managing these risks in each country where we do business. Our failure to manage these risks successfully could harm our international operations, reduce our international sales and increase our costs, thus adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results.. Changes in utility regulation and tariffs could adversely affect our business.. Our business is affected by regulations and tariffs that govern the activities and rates of utilities. For example, utility companies are commonly allowed by regulatory authorities to charge fees to some business customers for disconnecting from the electric grid or for having the capacity to use power from the electric grid for back-up purposes. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of taking advantage of our services and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, financial condition and operating results. Our current generating projects are all operated as qualifying facilities. FERC regulations under the FPA confer upon these facilities key rights to interconnection with local utilities, and can entitle qualifying facilities to enter into power purchase agreements with local utilities, from which the qualifying facilities benefit. Changes to these federal laws and regulations could increase our regulatory burdens and costs, and could reduce our revenues.  State regulatory agencies could award renewable energy certificates or credits that our electric generation facilities produce to our power purchasers, thereby reducing the power sales revenues we otherwise would earn. In addition, modifications to the pricing policies of utilities could require renewable energy systems to charge lower prices in order to compete with the price of electricity from the electric grid and may reduce the economic attractiveness of certain energy efficiency measures.. Some of the demand-reduction services we provide for utilities and institutional clients are subject to regulatory tariffs imposed under federal and state utility laws. In addition, the operation of, and electrical interconnection for, our renewable energy projects are subject to federal, state or provincial interconnection and federal reliability standards that are also set forth in utility tariffs. These tariffs specify rules, business practices and economic terms to which we are subject. The tariffs are drafted by the utilities and approved by the utilities' state and federal regulatory commissions. These tariffs change frequently and it is possible that future changes will increase our administrative burden or adversely affect the terms and conditions under which we render service to our customers.. Our activities and operations are subject to numerous health and safety laws and regulations, and if we violate such regulations, we could face penalties and fines.. We are subject to numerous health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations require us to obtain and maintain permits and approvals and implement health and safety programs and procedures to control risks associated with our projects. Compliance with those laws and regulations can require us to incur substantial costs. Moreover, if our compliance programs are not successful, we could be subject to penalties or to revocation of our permits, which may require us to curtail or cease operations of the affected projects. Violations of laws, regulations and permit requirements may also result in criminal sanctions or injunctions.. Health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements may change or become more stringent. Any such changes could require us to incur materially higher costs than we currently have. Our costs of complying with current and future health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements, and any liabilities, fines or other sanctions resulting from violations of them, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We are subject to various privacy and consumer protection laws.. Our privacy policy is posted on our website, and any failure by us or our vendor or other business partners to comply with it or with federal, state or international privacy, data protection or security laws or regulations could result in regulatory or litigation-related actions against us, legal liability, fines, damages and other costs. We may also incur substantial expenses and costs in connection with maintaining compliance with such laws. For example, commencing in May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\") will fully apply to the processing of personal information collected from individuals. 19. Table of Contents. located in the European Union. The GDPR will create new compliance obligations and will significantly increase fines for noncompliance. Although we take steps to protect the security of our customers' personal information, we may be required to expend significant resources to comply with data breach requirements if third parties improperly obtain and use the personal information of our customers or we otherwise experience a data loss with respect to customers' personal information. A major breach of our network security and systems could have negative consequences for our business and future prospects, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced customer demand for our vehicles, and harm to our reputation and brand.. If our subsidiaries default on their obligations under their debt instruments, we may need to make payments to lenders to prevent foreclosure on the collateral securing the debt.. We typically set up subsidiaries to own and finance our renewable energy projects. These subsidiaries incur various types of debt which can be used to finance one or more projects. This debt is typically structured as non-recourse debt, which means it is repayable solely from the revenues from the projects financed by the debt and is secured by such projects' physical assets, major contracts and cash accounts and a pledge of our equity interests in the subsidiaries involved in the projects. Although our subsidiary debt is typically non-recourse to Ameresco, if a subsidiary of ours defaults on such obligations, or if one project out of several financed by a particular subsidiary's indebtedness encounters difficulties or is terminated, then we may from time to time determine to provide financial support to the subsidiary in order to maintain rights to the project or otherwise avoid the adverse consequences of a default. In the event a subsidiary defaults on its indebtedness, its creditors may foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness, which may result in our losing our ownership interest in some or all of the subsidiary's assets. The loss of our ownership interest in a subsidiary or some or all of a subsidiary's assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers.. Most of our revenues are derived under multi-year or long-term contracts with our customers, and our revenues are therefore dependent to a large extent on the creditworthiness of our customers. During periods of economic downturn, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases, and our efforts to monitor and mitigate the associated risks may not be effective in reducing our credit risks. In the event of non-payment by one or more of our customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results.. A portion of our total revenues are generated by our Canadian and U.K. subsidiaries. Changes in exchange rates between the Canadian dollar and the U.S. dollar, as well as the British pound sterling and the U.S. dollar, may adversely affect our operating results.. A failure of our information technology (\"IT\") and data security infrastructure could adversely impact our business and operations.. We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our IT and data security infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to the changing needs of our business. As we implement new systems, they may not perform as expected. We also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades. If we experience a problem with the functioning of an important IT system or a security breach of our IT systems, including during system upgrades and/or new system implementations, the resulting disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business.. We and certain of our third-party vendors receive and store personal information in connection with our human resources operations and other aspects of our business. Despite our implementation of security measures, our IT systems, like those of other companies, are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber attack and other similar disruptions, and we have experienced such incidents in the past. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. A material network breach in the security of our IT systems could include the theft of our intellectual property, trade secrets, customer information, human resources information or other confidential matter.  Although past incidents have not had a material impact on our business operations or financial performance, to the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or an inappropriate disclosure of confidential, proprietary or customer information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, lead to claims against the Company and ultimately harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. 20. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock. The trading price of our Class A common stock is volatile.. The trading price of our Class A common stock is volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, if the stock market in general experiences a significant decline, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or operating results.  Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it would likely result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share, and holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to five votes per share. The lower voting power of our Class A common stock may negatively affect the attractiveness of our Class A common stock to investors and, as a result, its market value.. We have two classes of common stock: Class A common stock, which is listed on the NYSE and which is entitled to one vote per share, and Class B common stock, which is not listed on the any security exchange and is entitled to five votes per share. The difference in the voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock could diminish the market value of our Class A common stock because of the superior voting rights of our Class B common stock and the power those rights confer.. For the foreseeable future, Mr. Sakellaris or his affiliates will be able to control the selection of all members of our board of directors, as well as virtually every other matter that requires stockholder approval, which will severely limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters.. Except in certain limited circumstances required by applicable law, holders of Class A and Class B common stock vote together as a single class on all matters to be voted on by our stockholders. Mr. Sakellaris, our founder, principal stockholder, president and chief executive officer, owns all of our Class B common stock, which, together with his Class A common stock, represents approximately 80% of the combined voting power of our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock.  Under our restated certificate of incorporation, holders of shares of Class B common stock may generally transfer those shares to family members, including spouses and descendants or the spouses of such descendants, as well as to affiliated entities, without having the shares automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock.  Therefore, Mr. Sakellaris, his affiliates, and his family members and descendants will, for the foreseeable future, be able to control the outcome of the voting on virtually all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions such as an acquisition of our company, even if they come to own, in the aggregate, as little as 20% of the economic interest of the outstanding shares of our Class A and Class B common stock.  Moreover, these persons may take actions in their own interests that you or our other stockholders do not view as beneficial.. Though we may repurchase shares of our Class A common stock pursuant to our recently announced share repurchase program, we are not obligated to do so and if we do, we may purchase only a limited number of shares of Class A common stock.. On May 5, 2016, we announced a stock repurchase program under which the Company is currently authorized to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $15.0 million of our outstanding Class A common stock. However, we are not obligated to acquire any shares of our Class A common stock, and holders of our Class A common stock should not rely on the share repurchase program to increase their liquidity. The amount and timing of any share repurchases will depend upon a variety of factors, including the trading price of our Class A common stock, liquidity, securities laws restrictions, other regulatory restrictions, potential alternative uses of capital, and market and economic conditions. We intend to purchase through open market transactions or in privately negotiated transactions, in accordance with applicable securities laws and regulatory limitations. We may reduce or eliminate our share repurchase program in the future. The reduction or elimination of our share repurchase program, particularly if we do not repurchase the full number of shares authorized under the program, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 21. Table of Contents"
