[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider each of the following risks associated with an investment in our common stock and all of the other information in this 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. Our indebtedness contains various covenants that impose restrictions that may affect our ability to operate our business and increase our interest expense.. The Company has an outstanding Senior Secured Term Note (the \"Note\") in the amount of $7.00 million as described in Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. Substantially all of our assets have been pledged as collateral security for the Note. The Note's governing documents contain various affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary for such financing, including various financial covenants which we must meet on a monthly basis. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate our repayment obligations.. Our indebtedness could have negative consequences to us, including:. •  we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt;. •  we may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes;. •  we may need to use all, or a substantial portion, of our available cash flow to pay interest and principal on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities;. •  we may incur cash sweeps under our loan agreement in the event of default;. •  our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions could increase;. •  our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general could be limited;. •  our amount of debt and the amount we must pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. •  our customers may react adversely to our significant debt level and seek or develop alternative suppliers; and. •  our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants in our debt instruments which, among other things, may limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects, including sale of our assets.. The lack of willingness of our vendors to do business with us or to provide adequate payment terms could negatively impact our liquidity and/or reduce the accessibility of products or services we seek to acquire.. We depend on our vendors to provide us with credit terms on our purchases of materials and services. Our vendors could seek to limit the availability of vendor credit to us or modify terms under which they sell to us, or both, thereby adversely impacting our liquidity. As of the date of this report, we have not experienced any significant disruption in our access to materials, services or our operations; however, there can be no assurance that one or more of our vendors may not slow or cease shipments or require or condition the sale or shipment of materials on new payment terms or other assurances. Such circumstances could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain factors, including changes in market conditions and our credit ratings, may limit our access to capital markets and other financing sources and materially increase our borrowing costs.. In addition to credit terms from vendors, our liquidity needs are funded by our operating cash flows, borrowings under our credit agreements, asset sales and access to capital markets. The availability of financing depends on several factors including economic and market conditions, our operating performance, our credit ratings, and lenders' assessments of our business and our industry in general. Changes in these factors may affect our liquidity, cost of financing and our ability to access financing sources. There can be no assurance that our ability to otherwise access the credit markets will not be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy.. We cannot predict whether our plans to enhance our financial flexibility and liquidity to fund our operations will be successful.. We continue to pursue our business growth plans and potential initiatives to enhance our financial flexibility and liquidity. We have experienced significant losses and incurred negative operating cash flows for the past several years, and accordingly we have taken a number of actions to fund our operations and meet our obligations, including the amendment and extension of our loan agreements. We also expect to pursue other near-term actions to support liquidity as further described under Uses and Sources of Liquidity. However, if we continue to incur losses, additional actions may be required to further enhance our liquidity and financial flexibility. The achievement of our initiatives is subject to risks and uncertainties in relation to market conditions and other factors that. 8. may cause our actual performance and results to differ materially from our plans. We cannot assure that cash flows and other internal and external sources of liquidity will at all times be sufficient for our cash requirements. We may need to consider actions to improve our cash position, mitigate any potential liquidity shortfall, pursue additional sources of liquidity, and reduce costs. There can be no assurance that such actions would be successful and we cannot predict the outcome of any actions to generate liquidity, whether such actions would generate the expected liquidity as currently planned, or the availability of additional debt financing. The specific actions taken, the timing, and the overall amount will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, interest in specific assets, valuations of those assets and the underlying operating performance. If we continue to incur operating losses and/or we are not able to generate additional liquidity, the company could be negatively impacted in relation to access to materials or services that are important to the operation of our business.. Our sales may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business is sensitive to customers' spending patterns, which in turn are subject to prevailing economic conditions. Our sales and results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of other factors affect our sales and financial performance, including: actions by our competitors; changes in our product strategy and mix; and impacts due to extreme weather events.. Accordingly, our results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter and comparable sales for any particular future period may increase or decrease.. Our failure to comply with federal, state, local and international laws, or changes in these laws could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to legal risk and government enforcement action that could increase our cost of doing business. Changes in the regulatory environment regarding topics such as product safety and environmental protection could also cause our compliance costs to increase and adversely affect our results of operations. Our performance could also be impacted by trade policies and agreements, changes in legislation, energy and environmental standards, and tax laws and regulations. Additionally, future legislation or regulations, including environmental matters, product certification, product liability, tariffs, and other matters, may impact our results of operations and liquidity.. Customers in the oil and gas industry account for a significant portion of our sales. Reduced expenditures by customers in this industry are likely to reduce demand for our products and services.. Customers related to the upstream, midstream and downstream oil and gas industry accounted for approximately 78% and 47% of our net sales in 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company has invested in R&D/products, plant expansion and personnel (sales, project management, PDC team) over the past several years to pursue the midstream (pipeline, fractionation, etc) and downstream (oil and gas refining, etc) markets and reduce our reliance on upstream oil & gas (land and offshore drilling). Our business is still sensitive to cyclical commodity oil and natural gas prices that impact product demand and prices.. Our products include complex systems for energy and industrial markets which are subject to operational and liability risks.. We are engaged in the manufacture and installation of complex power distribution and control systems for the energy and industrial markets. These systems are frequently complex and susceptible to unique engineering elements that are not tested in the actual operating environment until commissioned. As a result, we may incur unanticipated additional operating and warranty expenses that were not anticipated when the fixed-price contracts were estimated and executed resulting in reduced profit margins on such projects.. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, which may result in a loss of market share or decrease in net sales or profit margin.. Our products and services are provided in a highly competitive environment and we are subject to competition from a number of similarly sized or larger businesses which may have greater financial and other resources than are available to us. Factors that affect competition include timely delivery of products and services, reputation, manufacturing capabilities, price, performance and dependability. Any failure to adapt to a changing competitive environment may result in a loss of market share and a decrease in net sales and profit margins.. We often utilize fixed-price contracts which could adversely affect our financial results.. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our net sales under fixed-price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for such fixed-price contracts. The cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed-price contracts, may result in actual costs and gross profits for a project differing from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability and losses on projects. Depending upon the size of fixed-price contracts, variations from estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year.. 9. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profit.. A portion of our net sales is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting practice we use results in recognizing contract net sales and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract net sales, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Actual collection of contract amounts or change orders could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings in future periods. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant.. Inability to obtain performance bonding could prevent us from bidding on certain projects. A portion of the Company's growth is focused on power generation projects and the EPC firms building them. Those bids typically require a form of surety which could be a letter of credit or a performance bond. Inability to obtain adequate bonding capacity could hinder our growth in this market.. We may not be able to fully realize the net sales value reported in our backlog.. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts. Backlog develops as a result of new business which represents the net sales value of new project commitments received by us during a given period. Backlog consists of projects which have either (1) not yet been started or (2) are in progress and are not yet complete. In the latter case, the net sales value reported in backlog is the remaining value associated with work that has not yet been completed. From time to time, projects that were recorded as new business are cancelled or delayed. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total net sales included in our backlog. In addition to being unable to recover certain direct costs, we may also incur additional costs resulting from underutilized assets if projects are cancelled.. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could disrupt our operations or be adverse to our business.. Our continued success is dependent on the continuity of several key management, operating and technical personnel. The loss of these key employees could have a negative impact on our future growth and profitability.. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted by economic uncertainty and global recession.. The consequences of a prolonged recession could include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding commodity and capital markets. The lack of a sustained economic recovery could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position.. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could lead to a loss of net sales or profitability.. Our ability to provide high-quality products and services on a timely basis requires that we employ an adequate number of skilled personnel. Accordingly, our ability to increase our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel.. Natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions could harm our business and operations.. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations or those of our customers, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business.. We manufacture products and operate in the United Sates and Brazil.  Operations in the United States have been disrupted in the past due to hurricanes and significant weather conditions and similar events in areas where our facilities are located could negatively affect the Company. Extreme weather conditions could also result in disruption or delay of customer projects and production and delivery of materials and products in our supply chain. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, or a combination of these or other factors could damage or destroy our facilities negatively affecting our business and results of operations as well as causing us to incur significant expenses to repair or replace such facilities. We carry insurance to minimize our risk of loss; however, actual losses may exceed insurance limits. Additionally, the costs associated with a slowdown of operations caused by a disruption in the supply chain may not be covered.. We generate a significant portion of our net sales from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business outside of the United States.. Approximately 20% of our net sales in 2017 were generated from projects and business operations outside of the United States, primarily provided to the oil and gas drilling and marine industries in the following countries: Mexico, Canada, United Arab Emirates, Singapore and Brazil. This percentage was approximately 13% in 2016. The oil and gas industry operates in both remote and potentially politically unstable locations, and numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-United States operations. These risks and uncertainties include changes in political, economic and social environments, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, as well as United States laws affecting activities of United States companies abroad,. 10. including tax laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. In addition, the costs of providing our services can be adversely and/or unexpectedly impacted by the remoteness of the locations and other logistical factors.. The marketplace may not accept and utilize our newly developed products and services, the effect of which would prevent us from successfully commercializing our proposed products or services and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to market and commercialize our new products and services depends on the acceptance of such products and services by the industry.. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially and may continue to do so. Future announcements or disclosures concerning us or any of our competitors, our strategic initiatives, our sales and profitability, any quarterly variations in actual or anticipated operating results or comparable sales, any failure to meet analysts' expectations and sales of large blocks of our common stock, among other factors, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.. Joint Venture limited life risk.. The joint venture, BOMAY, was formed in 2006 in China. It was formed with a term of 12 years. The joint venture may be terminated earlier for valid business reasons including Force Majeure. In the event the joint venture is to be terminated, either party may acquire the other parties' interests and continue the operations of the joint venture. Additionally, the term of the joint venture may be extended upon agreement of all parties. In such case, the joint venture shall apply for the extension to the relevant Chinese authority six months before expiry of the venture. In March 2018, an agreement was approved by the BOMAY Board of Directors, extending the joint venture agreement beyond the 2018 expiration date pending approval by the Chinese government.. Risk related to our Chinese Joint Venture.. We maintain a significant investment in a joint venture with a Chinese energy company. We may encounter risks pertaining to a weakening Chinese economic environment. We may encounter unforeseen or unexpected operating, financial, political or cultural factors that could impact its business plans and the expected profitability from such investment. We will face risks if China loses normal trade relations with the United States and it may be adversely affected by the diplomatic and political relationships between the United States and China. We may also face additional risk with respect to the protection of our intellectual property in China. Changes in China's political and economic policies could adversely affect our investment and business opportunities in China.. Risk from Restricted U.S. Government Access to Audit Documents in China.. The audit of BOMAY for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was conducted in China by a Chinese audit firm not registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (\"PCAOB\") under the direction of the Company's independent auditor.  The Company's independent auditor has directed additional procedures to comply with auditing standards prescribed by the PCAOB.. Under the laws of the United States, auditors of public companies are to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB and to make all requested work papers available for the SEC and the PCAOB inspection. However, due to laws of the People's Republic of China applicable to auditors, the SEC and the PCAOB are currently unable to conduct such inspections on work papers prepared in China without the approval of the Chinese government authorities.. As a result, the SEC or PCAOB may be unable to conduct inspections of the BOMAY audit work papers.  The Company's stockholders may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections, and may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of portions of our financial statements.. Joint Venture Centralized Government Risks.. Since the centralized government of China controls most of the petroleum industry and related manufacturing through annual planning and budgets, the financial results realized by the Company's joint venture, BOMAY, will reflect the government's decisions on production levels for oil and gas equipment. The Company further understands that the value of BOMAY's assets, including inventory, may not be fully realized if demand for these products is reduced significantly because of economic policy decisions or other organizational changes in the Chinese petroleum industry.. Market Risk.. The markets in which we participate are capital intensive and cyclical in nature. The volatility in customer demand is greatly driven by the change in the price of oil and gas. These factors influence the release of new capital projects by our customers, which are traditionally awarded in competitive bid situations. Coordination of project start dates is matched to the customer requirements and projects may take a number of months to complete; schedules also may change during the course of any particular project.. Foreign Currency Transaction Risk.. The Company operates a subsidiary in Brazil and maintains equity method investments in its Chinese and Singapore joint ventures, BOMAY and MIEFE. The functional currencies of the Brazilian subsidiary and the joint ventures are the Brazilian Real,. 11. Chinese Yuan and Singapore Dollar, respectively. Investments are translated into United States Dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the end of each quarterly reporting period. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheets. There was no translation adjustment at December 31, 2016 and $0.40 million at December 31, 2017 due principally to the strengthening of the Chinese Yuan versus the United States Dollar.. Other than the aforementioned items, we do not believe we are exposed to significant foreign currency exchange risk because most of our net sales and purchases are denominated in United States Dollars.. Commodity Price Risk.. We are subject to commodity price risk from fluctuating market prices of certain raw materials. While such materials are typically available from numerous suppliers, commodity raw materials are subject to price fluctuations. We endeavor to recoup these price increases from our customers on an individual contract basis to avoid operating margin erosion. Although historically we have not entered into any contracts to hedge commodity risk, we may do so in the future. Commodity price changes can have a material impact on our prospective earnings and cash flows. Copper, steel and aluminum represent a significant element of our material cost. Significant increases in the prices of these materials could reduce our estimated operating margins if we are unable to recover such increases from our customers.. Interest Rate Risk.. Our interest rate sensitive items do not subject us to material risk exposures. Our senior secured term Note has a fixed interest rate of 11.50%."
