[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors could affect our future business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position, and could cause future results to differ materially from those expressed in any of the forward-looking statements contained in this report.. The Federal Reimbursement Rate for Gamma Knife Treatments Has Fluctuated. Congress enacted legislation in 2013 that significantly reduced the Medicare reimbursement rate for outpatient Gamma Knife treatment by setting it at the same amount paid for linear accelerator-based radiosurgery treatment. Prior to April 1, 2013, Medicare’s reimbursement rate for Gamma Knife treatment had been relatively stable. In April 2013, the Medicare reimbursement rate for Gamma Knife treatment was lowered from approximately $9,900 to $5,300 per treatment session. This sudden reduction in a rate that had historically been stable resulted in a significant decrease in the Company’s revenues from all of our revenue sharing and some of our fixed fee medical centers. The reimbursement rate was subsequently increased to approximately $5,600 in 2014. Effective January 1, 2015, CMS established a comprehensive Ambulatory Payment Classification (APC) for both Gamma Knife and LINAC one session cranial radiosurgery at a reimbursement rate of approximately $9,700. This represents an estimated increase of $4,100 per Medicare Gamma Knife treatment (exclusive of co-insurance and other adjustments) effective January 1, 2015 compared to the 2014 Medicare reimbursement rate. The 2016 reimbursement level was reduced by CMS to approximately $8,800 but increased to approximately $9,000 in 2017 and increased again to $9,100 in 2018. There can be no assurance that CMS reimbursement levels will be maintained at levels providing the Company an adequate return on its investment. Any future reductions in the reimbursement rate would adversely affect the Company’s revenues and financial results.. The average Medicare reimbursement rate trends from 2014 to 2018 are outlined below:. Average Medicare Reimbursement Rate Trends. 2014       2015       2016       2017       2018 $5,600       $9,700       $8,800       $9,000       $9,100. The Company’s Capital Investment at Each Site is Substantial. Each Gamma Knife, PBRT or IGRT device requires a substantial capital investment. In some cases, we contribute additional funds for capital costs and/or annual operating and equipment related costs such as marketing, maintenance, insurance and property taxes. Due to the structure of our contracts with medical centers, there can be no assurance that these costs will be fully recovered or that we will earn a satisfactory return on our investment.. 13. The Market for the Gamma Knife is Limited. There is a limited market for the Gamma Knife, and the market in the United States may be mature. The Company has begun operation at only nine (9) new Gamma Knife sites in the United States since 2011. Due to the substantial costs of acquiring a Gamma Knife unit, we must identify medical centers that possess neurosurgery and radiation oncology departments capable of performing a large number of Gamma Knife procedures. As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 118 operating Gamma Knife units in the United States, of which sixteen (16) units were owned by the Company. As of December 31, 2017, the Company has one idle Gamma Knife unit with a cumulative net book value of $729,000. There are currently no plans to place into service or trade this unit in during 2018. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in placing these idle units or additional units at any sites in the future. The Company’s existing contracts with its customers are fixed in length and there can be no assurance that the customers will wish to extend the contract beyond the end of the term.. The Company Has a High Level of Debt. The Company’s business is capital intensive. The Company finances its Gamma Knife units through its GKF subsidiary. The amounts financed through GKF have been generally non-recourse to ASHS. The Company financed its first proton therapy unit through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Orlando, and guaranteed the lease financing. The Company’s combined long-term debt and capital leases totaled $23,143,000 as of December 31, 2017 and is collateralized by its Gamma Knife, MEVION S250 and other assets, including accounts receivable and future proceeds from any contract between the Company and any end user of the financed equipment. This high level of debt may adversely affect the Company’s ability to secure additional credit in the future, and as a result may affect operations and profitability. If default on debt occurs in the future, the Company’s creditors would have the ability to accelerate the defaulted loan, to seize the Gamma Knife or MEVION S250 units or other equipment with respect to which default has occurred, and to apply any collateral they may have at the time to cure the default.. A Small Number of Customers Account for a Major Portion of our Revenues. A limited number of customers have historically accounted for a substantial portion of the Company’s total revenue, and the Company expects such customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. For example, in 2017, five (5) customers in total accounted for more than 50% of the Company’s revenue. The loss of a significant customer or a significant decline in the business from the Company’s largest customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.. The Market for the Company’s Services is Competitive. The Company estimates that there are two other companies that actively provide alternative, non-conventional Gamma Knife financing to potential customers. We believe there are no competitor companies that currently have more than three (3) Gamma Knife units in operation. The Company’s relationship with Elekta, the manufacturer of the Leksell Gamma Knife unit, is non-exclusive, and in the past the Company has lost sales to customers that chose to purchase a Gamma Knife unit directly from Elekta. The Company also has several competitors in the financing of proton therapy projects. The Company’s business model differs from its competitors, but there can be no assurances that the Company will not lose placements to its competitors. In addition, the Company may continue to lose future sales to customers purchasing equipment directly from manufacturers. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully compete against others in placing future units.. There are Alternatives to the Gamma Knife. Other radiosurgery devices and conventional neurosurgery compete against the Gamma Knife. Each of the medical centers targeted by the Company could decide to acquire another radiosurgery device instead of a Gamma Knife. In addition, neurosurgeons who are responsible for referring patients for Gamma Knife surgery may not be willing to make such referrals for various reasons, instead opting for invasive surgery. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to secure a sufficient number of future sites or Gamma Knife procedures to sustain its profitability and growth.. International Operations. The Company installed a Gamma Knife in Lima, Peru in 2017. International operations can be subject to exchange rate volatility which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. In addition, international operations can be subject to legal and regulatory uncertainty and political and economic instability, which could result in problems asserting property or contractual rights, potential tariffs, increased compliance costs, increased regulatory scrutiny, potential adverse tax consequences, the inability to repatriate funds to the United States, and the Company’s inability to operate in those locations.. 14. New Technology and Products Could Result in Equipment Obsolescence. There is constant change and innovation in the market for highly sophisticated medical equipment. New and improved medical equipment can be introduced that could make the Gamma Knife technology obsolete and that would make it uneconomical to operate. During 2000, Elekta introduced an upgraded Gamma Knife which cost approximately $3.6 million plus applicable tax and duties. This upgrade includes an Automatic Positioning System\231 (“APS”), and therefore involved less health care provider intervention. In early 2005, Elekta introduced a new upgrade, the Gamma Knife Model 4C (“Model 4C”). The cost to upgrade existing units to the Model 4C with APS was approximately $200,000 to $1,000,000, depending on the current Gamma Knife configuration. In 2006 Elekta introduced a new model of the Gamma Knife, the Perfexion, which costs approximately $4.5 million plus applicable taxes and duties. The Perfexion can perform procedures faster than previous Gamma Knife models and it involves less health care personnel intervention. In 2015, Elekta introduced the Leksell Gamma Knife Icon TM. The Perfexion is upgradeable to the Icon platforms which has enhanced imaging capabilities allowing for treatment without a head frame and the treatment of larger tumors. Existing model 4Cs of the Gamma Knife are not upgradeable to the Perfexion model. As of March 1, 2018, 14 of the Company’s Gamma Knife units are Perfexion models; of the Company’s remaining Gamma Knife units, two (2) are Model 4Cs with APS and one is upgradeable to a more advanced Model 4C unit. The failure to acquire or use new technology and products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In addition, there are constant advances made in radiation therapy equipment. The Company purchased IGRT and CT Simulator systems in 2006 with a list price of approximately $8,300,000. As in the Gamma Knife business, new and improved IGRT equipment can be introduced that could make the existing technology obsolete and that would make it uneconomical to operate.. The Company Has Invested in a Proton Beam Business. We have committed a substantial amount of our financial resources to next-generation proton beam technology. The first MEVION S250 system began treating patients in December 2013. The Company’s first MEVION S250 system began treating patients in April 2016. The Company has committed to purchase two (2) additional MEVION S250 systems and has already made deposits of $2,000,000 towards this commitment. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance the two additional systems.. The Trading Volume of Our Common Stock is Low. Although our common stock is listed on the NYSE MKT, our common stock has historically experienced low trading volume. Reported average daily trading volume in our common stock for the three-month period ended December 31, 2017 was approximately 16,000 shares. There is no reason to think that a more significant active trading market in our common stock will develop in the future. Limited trading volume subjects our common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares in a quantity or at a price that is attractive to you."
