[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. There are many factors that may affect our business and results of operations. Additional discussion regarding factors that may affect our businesses and operating results is included elsewhere in this Report.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Supplier defaults may have a negative effect on our operating results.. When we enter into fixed-price sales contracts with customers, we typically enter into fixed-price purchase contracts with suppliers. Depending on changes in the market prices of propane compared to the prices secured in our contracts with suppliers of propane, a default of one or more of our suppliers under such contracts could cause us to purchase propane at higher prices, which would have a negative impact on our operating results.. We are dependent on our principal propane suppliers, which increases the risks from an interruption in supply and transportation.. During Fiscal 2017, AmeriGas Propane purchased over 88% of its propane needs from twenty suppliers.  If supplies from these sources were interrupted, the cost of procuring replacement supplies and transporting those supplies from alternative locations might be materially higher and, at least on a short-term basis, our earnings could be affected.  Additionally, in certain geographical areas, a single supplier may provide more than 50% of our propane requirements. Disruptions in supply in these areas could also have an adverse impact on our earnings.. Our ability to grow will be adversely affected if we are not successful in making acquisitions or integrating the acquisitions we have made.. We have historically expanded our propane business through acquisitions. We regularly consider and evaluate opportunities for growth through the acquisition of local, regional and national propane distributors. We may choose to finance future acquisitions with debt, equity, cash or a combination of the three. We can give no assurances that we will find attractive acquisition candidates in the future, that we will be able to acquire such candidates on economically acceptable terms, that we will be able to finance acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, that any acquisitions will not be dilutive to earnings and distributions or that any additional debt incurred to finance an acquisition will not affect our ability to make distributions.. To the extent we are successful in making acquisitions, such acquisitions involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the assumption of material liabilities, environmental liabilities, the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations, difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees and difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices and internal controls, as well as in the assimilation of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations. The failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance.. Our operations are subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing, transporting and otherwise providing combustible liquids such as propane for use by consumers. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, and severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment arising from explosions and other catastrophic events, including acts of terrorism. As a result, we are often a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Additionally, environmental contamination could result in future legal proceedings.  There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to pending and future claims or that such levels of insurance would be available in the future at economical prices.. 9. Table of Contents. Our operations, capital expenditures and financial results may be affected by regulatory changes and/or market responses to global climate change.. Increased regulation of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, such as propane and methane, could impose significant additional costs on us, our suppliers and our customers.  Some states have adopted laws and regulations regulating the emission of GHGs for some industry sectors.  For example, the California Environmental Protection Agency established a Cap & Trade program that requires certain covered entities, including propane companies, to purchase allowances to compensate for the GHG emissions created by their business operations.  In September 2009, the EPA issued a final rule establishing a system for mandatory reporting of GHG emissions.  However, there is currently no federal or regional legislation mandating the reduction of GHG emissions in the United States. Although Congress has not enacted federal climate change legislation, the EPA adopted and implemented regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and certain large stationary sources, and to require reporting of GHG emissions by certain regulated facilities on an annual basis. The Partnership's facilities are not currently subject to these regulations, but the potential increased costs of regulatory compliance and mandatory reporting by our customers and suppliers could have an effect on our operations or financial condition.. The adoption of additional federal or state climate change legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could also require the Partnership or its suppliers to incur increased capital and operating costs, with resulting impact on product price and demand. The impact of new legislation and regulations will depend on a number of factors, including (i) which industry sectors would be impacted, (ii) the timing of required compliance, (iii) the overall GHG emissions cap level, (iv) the allocation of emission allowances to specific sources, and (v) the costs and opportunities associated with compliance. At this time, we cannot predict the effect that climate change regulation may have on our business, financial condition or operations in the future.. If we are unable to protect our information technology systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security resulting from cyber security attacks or other events, or we encounter other unforeseen difficulties in the operation of our information technology systems, our operations could be disrupted, our business and reputation may suffer, and our internal controls could be adversely affected.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on information technology systems, including the Internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business processes and activities and to store sensitive data, including (i) intellectual property, (ii) our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers and business partners, (iii) personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, and (iv) data with respect to invoicing and the collection of payments, accounting, procurement, and supply chain activities.  In addition, we rely on our information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements.  Despite our security measures, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, sabotage, or other disruptions.  A loss of our information technology systems, or temporary interruptions in the operation of our information technology systems, misappropriation of data, and breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and reputation.. Moreover, the efficient execution of our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal systems, including an information technology system that supports our Order-to-Cash business processes.  Any significant failure or malfunction of this information technology system may result in disruptions of our operations.  Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we encounter unforeseen problems with respect to the operation of this system.  While we have purchased cyber security insurance, there are no assurances that the coverage would be adequate in relation to any incurred losses.. INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC RISKS. Decreases in the demand for propane because of warmer-than-normal heating season weather or unfavorable weather may adversely affect our results of operations.. Because many of our customers rely on propane as a heating fuel, our results of operations are adversely affected by warmer-than-normal heating season weather. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for propane for both heating and agricultural purposes. Accordingly, the volume of propane sold is at its highest during the peak heating season of October through March and is directly affected by the severity of the winter weather. For example, historically approximately 60% to 70% of our annual retail propane volumes are sold during these months. There can be no assurance that normal winter weather in our service territories will occur in the future.. The agricultural demand for propane is also affected by weather, as dry or warm weather during the harvest season may reduce the demand for propane. Our ACE operations experience higher volumes in the spring and summer, mainly due to the grilling season. Sustained periods of unfavorable weather conditions, including periods of significant rainfall, can negatively affect our ACE revenues. Unfavorable weather conditions may also cause a reduction in the purchase and use of grills and other propane. 10. Table of Contents. appliances, which could reduce the demand for our ACE cylinders.. Changes in commodity market prices may have a negative effect on our liquidity.. Depending on the terms of our contracts with suppliers as well as our use of financial instruments to reduce volatility in the cost of propane, changes in the market price of propane can create margin payment obligations for us and expose us to an increased liquidity risk.  In addition, increased demand for domestically produced propane overseas may, depending on production volumes in the United States, result in higher domestic propane prices and expose us to additional liquidity risks.. Our potential to increase revenues may be affected by the decline of the retail propane industry and our ability to retain and grow our customer base.. The retail propane industry has been declining over the past several years, with no or modest growth in total demand foreseen in the next several years. Accordingly, we expect that year-to-year industry volumes will be principally affected by weather patterns. Therefore, our ability to grow within the industry is dependent on our ability to acquire other retail distributors and to achieve internal growth, which includes expansion of our ACE and National Accounts programs, as well as the success of our sales and marketing programs designed to attract and retain customers. Any failure to retain and grow our customer base would have an adverse effect on our results.. The risk of terrorism may adversely affect the economy and the price and availability of propane.. Terrorist attacks may adversely impact the price and availability of propane, as well as our results of operations, our ability to raise capital, and our future growth. The impact that the foregoing may have on our industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil or natural gas supplies and markets (the sources of propane), cause price volatility in the cost of propane, and our infrastructure facilities could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist activity may also hinder our ability to transport propane if our means of supply transportation, such as rail or pipeline, become damaged as a result of an attack. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism could also affect our ability to raise capital. We have opted to purchase insurance coverage for terrorist acts within our property and casualty insurance programs, but we can give no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to fully compensate us for any losses to our business or property resulting from terrorist acts.. Our operations may be adversely affected by competition from other energy sources.. Propane competes with other sources of energy, some of which are less costly on an equivalent energy basis. In addition, we cannot predict the effect that the development of alternative energy sources might have on our operations. We compete for customers against suppliers of electricity, fuel oil and natural gas.. Electricity is a major competitor of propane but is generally more expensive than propane on a Btu equivalent basis for space heating, water heating, and cooking.  Notwithstanding cost, the convenience and efficiency of electricity make it an attractive energy source for consumers and developers of new homes.  Fuel oil is also a major competitor of propane but is currently more expensive than propane as well as a less environmentally attractive energy source.  Historically, however, fuel oil is less expensive than propane.  Furnaces and appliances that burn propane will not operate on fuel oil and vice versa, and, therefore, a conversion from one fuel to the other requires the installation of new equipment. Our customers generally have an incentive to switch to fuel oil only if fuel oil becomes significantly less expensive than propane. Except for certain industrial and commercial applications, propane is generally not competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist because natural gas is generally a significantly less expensive source of energy than propane.  As long as natural gas remains a less expensive energy source than propane, our business will lose customers in each region into which natural gas distribution systems are expanded. The gradual expansion of the nation's natural gas distribution systems has resulted, and may continue to result, in the availability of natural gas in some areas that previously depended upon propane.. Our profitability is subject to propane pricing and inventory risk.. The retail propane business is a \"margin-based\" business in which gross profits are dependent upon the excess of the sales price over the propane supply costs. Propane is a commodity, and, as such, its unit price is subject to volatile fluctuations in response to changes in supply or other market conditions. We have no control over these market conditions. Consequently, the unit price of the propane that we and other marketers purchase can change rapidly over a short period of time. Most of our propane product supply contracts permit suppliers to charge posted prices at the time of delivery or the current prices established at major storage points such as Mont Belvieu, Texas or Conway, Kansas. Because our profitability is sensitive to changes in wholesale propane supply costs, it will be adversely affected if we cannot pass on increases in the cost of propane to our customers.  Due to competitive. 11. Table of Contents. pricing in the industry, we may not fully be able to pass on product cost increases to our customers when product costs rise, or when our competitors do not raise their product prices in a timely manner.  Finally, market volatility may cause us to sell inventory at less than the price we purchased it, which would adversely affect our operating results.. High propane prices can lead to customer conservation and attrition, resulting in reduced demand for our product.. Prices for propane are subject to volatile fluctuations in response to changes in supply and other market conditions. During periods of high propane costs our prices generally increase. High prices can lead to customer conservation and attrition, resulting in reduced demand for our product.. Our cash flow and net income will decrease if we are required to incur additional costs to comply with new governmental safety, health, transportation, and environmental regulations.. We are subject to various federal, state and local safety, health, transportation, and environmental laws and regulations governing the storage, distribution and transportation of propane. We have implemented safety and environmental programs and policies designed to avoid potential liability and costs under applicable laws. It is possible, however, that we will incur increased costs as a result of complying with new safety, health, transportation and environmental regulations and such costs will reduce our net income.  It is also possible that material environmental liabilities will be incurred, including those relating to claims for damages to property and persons.. Volatility in credit and capital markets may restrict our ability to grow, increase the likelihood of defaults by our customers and counterparties and adversely affect our operating results.. The volatility in credit and capital markets may create additional risks to our business in the future. We are exposed to financial market risk (including refinancing risk) resulting from, among other things, changes in interest rates and conditions in the credit and capital markets. Developments in the credit markets during the past few years increase our possible exposure to the liquidity, default and credit risks of our suppliers and vendors, counterparties associated with derivative financial instruments and our customers. Although we believe that current financial market conditions, if they were to continue for the foreseeable future, would not have a significant impact on our ability to fund our existing operations, such market conditions could restrict our ability to grow through acquisitions, limit the scope of major capital projects if access to credit and capital markets is limited, or adversely affect our operating results.. RISKS INHERENT IN AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON UNITS. Cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate with our performance.. Although we distribute all of our available cash each quarter, the amount of cash that we generate each quarter fluctuates. As a result, we cannot guarantee that we will pay the current regular quarterly distribution each quarter. Available cash generally means, with respect to any fiscal quarter, all cash on hand at the end of each quarter, plus all additional cash on hand as of the date of the determination of available cash resulting from borrowings after the end of the quarter, less the amount of reserves established to provide for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. The actual amount of cash that is available to be distributed each quarter will depend upon numerous factors, including:. • our cash flow generated by operations;. • the weather in our areas of operation;. • our borrowing capacity under our bank credit facilities;. • required principal and interest payments on our debt;. • fluctuations in our working capital;. • our cost of acquisitions (including related debt service payments);. • restrictions contained in our debt instruments;. • our capital expenditures;. • our issuances of debt and equity securities;. • reserves made by our General Partner in its discretion;. • prevailing economic and industry conditions; and. • financial, business and other factors, a number of which are beyond our control.. As is the case for most master limited partnerships, our Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership dated as of July 27, 2009, as amended as of March 13, 2012 and as of July 27, 2015 (the \"Partnership Agreement\") requires that distributions to our partners upon our liquidation (or to a partner upon certain redemptions) be made in accordance with positive. 12. Table of Contents. capital account balances in order to comply with Treasury regulations (\"Treasury Regulations\") promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), as to our allocations of tax items.  Although our Partnership Agreement grants our General Partner broad discretion to use special allocations, capital account adjustments, and other corrective measures to prevent this capital account liquidation requirement from causing economic distortions, it is not possible to confirm in all instances that such economic distortions will not result from this capital account liquidation requirement.. Our General Partner has broad discretion to determine the amount of \"available cash\" for distribution to holders of our equity securities through the establishment and maintenance of cash reserves, thereby potentially lessening and limiting the amount of \"available cash\" eligible for distribution.. Our General Partner determines the timing and amount of our distributions and has broad discretion in determining the amount of funds that will be recognized as \"available cash.\" Part of this discretion comes from the ability of our General Partner to establish reserves. Decisions as to amounts to be reserved have a direct impact on the amount of available cash for distributions because reserves are taken into account in computing available cash. Each fiscal quarter, our General Partner may, in its reasonable discretion, determine the amounts to be reserved, subject to restrictions on the purposes of the reserves. Reserves may be made, increased or decreased for any proper purpose, including, but not limited to, reserves:. • to comply with terms of any of our agreements or obligations, including the establishment of reserves to fund the future payment of interest and principal on our debt securities;. • to provide for level distributions of cash notwithstanding the seasonality of our business; and. • to provide for future capital expenditures and other payments deemed by our General Partner to be necessary or advisable.. The decision by our General Partner to establish reserves may limit the amount of cash available for distribution to holders of our equity securities. Holders of our equity securities will not receive payments unless we are able to first satisfy our own obligations and the establishment of any reserves.. We are a holding company and have no material operations or assets.  Accordingly, unitholders will receive distributions only if we receive distributions from our Operating Partnership after it meets its own financial obligations.. We are a holding company for our subsidiaries, with no material operations and only limited assets.  We are dependent on cash distributions from the Operating Partnership to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Unitholders will not receive cash distributions unless the Operating Partnership is able to make distributions to us after it first satisfies its obligations under the terms of its own borrowing arrangements and reserves any necessary amounts to meet its own financial obligations.  The Operating Partnership is required to distribute all of its available cash each quarter, less the amount of cash reserves that our General Partner determines are necessary or appropriate in its reasonable discretion to provide for the proper conduct of our Operating Partnership's business, to enable it to make distributions to us so that we can make timely distributions to our limited partners and the General Partner under our Partnership Agreement during the next four quarters, or to comply with applicable law or any of our Operating Partnership's debt or other agreements.. The agreements governing certain of the Operating Partnership's debt obligations require the Operating Partnership to include in its cash reserves amounts for future required payments.  This limits the amount of available cash the Operating Partnership may distribute to us each quarter.. Holders of Common Units may experience dilution of their interests.. We may issue an unlimited number of additional limited partner interests and other equity securities, including senior equity securities, for such consideration and on such terms and conditions as shall be established by our General Partner in its sole discretion, without the approval of any unitholders. We also may issue an unlimited number of partnership interests junior to the Common Units without a unitholder vote. When we issue additional equity securities, a unitholder's proportionate partnership interest will decrease and the amount of cash distributed on each unit and the market price of the Common Units could decrease. Issuance of additional Common Units will also diminish the relative limited voting power of each previously outstanding unit. Please read \"Holders of Common Units have limited voting rights, management and control of us\" below. The ultimate effect of any such issuance may be to dilute the interests of holders of units in AmeriGas Partners and to make it more difficult for a person or group to remove our General Partner or otherwise change our management.. The market price of the Common Units may be adversely affected by various change of management provisions.. Our Partnership Agreement contains certain provisions that are intended to discourage a person or group from attempting to remove our General Partner as general partner or otherwise change the management of AmeriGas Partners. If any person or group other. 13. Table of Contents. than the General Partner or its affiliates acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the Common Units, such person or group will lose its voting rights with respect to all of its Common Units. The effect of these provisions and the change of control provisions in our debt instruments may be to diminish the price at which the Common Units will trade under certain circumstances.. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness and other financial obligations may reduce our operating flexibility.. The various agreements governing our and the Operating Partnership's indebtedness and other financing transactions restrict quarterly distributions. These agreements contain various negative and affirmative covenants applicable to us and the Operating Partnership and some of these agreements require us and the Operating Partnership to maintain specified financial ratios. If we or the Operating Partnership violate any of these covenants or requirements, a default may result and distributions would be limited. These covenants limit our and the Operating Partnership's ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • engage in transactions with affiliates;. • create or incur liens;. • sell assets;. • make restricted payments, loans and investments;. • enter into business combinations and asset sale transactions; and. • engage in other lines of business.. Holders of Common Units have limited voting rights, management and control of us.. Our General Partner manages and operates AmeriGas Partners. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of outstanding Common Units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Holders of Common Units have no right to elect the general partner or its directors, and our General Partner generally may not be removed except pursuant to the vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the outstanding units. In addition, removal of the general partner may result in a default under our debt instruments and loan agreements. As a result, holders of Common Units have limited say in matters affecting our operations and others may find it difficult to attempt to gain control or influence our activities.. Holders of Common Units may be required to sell their Common Units against their will.. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates hold 80% or more of the issued and outstanding Common Units, our General Partner will have the right (but not the obligation) to purchase all, but not less than all, of the remaining Common Units held by nonaffiliates at certain specified prices pursuant to the Partnership Agreement. Accordingly, under certain circumstances holders of Common Units may be required to sell their Common Units against their will and the price that they receive for those securities may be less than they would like to receive. They may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their Common Units.. Holders of Common Units may not have limited liability in certain circumstances and may be liable for the return of distributions that cause our liabilities to exceed our assets.. The limitations on the liability of holders of Common Units for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. If it were determined that AmeriGas Partners had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute, or that the right or the exercise of the right by the holders of Common Units as a group to remove or replace our General Partner, to make certain amendments to our Partnership Agreement or to take other action pursuant to that Partnership Agreement constituted participation in the \"control\" of the business of AmeriGas Partners, then a holder of Common Units could be held liable under certain circumstances for our obligations to the same extent as our General Partner. We are not obligated to inform holders of Common Units about whether we are in compliance with the limited partnership statutes of any states.. Holders of Common Units may also have to repay AmeriGas Partners amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Delaware law we may not make a distribution to holders of Common Units if the distribution causes our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount for three years from the distribution date.. 14. Table of Contents. Our General Partner has conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary responsibilities, which may permit our General Partner to favor its own interest to the detriment of holders of Common Units.. Conflicts of interest can arise as a result of the relationships between AmeriGas Partners, on the one hand, and the General Partner and its affiliates, on the other. The directors and officers of the General Partner have fiduciary duties to manage the General Partner in a manner beneficial to the General Partner's sole shareholder, AmeriGas, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of UGI Corporation. At the same time, the General Partner has fiduciary duties to manage AmeriGas Partners in a manner beneficial to both it and the unitholders. The duties of our General Partner to AmeriGas Partners and the unitholders, therefore, may come into conflict with the duties of the directors and officers of our General Partner to its sole shareholder, AmeriGas, Inc.. Such conflicts of interest might arise in the following situations, among others:. • Decisions of our General Partner with respect to the amount and timing of cash expenditures, borrowings, and issuances of additional units and reserves in any quarter affect whether and the extent to which there is sufficient available cash from operating surplus to make quarterly distributions in a given quarter. In addition, actions by our General Partner may have the effect of enabling the General Partner to receive distributions that exceed 2% of total distributions.. • AmeriGas Partners does not have any employees and relies solely on employees of the General Partner and its affiliates.. • Under the terms of the Partnership Agreement, we reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates for costs incurred in managing and operating AmeriGas Partners, including costs incurred in rendering corporate staff and support services to us.. • Any agreements between us and our General Partner and its affiliates do not grant to the holders of Common Units, separate and apart from AmeriGas Partners, the right to enforce the obligations of our General Partner and such affiliates in our favor. Therefore, the General Partner, in its capacity as the general partner of AmeriGas Partners, is primarily responsible for enforcing such obligations.. • Under the terms of the Partnership Agreement, our General Partner is not restricted from causing us to pay the General Partner or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of such entities on behalf of AmeriGas Partners. Neither the Partnership Agreement nor any of the other agreements, contracts and arrangements between us, on the one hand, and the General Partner and its affiliates, on the other, are or will be the result of arm's-length negotiations.. • Our General Partner may exercise its right to call for and purchase units as provided in the Partnership Agreement or assign such right to one of its affiliates or to us.. Our Partnership Agreement expressly permits our General Partner to resolve conflicts of interest between itself or its affiliates, on the one hand, and us or the unitholders, on the other, and to consider, in resolving such conflicts of interest, the interests of other parties in addition to the interests of the unitholders. In addition, the Partnership Agreement provides that a purchaser of Common Units is deemed to have consented to certain conflicts of interest and actions of our General Partner and its affiliates that might otherwise be prohibited and to have agreed that such conflicts of interest and actions do not constitute a breach by the General Partner of any duty stated or implied by law or equity. The General Partner is not in breach of its obligations under the Partnership Agreement or its duties to us or the unitholders if the resolution of such conflict is fair and reasonable to us. The latitude given in the Partnership Agreement to the General Partner in resolving conflicts of interest may significantly limit the ability of a unitholder to challenge what might otherwise be a breach of fiduciary duty.. Our Partnership Agreement expressly limits the liability of our General Partner by providing that the General Partner, its affiliates and its officers and directors are not liable for monetary damages to us, the limited partners or assignees for errors of judgment or for any actual omissions if the General Partner and other persons acted in good faith. In addition, we are required to indemnify our General Partner, its affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by law, against liabilities, costs and expenses incurred by our General Partner or such other persons, if the General Partner or such persons acted in good faith and in a manner they reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, our best interests and, with respect to any criminal proceedings, had no reasonable cause to believe the conduct was unlawful.. Our General Partner may voluntarily withdraw or sell its general partner interest.. Our General Partner may withdraw as the general partner of AmeriGas Partners and the Operating Partnership without the approval of our unitholders. Our General Partner may also sell its general partner interest in AmeriGas Partners and the Operating Partnership. 15. Table of Contents. without the approval of our unitholders. Any such withdrawal or sale could have a material adverse effect on us and could substantially change the management and resolutions of conflicts of interest, as described above.. Our substantial debt could impair our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to holders of Common Units and operate our business.. Our substantial debt and our ability to incur significant additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions under AmeriGas OLP's bank credit agreement, the outstanding Heritage Operating, L.P.  note agreements and the indentures governing our outstanding notes of the master limited partnership could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to holders of our Common Units and could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all.. Our partnership agreement limits our General Partner's fiduciary duties of care to unitholders and restricts remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duties.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards of care to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement waives or limits, to the extent permitted by law, any standard of care and duty imposed under state law to act in accordance with the provisions of our partnership agreement so long as such action is reasonably believed by our General Partner to be in, or not inconsistent with, our best interest. Accordingly, you may not be entitled to the benefits of certain fiduciary duties imposed by statute or otherwise that would ordinarily apply to directors and senior officers of publicly traded corporations.. TAX RISKS. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation, then our cash available for distribution to holders of Common Units would be substantially reduced.. The availability to a common unitholder of the federal income tax benefits of an investment in the Common Units depends, in large part, on our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. No ruling from the IRS as to this status has been or is expected to be requested.. If we were classified as a corporation for federal income tax purposes (including, but not limited to, due to a change in our business or a change in current law), we would be required to pay tax on our income at corporate tax rates (currently a maximum 35% federal rate, in addition to state and local income taxes at varying rates), and distributions received by the Common Unitholders would generally be taxed a second time as corporate distributions. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to the Common Unitholders would be substantially reduced. Treatment of us as a corporation would cause a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the Common Unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the Common Units.. Our Partnership Agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state, or local income tax purposes, our Partnership distribution levels will change.  These changes would include a decrease in the current regular quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels to reflect the impact of this law on us.  Any such reductions could increase our General Partner's percentage of cash distributions and decrease our limited partners' percentage of cash distributions.. In addition, the IRS, on May 5, 2015, issued proposed regulations concerning which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code. We do not believe the proposed regulations affect our ability to qualify as a publicly traded partnership. However, finalized regulations could modify the amount of our gross income that we are able to treat as qualifying income for the purposes of the qualifying income requirement.. If federal or state tax treatment of partnerships changes to impose entity-level taxation, the amount of cash available to us for distributions may be lower and distribution levels may have to be decreased.. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity-level taxation.  For example, from time to time members of Congress have considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would have affected certain publicly traded partnerships. Specifically, federal income tax legislation has been considered that would have eliminated partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded partnerships and recharacterized certain types of income received from partnerships. Similarly, several states currently impose entity-level taxes. 16. Table of Contents. on partnerships, including us. If any additional states were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, our cash available for distribution would be reduced. We are unable to predict whether any such changes in state entity-level taxes will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our Common Units.. Holders of Common Units will likely be subject to state, local and other taxes in states where holders of Common Units live or as a result of an investment in the Common Units.. In addition to United States federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which the unitholder resides or in which we do business or own property. A unitholder will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all applicable United States federal, state and local tax returns.. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions that we take may adversely affect the market for Common Units and the costs of any contest will be borne directly or indirectly by the unitholders and our General Partner.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the classification of any of the revenue from our propane operations as \"qualifying income\" under Section 7704 of the Code, or any other matter affecting us. Accordingly, the IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions expressed herein or the positions taken by us. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings in an effort to sustain some or all of such conclusions or the positions taken by us. A court may not concur with some or all of our positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for the Common Units and the prices at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne directly or indirectly by the unitholders and our General Partner.. Holders of Common Units may be required to pay taxes on their allocable share of our taxable income even if they do not receive any cash distributions.. A unitholder will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income, even if the unitholder receives no cash distributions from us. We cannot guarantee that a unitholder will receive cash distributions equal to the unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income or even the tax liability to the unitholder resulting from that income.. Ownership of Common Units may have adverse tax consequences for tax-exempt organizations and certain other investors.. Investment in Common Units by certain tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies and foreign persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our taxable income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and thus will be taxable to the unitholder. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and foreign persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Prospective unitholders who are tax-exempt organizations or foreign persons should consult their tax advisors before investing in Common Units.. There are limits on the deductibility of losses that may adversely affect holders of Common Units.. In the case of taxpayers subject to the passive loss rules (generally, individuals, closely-held corporations and regulated investment companies), any losses generated by us will only be available to offset our future income and cannot be used to offset income from other activities, including other passive activities or investments. Unused losses may be deducted when the unitholder disposes of the unitholder's entire investment in us in a fully taxable transaction with an unrelated party. A unitholder's share of our net passive income may be offset by unused losses from us carried over from prior years, but not by losses from other passive activities, including losses from other publicly traded partnerships.. 17. Table of Contents. Tax gain or loss on disposition of Common Units could be different than expected.. A unitholder who sells Common Units will recognize the gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized, including the unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, and the unitholder's adjusted tax basis in the Common Units. Prior distributions in excess of cumulative net taxable income allocated for a Common Unit which decreased a unitholder's tax basis in that unit will, in effect, become taxable income if the Common Unit is sold at a price greater than the unitholder's tax basis in that Common Unit, even if the price is less than the unit's original cost. A portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. Furthermore, should the IRS successfully contest some conventions used by us, a unitholder could recognize more gain on the sale of Common Units than would be the case under those conventions, without the benefit of decreased income in prior years.. The reporting of partnership tax information is complicated and subject to audits.. We will furnish each unitholder with a Schedule K-1 that sets forth the unitholder's share of our income, gains, losses and deductions. In preparing these schedules, we will use various accounting and reporting conventions and adopt various depreciation and amortization methods. We cannot guarantee that these schedules will yield a result that conforms to statutory or regulatory requirements or to administrative pronouncements of the IRS. Further, our tax return may be audited, which could result in an audit of a unitholder's individual tax return and increased liabilities for taxes because of adjustments resulting from the audit. The rights of a unitholder owning less than a 1% profits interest in us to participate in the income tax audit process are very limited. Further, any adjustments in our tax returns will lead to adjustments in the unitholders' tax returns and may lead to audits of unitholders' tax returns and adjustments of items unrelated to us. Each unitholder would bear the cost of any expenses incurred in connection with an examination of the unitholder's personal tax return.. There is a possibility of loss of tax benefits relating to nonconformity of Common Units and nonconforming depreciation conventions.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of Common Units, uniformity of the tax characteristics of the Common Units to a purchaser of Common Units of the same class must be maintained. To maintain uniformity and for other reasons, we have adopted certain depreciation and amortization conventions which we believe conform to Treasury Regulations under Section 743(b) of the Code. A successful challenge to those conventions by the IRS could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to a purchaser of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Common Units.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss, and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred.  The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders.. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred.  The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method.  Recently, however, the U.S. Treasury Department issued final regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the final regulations do not specifically authorize the use of all aspects of the proration method we have adopted.  If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. Holders of Common Units may have negative tax consequences if we default on our debt or sell assets.. If we default on any of our debt, the lenders will have the right to sue us for non-payment. This could cause an investment loss and negative tax consequences for unitholders through the realization of taxable income by unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. Likewise, if we were to dispose of assets and realize a taxable gain while there is substantial debt outstanding and proceeds of the sale were applied to the debt, our unitholders could have increased taxable income without a corresponding cash distribution.. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes.. We will be considered to have technically terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within any twelve-month period. Our termination would, among. 18. Table of Contents. other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing more than one tax return (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his or her taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but, instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. However, under an IRS relief program, a publicly traded partnership that technically terminates may be allowed to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year, notwithstanding that it has more than one partnership tax year.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us. We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our General Partner and our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so under all circumstances. If we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced."
