[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully read the following risk factors in connection with evaluating us and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business or our consolidated operating results, financial condition or cash flows, which, in turn, could cause the price of our common stock to decline. The risk factors described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Factors we currently do not know, factors that we currently consider immaterial or factors that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions, may also materially adversely affect our business or our consolidated operating results, financial condition or cash flows. The risk factors described below qualify all forward-looking statements we make, including forward-looking statements within this section entitled \"Risk Factors.\". To develop and prioritize the following risk factors, we review risks to our business that are informed by our formal Enterprise Risk Management program, industry trends, the external market and financial environment as well as dialogue with leaders throughout our organization. Our risk factor descriptions are intended to convey our assessment of each applicable. 7. risk and such assessments are integrated into our strategic and operational planning.. Risk Factors that May Affect the Demand for Our Services. Economic downturns and slow recoveries could result in less demand from clients and pricing pressure that could negatively impact our financial condition.. Demand for staffing services is sensitive to changes in economic activity. As economic activity slows, hospitals and other healthcare entities typically experience decreased attrition and reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees, which results in decreased demand for many of our service offerings. In times of economic downturn and high unemployment rates, permanent full-time and part-time healthcare facility staff are generally inclined to work more hours and overtime, resulting in fewer available vacancies and less demand for our services. Fewer placement opportunities for our temporary clinicians and physicians also impairs our ability to recruit and place them both on a temporary and permanent basis.. In addition, many healthcare facilities utilize temporary healthcare professionals to accommodate an increase in hospital admissions. Conversely, when hospital admissions decrease in economic downturns, due to reduced consumer spending, a rise in unemployment causing an increase in under- and uninsured patients or other factors, the demand for our temporary healthcare professionals typically declines. This may have an even greater negative effect on demand for physicians in certain specialties such as surgery, radiology and anesthesiology. In addition, we may experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of decreased patient occupancy and hospital admissions, negatively affecting our revenue and profitability.. During challenging economic times, our clients, in particular those that rely on state government funding, may face issues gaining access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make payments to us, timely or otherwise, for services rendered. If that were to occur, we may increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively affected.. If we are unable to anticipate and quickly respond to changing marketplace conditions, such as alternative modes of healthcare delivery, reimbursement and client needs, we may not remain competitive.. Patient delivery settings continue to evolve, giving rise to alternative modes of healthcare delivery, such as retail medicine, telemedicine and home health. In addition, changes in reimbursement models and government mandates are also impacting the healthcare environments.. Our success depends upon our ability to develop innovative workforce solutions and quickly adapt to changing marketplace conditions and client needs, come into compliance with new federal or state regulations, and differentiate our services and abilities from those of our competitors. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive and our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging client needs and marketplace conditions. The development of new service lines and business models requires close attention to emerging trends and proposed federal and state legislation related to the healthcare industry. If we are unable to anticipate changing marketplace conditions, adapt our current business model to adequately meet changing conditions in the healthcare industry and develop and successfully implement innovative services, we may not remain competitive.. Intermediary organizations may impede our ability to secure new and profitable contracts with our clients.. Our business depends upon our ability to maintain our existing contracts and secure new, profitable contracts. Outside of our managed services contracts, our client contracts are not typically exclusive and our clients are generally free to offer temporary staffing assignments to our competitors. Additionally, our clients may choose to purchase these services through intermediaries such as group purchasing organizations or competitors offering MSP services, with whom we establish relationships in order to continue to provide our staffing services to certain of our healthcare facilities. These intermediaries may negatively affect our ability to obtain new clients and maintain our existing client relationships by impeding our ability to access and contract directly with clients and may also negatively affect the profitability of these client relationships. In addition, our inability to establish relationships with these intermediaries may result in us losing our ability to work with certain healthcare facilities.. Consolidation of healthcare delivery organizations could negatively affect pricing of our services and increase our concentration risk.. 8. Healthcare delivery organizations are consolidating, providing them with greater leverage in negotiating pricing for services. In addition, we have seen an increase in our clients' use of intermediaries such as vendor management service companies and group purchasing organizations that may also provide organizations with enhanced bargaining power. These dynamics each separately or together could negatively affect pricing for our services.. Hospital concentration coupled with our success in winning managed services contracts means our revenues from some larger health systems have grown and may continue to grow substantially relative to our other revenue sources. For example, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (and its affiliates) (collectively, \"Kaiser\") comprised approximately 13% of our consolidated revenue in 2017. If we were to lose Kaiser as a client or were unable to provide a significant amount of services to Kaiser, whether directly or as a subcontractor, such loss may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and cash flows.. The ability of our clients to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of their staffing management and recruiting efforts, through predictive analytics, online recruiting or otherwise, may affect the demand for our services, which could negatively affect our revenue, results of operations and cash flows.. If our clients are able to increase the effectiveness of their staffing and recruitment functions through analytics, automation or otherwise, their need for our services may decline. With the advent of technology and more sophisticated staffing management and recruitment processes, clients may be able to successfully increase the efficiency and effectiveness of their internal staffing management and recruiting efforts, through more effective planning and analytic tools, internet- or social media-based recruiting or otherwise.  Such new technologies and processes could reduce the demand for our services, which could negatively affect our revenue, results of operations and cash flows.. The repeal or significant erosion of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"ACA\") without a corresponding replacement may negatively affect the demand for our services.. In 2010, the adoption of the ACA brought significant reforms to the health care system that included, among other things, a requirement that all individuals have health insurance (with limited exceptions). As a result of the ACA, the uninsured population declined by more than 20 million through 2016. In December 2017, the individual mandate was repealed. If the individual mandate repeal actually leads to a significant reduction in demand for the healthcare services, the demand for our services may decline. If members of the investor community believe that a further repeal of, or significant changes to, the ACA are forthcoming and that such actions may significantly reduce the number of insured or the demand for our services, it may have negative effect on the price of our common stock.. Regulatory and Legal Risk Factors. We are subject to federal and state healthcare industry regulation including conduct of operations, costs and payment for services and payment for referrals as well as laws regarding employment practices and government contracting.. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and regulations related to conduct of operations, costs and payment for services and payment for referrals. We provide workforce solutions and services on a contract basis to our clients, who pay us directly. Accordingly, Medicare, Medicaid and insurance reimbursement policy changes generally do not directly impact us. Nevertheless, reimbursement changes in government programs, particularly Medicare and Medicaid, can and do indirectly affect the demand and the prices paid for our services. For example, our clients could receive reduced or no reimbursements because of a change in the rates or conditions set by federal or state governments, which would negatively affect the demand and the prices for our services. Moreover, our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients could suffer civil and criminal penalties, and be excluded from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare programs for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, which may negatively affect our profitability.. A portion of our hospital and healthcare facility clients are state and federal government agencies, where our ability to compete for new contracts and orders, and the profitability of these contracts and orders, may be affected by government legislation, regulation or policy. Additionally, in providing services to state and federal government clients and to clients who participate in state and federal programs, we are also subject to specific laws and regulations, which government agencies have broad latitude to enforce. If we were to be excluded from participation in these programs or should there be regulatory or policy changes or modification of application of existing regulations adverse to us, it would likely materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.. 9. The success of our business depends on our ability to quickly and efficiently assist in obtaining licenses and privileges for our healthcare professionals. The costs to provide these credentialing services impact the revenue and profitability of our business.. We are also subject to certain laws and regulations applicable to recruitment and placement agencies. Like all employers, we must also comply with various laws and regulations relating to employment and pay practices. There is a risk that we could be subject to payment of additional wages, insurance and employment and payroll-related taxes. Because of the nature of our business, the impact of these employment and payroll laws and regulations may have a more pronounced effect on our business. These laws and regulations may also impede our ability to grow the size and profitability of our operations.. The challenge to the classification of certain of our healthcare professionals as independent contractors could adversely affect our profitability.. We treat physicians and certain advanced practitioners, such as certified nurse anesthetists, nurse practitioners and physician assistants, as independent contractors. Federal or state taxing authorities may take the position that such professionals are employees exposing us to additional wage and insurance claims and employment and payroll-related taxes. A reclassification of our locum tenens clinicians and physicians to employees from independent contractors could result in liability that would have a significant negative impact on our profitability for the period in which such reclassification was implemented, and would require changes to our payroll and related business processes, which could be costly. In addition, many states have laws that prohibit non-physician owned companies from employing physicians, referred to as the \"corporate practice of medicine.\" If our independent contractor physicians were classified as employees in states that prohibit the corporate practice of medicine, we may be prohibited from conducting our locum tenens staffing business in those states under our current business model, which may have a substantial negative effect on our revenue, results of operations and profitability.. Investigations, claims and legal proceedings alleging medical malpractice, violation of employment and wage regulations and other theories of liability asserted against us could subject us to substantial liabilities.. We, along with our clients and healthcare professionals, are subject to investigations, claims and legal actions alleging malpractice or related legal theories. At times, plaintiffs name us in these lawsuits and actions regardless of our contractual obligations, the competency of the healthcare professionals, the standard of care provided by the healthcare professionals, the quality of service that we provided or our actions. In certain instances, we are contractually required to indemnify our clients against some or all of these potential legal actions.. Additionally, we may be subject to various employment claims, including state and federal wage and hour claims, by our corporate employees and our employed healthcare professionals that could require us to pay significant additional compensation to such employees and professionals while also exposing us to sizable statutory penalties. We are also subject to possible claims alleging discrimination, sexual harassment and other similar activities in which we or our hospital and healthcare facility clients and their agents have allegedly engaged. As we grow and increase our leadership position, we are at greater risk for anti-competitive conduct claims such as violation of federal and state antitrust laws and unfair business practices arising from our agreements with our employees, contractors, clients and vendors.. The nature of our business requires us to place our healthcare professionals in the workplaces of other businesses. Many of these individuals have access to client proprietary information systems and confidential information. An inherent risk of such activity includes possible claims of intentional misconduct, release, misuse or misappropriation of client intellectual property, confidential information, funds or other property, cybersecurity breaches affecting our clients or us, criminal activity, torts or other claims. Such claims may result in negative publicity, injunctive relief, criminal investigations or charges, civil litigation, payment by us of monetary damages or fines, or other adverse effects on our business, which may be material.. We maintain various types of insurance coverage for these types of claims, including professional liability and employment practices, through commercial insurance carriers and a wholly-owned captive insurance company. The cost of defending such claims, even if groundless, could be substantial and the associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and place qualified employees and healthcare professionals in the future. We may also experience increased insurance premiums and retention and deductible accruals that we may not be able to pass on to our clients, thereby reducing our profitability. Moreover, our insurance coverage and reserve accruals may not be sufficient to cover all claims against us.. We are also subject to examination of our payroll practices from various federal and state taxation authorities from time to time and an unforeseen negative outcome from such an exam could have a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 10. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer and could subject us to substantial liabilities.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, such as our proprietary business information and that of our clients as well as personally identifiable information of our healthcare professionals and employees, including full names, social security numbers, addresses, birth dates and payroll-related information, in our data centers, on our networks and in hosted SaaS-based solutions provided by third parties. Our employees may also have access to, receive and use personal health information in the ordinary course of our business. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures and business controls, our information technology and infrastructure, including the third party SaaS-based technology in which we store personally identifiable information and other sensitive information of our healthcare professionals and employees, may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers, breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions or subject to the inadvertent or intentional unauthorized release of information. Any such occurrence could compromise our networks and the information stored thereon could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could (1) result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information and regulatory penalties, (2) disrupt our operations and the services we provide to our clients and (3) damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our profitability, revenue and competitive position.. Additionally, the possession and use of personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens in the United States and other countries. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations with our clients.. Risk Factors Related to Our Operations, Personnel and Information Systems. Our inability to implement new infrastructure and technology systems and technology disruptions may adversely affect our operating results and ability to manage our business effectively.. We have technology, operations and human capital infrastructures to support our existing business. Our ability to deliver services to our clients and to manage our commercial technologies, internal systems and data depends largely upon our access to and the performance of our management information and communications systems, including our VMS, client relationship management systems and client/healthcare professional-facing self-service websites. These technology systems also maintain accounting and financial information upon which we depend to fulfill our financial reporting obligations. We must continue to invest in this infrastructure and we have embarked on a multi-year plan to upgrade and convert our infrastructure, back office and front office network platforms to support our growth, enhance our management and utilization of data and improve our efficiency. Implementing new systems is costly and involves risks inherent in the conversion to a new technology platform, including loss of information, disruption to our normal operations, changes in accounting procedures and internal control over financial reporting, as well as problems achieving accuracy in the conversion of electronic data. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in increased costs, the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources and could materially adversely affect our operating results, internal controls over financial reporting and ability to manage our business effectively. Furthermore, if we are unable to continue to improve our technology and operations processes to gain efficiency and support our growth, our financial results will be adversely affected.. Although we have risk mitigation measures, these systems, and our access to these systems, are not impervious to floods, fire, storms, or other natural disasters, or service interruptions. There also is a potential for intentional and deliberate attacks to our systems, which may lead to service interruptions, data corruption or data theft. Additionally, these systems are subject to other non-environmental risks, including technological obsolescence and lack of strategic alignment with our evolving business. If our current or planned systems do not adequately support our operations, are damaged or disrupted or if we are unable to replace, repair, maintain or expand them, it may adversely affect our business operations and our profitability.. Disruption to or failures of our SaaS-based technology or our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights with respect to such technology could reduce client satisfaction, harm our reputation and negatively affect our business.. The performance, reliability and security of the SaaS-based technologies, such as ShiftWise, Medefis and Avantas Smart Square, are critical to such offerings' operations, reputation and ability to attract new clients. Some of our clients rely on our SaaS-based technology to perform certain of their operational functions. Accordingly, any degradation, errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our SaaS-based technology could damage our or our clients' operations and reputations and negatively affect our business. We are converting to new instances of our vendor management system technologies with the platform conversion heightening our risk of business disruption. If any of these problems occur, our. 11. clients may, among other things, terminate their agreements with us or make indemnification or other claims against us, which may also negatively affect us.. Additionally, if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately with respect to our SaaS-based technology, our competitors might gain access to it, and our business might be harmed. Moreover, any of our intellectual property rights protecting our SaaS-based technology, including our newly developed vendor management platforms, may be challenged by others or invalidated through litigation, and defending our intellectual property rights might also entail significant expense. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using or infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property with respect to our SaaS-based technology, which may negatively affect our business as it relates to our SaaS-based offerings.. Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business and disrupt operations.. Cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these incidents or techniques, timely discover them, or implement adequate preventative measures. Our information technology may not provide sufficient protection, and as a result we may lose significant information about us or our employees or clients. Other results of these incidents could include, but are not limited to, disrupted operations, liability for stolen assets or the disclosure of personally identifiable information of our employees or independent contractors, misstated financial data, increased cybersecurity protection costs, litigation and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence.. If we do not continue to recruit and retain sufficient quality healthcare professionals at reasonable costs, it could increase our operating costs and negatively affect our business and our profitability.. We rely significantly on our ability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of healthcare professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our clients. We compete with healthcare staffing companies, recruitment and placement agencies, including online staffing and recruitment agencies, and with hospitals, healthcare facilities and physician practice groups to attract healthcare professionals based on the quantity, diversity and quality of assignments offered, compensation packages and the benefits that we provide. We rely on our human capital intensive, relationship-oriented approach and national infrastructure to enable us to compete in all aspects of our business. We must continually evaluate and expand our temporary and permanent healthcare professional network to serve the needs of our clients.. With a current shortage of certain qualified nurses and physicians in many areas of the United States, competition for the hiring of these professionals remains intense. Our ability to recruit and retain temporary and permanent healthcare professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide our healthcare professionals with assignments and placements that they view as attractive and to provide competitive compensation packages. The costs of attracting healthcare professionals and providing them with attractive compensation packages may be higher than we anticipate, or we may be unable to pass these costs on to our hospital and healthcare facility clients, which may reduce our profitability. Moreover, if we are unable to recruit temporary and permanent healthcare professionals, our service execution may deteriorate and, as a result, we could lose clients.. The inability to properly screen and match quality healthcare professionals with suitable placements may negatively affect demand for our services.. Our success depends on the quality of our healthcare professionals. Our ability to ensure the quality of our healthcare professionals relies heavily on the effectiveness of our data and communication systems as well as properly trained and competent operational employees that screen and match healthcare professionals in suitable placements. An inability to properly screen, match, and monitor healthcare professionals for acceptable credentials, experience and performance may cause clients to lose confidence in our services, which may damage our brand and reputation and result in clients opting to utilize competitors' services or rely on their own internal resources.. Our operations may deteriorate if we are unable to continue to attract, develop and retain our sales and operations team members.. Our success depends heavily upon the recruitment, performance and retention of our sales and operations team members who share our values, passion and commitment to customer focus. The number of individuals who meet our qualifications for these positions is limited, and we may experience difficulty in attracting qualified candidates, especially as we diversify our offerings and our business becomes more complex. In addition, we commit substantial resources to the training, development. 12. and support of our team members. Competition for qualified sales and operational team members in the line of business in which we operate is strong, and we may not be able to retain a sufficient number of team members after we have expended the time and expense to recruit and train them.. We are increasingly dependent on third parties for the execution of certain critical functions.. We have outsourced and offshored certain critical applications or business processes to external providers, including cloud-based, credentialing and data processing services. We exercise care in the selection and oversight of these providers. However, the failure or inability to perform on the part of one or more of these critical suppliers could cause significant disruptions and increased costs to our business as well as reputational damage.. The loss of key officers and management personnel could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We believe that the success of our business strategy and our ability to maintain our recent levels of profitability depends on the continued employment of our senior executive team. We have an employment agreement with Susan R. Salka, our President and Chief Executive Officer, through May 4, 2019, which is renewable on an annual basis. Other executive members of the management team are employees at will with standard severance agreements. If members of our executive team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. Our inability to maintain our positive brand awareness and identity may adversely affect our results of operations.. We have invested substantial amounts in acquiring, developing and maintaining our brands, and our success depends on our ability to maintain positive brand awareness identities for existing services and effectively building up brand awareness and image for new services. We cannot assure that additional expenditures and our continuing commitment to marketing and improving our brands will have the desired effect on our brands' value, which may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our brands may suffer reputational damage that could negatively affect our short- and long-term financial results. The poor performance, reputation or negative conduct of competitors may have a spillover effect adversely affecting the industry and our brand.. Our inability to consummate and effectively incorporate acquisitions into our business operations may adversely affect our long-term growth and our results of operations.. We invest time and resources in carefully assessing opportunities for acquisitions, and acquisitions are a key component of our growth strategy. We have made acquisitions in the past several years to broaden the scope and depth of our workforce solutions and bolster our workforce services. If we are unable to consummate additional acquisitions, we may not achieve our long-term growth goals.. Despite diligence and integration planning, acquisitions still present certain risks, including the time and economic costs of integrating an acquisition's technology, control and financial systems, unforeseen liabilities, and the difficulties in bringing together different work cultures and personnel. Difficulties in integrating our acquisitions, including attracting and retaining talent to grow and manage these acquired businesses, may adversely affect our results of operations.. Future acquisitions are accompanied by the risk that the obligations and liabilities of an acquired company may not be adequately reflected in the historical financial statements of that company and the risk that those historical financial statements may be based on assumptions that are incorrect or inconsistent with our assumptions or approach to accounting policies. Any of these material obligations, liabilities or incorrect or inconsistent assumptions could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We maintain a substantial amount of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles on our balance sheet that may decrease our earnings or increase our losses if we recognize an impairment to goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles.. We maintain goodwill on our balance sheet, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets and indefinite-lived intangibles we acquired. We evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. If we identify an impairment, we record a charge to earnings. An impairment charge to goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles would decrease our earnings or increase our losses, as the case may be.. 13. Risk Factors Related to Our Indebtedness and Other Liabilities. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of any variable rate debt.. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness, less unamortized fees, equaled $319.8 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including:. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments,. • requiring a portion of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities,. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness,. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures,. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product and service development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes, and. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our substantial indebtedness may prevent us from exploiting.. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. Additionally, if we are not in compliance with the covenants and obligations under our debt instruments, we would be in default, and the lenders could call the debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. The terms of our debt instruments impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business.. Our debt instruments contain various covenants that could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity,. • pay dividends on, redeem, repurchase, or make distributions in respect of our capital stock, prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt or make other restricted payments,. • make certain investments,. • create, or permit to exist, certain liens,. • sell assets,. • enter into sale/leaseback transactions,. • enter into agreements restricting restricted subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make other payments,. • consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets,. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates, and. • designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and if such events occur, we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply. A breach of these covenants could result in a default under our debt instruments (including as a result of cross-default provisions) and, in the case of our revolver under our credit agreement, permit the lenders thereunder to cease making loans to us. If there were an event of default under any of our debt instruments, holders of such defaulted debt could cause all amounts borrowed under the applicable instrument to be due and payable immediately. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments in the event of a default thereunder.. In addition, the restrictive covenants in our credit agreement require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Although we were in compliance with the financial ratios and financial condition tests set forth in our credit agreement on December 31, 2017, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market, and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. A breach of. 14. any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement (and our other debt instruments to the extent the default triggers a cross default provision) and, in the case of the revolver under our credit agreement, permit the lenders thereunder to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such action by the lenders could cause cross-defaults under our other debt instruments.. We have substantial insurance-related accruals on our balance sheet, and any significant adverse adjustments may decrease our earnings or increase our losses and negatively impact our cash flows.. We maintain accruals related to our captive insurance company and self-insured retentions for various lines of insurance coverage, including professional liability, employment practices, health insurance and workers compensation on our balance sheet. We determine the adequacy of our accruals by evaluating our historical experience and trends, related to both insurance claims and payments, information provided to us by our insurance brokers, attorneys, third-party administrators and actuarial firms as well as industry experience and trends. If such information collectively indicates that our accruals are understated, we provide for additional accruals; a significant increase to these accruals would decrease our earnings."
