[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. From time to time, important factors may cause actual results to differ materially from future expected results based on performance expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements made by us, including known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are not possible to predict or control. Several of these factors are described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, but the factors described in filings are not the only risks that the Corporation faces.. Cyclical demand for products and economic downturns may reduce the demand for, and sales of, our products, which could adversely affect our margins and profitability.. A significant portion of the Forged and Cast Engineered Products segment's sales consists of mill rolls to customers in the global steel industry which can be periodically impacted by economic or cyclical downturns. Such downturns, the timing and length of which are difficult to predict, may reduce the demand for, and sales of, our forged and cast steel rolls both in the United States and the rest of the world. Lower demand for rolls may also adversely impact profitability as other competing roll producers lower selling prices in the marketplace in order to fill their manufacturing capacity. Cancellation of orders or deferral of delivery of rolls may occur and produce an adverse impact on financial results. In addition, sales of non-roll product, consisting of open-die forged product primarily for the oil and gas industries, are impacted by fluctuations in global energy prices.. Excess global capacity in steel industry could lower prices for our products, which would adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability, as well as collectability of receivables and salability of in-process inventory.. The global steel manufacturing capacity continues to exceed global consumption of steel products. Such excess capacity often results in manufacturers in certain countries exporting steel at prices significantly below their home market prices (often due to local government assistance or subsidies), which leads to global market destabilization and reduced sales and profitability of some of our and our subsidiaries' customers, which, in turn, affects our sales and profit margins, as well as collectability of receivables and salability of in-process inventory.. Steel industry consolidation resulted in certain customers having increased buying power, which could put pressure on prices of our products and result in lower profit margins.. As a result of reduced demand for steel products, the steel industry has undergone structural change by way of consolidation and mergers. In certain markets, the resultant reduction in the number of steel plants and the increased buying power of the enlarged steel producing companies may put pressure on the selling prices and profit margins of mill rolls.. 4. A reduction in the level of export sales, as well as other economic factors in foreign countries, may have an adverse impact on our financial results.. Exports are a significant proportion of our subsidiaries' sales. Historically, changes in foreign exchange rates, particularly in respect of the U.S. dollar, British pound, Swedish krona and the euro, have impacted the export of our products and may do so again in the future. Other factors that may adversely impact export sales and operating results include political and economic instability, export controls, changes in tax laws and tariffs and new indigenous producers in overseas markets. A reduction in the level of export sales may have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, exchange rate changes may allow foreign roll suppliers to compete in our home markets.. Fluctuation of the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Certain of our subsidiaries operate in foreign jurisdictions and, accordingly, earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Since our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, and assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect the translated value for revenue, expenses and balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies and could materially affect our financial results expressed in U.S. dollars.. A downturn in capital spending in the United States and other jurisdictions may reduce demand for and sales of certain of our products, which would result in reduced profit margins.. Each of our businesses is susceptible to the general level of economic activity, particularly as it impacts industrial and construction capital spending. A downturn in capital spending in the United States and elsewhere may reduce demand for and sales of our subsidiaries' air handling, power generation and refrigeration equipment, forged engineered products and mill rolls. Lower demand may also reduce profit margins due to our competitors and us striving to maximize manufacturing capacity by lowering prices.. Commodity price increases, as well as any reductions in electricity, gas supply or shortage of key production materials, could adversely impact our production, which would result in lower profitability.. Our subsidiaries use certain commodities in the manufacture of their products. These include steel scrap, ferroalloys, energy and graphite electrodes. Any sudden price increase may cause a reduction in profit margins or losses where fixed-priced contracts have been accepted or increases cannot be obtained in future selling prices. In addition, there may be curtailment in electricity or gas supply which would adversely impact production. Shortage of critical materials, while driving up costs, may be of such severity as to disrupt production, all of which may impact sales and profitability. The current global supply shortage of graphite electrodes used for electric arc furnace melting of our steels could materially impact results of operations should we be unable to secure sufficient supply for our production requirements.. We may not be able to realize the expected benefits from the acquisitions that we make, and we may experience difficulties in integrating the acquired businesses.. We have made in the past, and may continue to make, certain acquisitions and enter into joint ventures, which are intended to complement or expand our businesses. These acquisitions involve a variety of challenges and risks. We may encounter difficulties integrating acquired businesses with our operations or applying our internal control processes to these acquisitions. Other risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, and potential disputes with the sellers. We may not be able to complete certain acquisitions due to antitrust laws and regulations in various jurisdictions. Additionally, we may not realize the degree of timing of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. A work stoppage or another industrial action on the part of any of our unions may be disruptive to our operations.. Our subsidiaries have several key operations which are subject to multi-year collective bargaining agreements with their hourly work forces. While we believe we have good relations with our unions, there is the risk of industrial action or work stoppage at the expiration of an agreement if contract negotiations break down, which may disrupt manufacturing and impact results of operations.. 5. Dependence on certain equipment may cause an interruption in our production if such equipment is out of operation for an extended period of time, which would result in lower sales and profitability.. Our subsidiaries' principal business relies on certain unique equipment such as an electric arc furnace and a spin cast work roll machine. Although a comprehensive critical spare inventory of key components for this equipment is maintained, if any such unique equipment is out of operation for an extended period, it may result in a significant reduction in our sales and earnings.. The ultimate liability of our subsidiaries for claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos-containing components historically used in certain products of our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity in the future.. Our subsidiaries, and in some cases, we, are defendants in numerous claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos-containing components historically used in certain products of our subsidiaries. Through year-end 2017, our insurance has covered a substantial majority of our settlement and defense costs. We believe that the estimated costs net of anticipated insurance recoveries of our pending and future asbestos legal proceedings for the next ten years should not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity. However, there can be no assurance that our subsidiaries or we will not be subject to significant additional claims in the future or that our subsidiaries' ultimate liability with respect to asbestos claims will not present significantly greater and longer lasting financial exposure than provided in our consolidated financial statements. The ultimate net liability with respect to such pending and any unasserted claims is subject to various uncertainties, including the following:. •  the number of claims that are brought in the future;. •  the costs of defending and settling these claims;. •  insolvencies among our insurance carriers and the risk of future insolvencies;. •  the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require damage payments in amounts greater than the amounts for which we have historically settled claims;. •  possible changes in the litigation environment or federal and state law governing the compensation of asbestos claimants; and. •  the risk that the bankruptcies of other asbestos defendants may increase our costs.. Because of the uncertainties related to such claims, it is possible that the ultimate liability could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity in the future.. The loss of any of our key management or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel may prevent us from our implementing our business strategy.. Our success is dependent on the management, experience and leadership skills of our senior management team and key employees. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel with similar industry experience could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management and key personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed.. Potential attacks on information technology infrastructure and other cyber-based business disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on integrated information technology (\"IT\") systems to conduct our business. IT systems failures, including risks associated with upgrading our systems or in successfully integrating IT and other systems in connection with the integration of businesses we acquire, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. Cyber-based risks, in particular, are evolving and include both attacks to our IT infrastructure and attacks to the IT infrastructure of third parties in attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential or other proprietary information, or information relating to our employees, customers and other third parties. Although we have taken steps to address these concerns, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 6. We could be exposed to substantial liabilities resulting from non-compliance with domestic and international environmental laws and regulations.. We and our subsidiaries are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and disposal of wastes and which may require that we and our subsidiaries investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. We and our subsidiaries could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities.. A change in the existing regulatory environment could negatively affect our operations and financial performance.. We are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including, without limitation, securities laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, export controls and sanctions laws, data privacy and security laws, and laws governing improper business practices. We are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. These laws, regulations and policies, and changes thereto, may result in restrictions or limitations to our current operational practices and processes and product/service offerings which could negatively impact our current cost structure, revenue streams, cash flows, and overall financial position.. Additionally, we are subject to tax laws and regulations in the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions. We are affected by changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to examinations and investigations by various tax authorities. In addition to existing examinations and investigations, there could be further examinations and investigations in the future, and existing examinations and investigations could be expanded.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. federal government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform\"), to become effective as of January 1, 2018, which, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21%, implemented a modified territorial tax system and imposed a one-time tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Tax Reform contains numerous complex provisions impacting U.S. multinational companies, and we continue to review and assess the legislative language and its potential impact on us. The full extent of the impact remains uncertain at this time, and our current interpretations of, and assumptions regarding, the Tax Reform are subject to additional regulatory or administrative developments, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. As a result, the Tax Reform, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, and other tax laws could have significant effects on us, some of which may be adverse and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In 2018, President Trump announced he would impose tariffs of 25% on steel imports and 10% on aluminum imports. As consumers of steel and aluminum in some of our Air & Liquid Processing segment products, our costs could be significantly impacted if the tariffs are imposed, potentially reducing our margins and risking loss of market share to foreign competitors not subject to similar tariffs. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, one of our U.S. subsidiaries purchases intercompany steel produced by another subsidiary located in Canada, which also exports steel to customers in the U.S. Canada is temporarily exempted from the proposed tariffs. If this exemption is not made permanent, we could lose margin and/or market share for the related business. Uncertainties regarding the scope of the proposed tariffs could also pose potential risk to the cost of certain intercompany value-added intermediary product transfers. Accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly affected.. New trade restrictions and regulatory burdens associated with \"Brexit\" could adversely impact our operations and financial performance.. On June 23, 2016, voters in the United Kingdom approved a referendum to exit from the European Union (\"E.U.\"), commonly known as \"Brexit.\" As the United Kingdom and the E.U. continue negotiations to determine their new relationship, greater restrictions and regulatory burdens may be put upon trade between the United Kingdom and the E.U. This may have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.. We may face limitations in availability of capital to fund our growth strategy.. We are parties to a Revolving Credit and Security Agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\"), a senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility collateralized by a first priority perfected security interest in substantially all of our assets. The Credit Agreement provides for initial borrowings not to exceed $100 million, with an option to increase the credit facility by an additional $50 million at our request and with the approval of the banks, but restricts us from incurring additional indebtedness outside of the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement is subject to various affirmative and negative covenants and contains various sub-limits, including those based on type of collateral and borrowings by geographic region. If the financial covenants become difficult to meet or if our borrowing needs increase. 7. beyond the prescribed limits, our results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. In addition, our access to public debt markets may be limited based on our size, credit profile and not being a well-known seasoned issuer."
