[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. Our future operating results may vary substantially from anticipated results due to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that affect us. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and uncertainties and the possible impact of these risks on future results of operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the market value of our common stock could decline substantially and you could lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. Our enoxaparin and naloxone products collectively represent a majority of our net revenues. If the sales volume or pricing of our enoxaparin product continues to decline, if the sales volume or pricing of our naloxone product declines, or if we are unable to satisfy market demand for these products, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. Sales from our enoxaparin product represented 15%, 23%, and 34% of our total net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, and sales of our naloxone products represented 18%, 19%, and 15% of our total net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. We are currently experiencing declining revenue from enoxaparin and some of our other existing products and we may operate at a loss in the near term while continuing to invest in developing new products. If the sales volume or pricing of enoxaparin continues to decline, if the sales volume or pricing of naloxone declines, or if we are unable to satisfy market demand for these products, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the market value of our common stock could decline. For example, due to intense pricing competition in the pharmaceutical industry, we have experienced significant declines in the per unit pricing and gross margins attributable to our enoxaparin product since its commercial launch. Our enoxaparin and naloxone products could be rendered obsolete or negatively impacted by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecreasing average sales prices;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopment by others of new pharmaceutical products that are more effective than ours;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tentrance of new competitors into our markets;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloss of key relationships with suppliers, group purchasing organizations or end-user customers;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmanufacturing or supply interruptions;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincrease in material input costs;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the prescribing practices of physicians;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in third-party reimbursement practices;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduct liability claims; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduct recalls or safety alerts.. Any factor adversely affecting the sale of these products may cause our revenues to decline, and we may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability.. 28. Table of Contents. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.. Generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, in May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue From Contracts With Customers (Topic 606), as subsequently amended, which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP and became effective for us beginning the first quarter of fiscal 2018. In addition, were we to change our critical accounting estimates, our results of operations could be significantly impacted. These or other changes in accounting principles could adversely affect our financial results. See Note 2 of the Notes to Financial Statements in Part II - Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding the effect of new accounting pronouncements on our financial statements. Any difficulties in implementing these pronouncements could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could result in regulatory discipline and harm investors' confidence in us.. Our success depends on our ability to develop and/or acquire and commercialize additional pharmaceutical products.. Our financial results depend upon our ability to commercialize additional generic and proprietary pharmaceutical products that address unmet medical needs, are accepted by patients and physicians and are reimbursed by payers. Commercialization requires that we successfully and cost-effectively develop, test and manufacture or otherwise acquire both generic and proprietary products. All of our products must receive regulatory approval and meet (and continue to comply with) regulatory and safety standards. If health or safety concerns arise with respect to a product, we may be forced to withdraw it from the market. For example, as a result of environmental concerns over the use of chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, issued a final rule on January 16, 2009, that required the phase-out of the CFC formulation of our Primatene® Mist product by December 31, 2011. As a result, in order to resume selling Primatene® Mist we have developed a formulation of the product that will use hydrofluoroalkane, or HFA, as the propellant, and we are attempting to seek FDA approval for the modified product. There can be no guarantee that our investment in research and development activities will result in FDA approval or produce a commercially viable new product. For example, on December 27, 2016, we received a complete response letter from the FDA informing us that our NDA for Primatene® Mist cannot be approved in its present form. See the risk factor entitled, \"The FDA approval process is time-consuming and complicated, and we may not obtain the FDA approval required for a product within the timeline we desire, or at all. Additionally, we may lose FDA approval of our approved products and/or our products may become subject to foreign regulations.\". The development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to our proprietary products, is time-consuming, costly and involves a high degree of business risk. Our products currently under development, if and when fully developed and tested, may not perform as we expect. Necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all, and we may not be able to produce and market such products successfully and profitably. For example, we filed an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, for our enoxaparin product in March 2003, but FDA approval was not granted until September 2011 due to delays caused largely by our inclusion in lengthy litigation with Sanofi S.A., or Sanofi, the FDA's requirement that we perform immunogenicity studies and the receipt of an FDA Warning Letter by the supplier of the starting material for our enoxaparin product, who also became the subject of an FDA Import Alert. Following FDA approval, we became involved in litigation with Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Sandoz, Inc., which further delayed the commercial launch of our enoxaparin product until January 2012. Delays in any part of the process, or our inability to obtain regulatory approval of our products, could adversely affect our operating results by restricting or delaying our introduction of new products, which could cause the market value of our products to decline. To the extent that we expend significant resources on research and development efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new products as a result of those efforts, our business, financial position and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and the market value of our common stock could decline.. Our ability to introduce new generic products also depends upon our success in challenging patent rights held by third parties or in developing non-infringing products. Due to the emergence and development of competing products over time, our overall profitability depends on, among other things, our ability to introduce new products in a timely manner, to continue to manufacture products cost-effectively and to manage the life cycle of our product portfolio. If we are. 29. Table of Contents. unable to cost-effectively maintain an adequate flow of successful generic and proprietary products and new indications and/or delivery methods for existing products sufficient to cover our substantial research and development costs and the decline in sales of older products that either become subject to generic competition, or are displaced by competing products or therapies, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We incurred losses for fiscal 2015 and we may operate at a loss in the near term while continuing to invest in developing new products.. We recorded a net loss of $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. These losses resulted principally from a decrease in profits from enoxaparin. Although we achieved net income in the years ended 2016 and 2017, we may incur operating and net losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. Our business may generate operating losses if we do not successfully commercialize our product candidates, maintain sales of and profits from existing products, and generate sufficient revenues to support our level of operating expenses, especially as we continue our investment in developing new products. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our commercialization efforts and future product development, we are unable to predict whether we will be able to achieve and maintain profitability.. Our success depends on the integrity of our supply chain, including multiple single source suppliers, the disruption of which could negatively impact our business.. Some of our products are the result of complex manufacturing processes, and some require highly specialized raw materials. Because our business requires outsourcing in some instances, we are subject to inherent uncertainties related to product safety, availability and security. For some of our key raw materials, components and active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, used in certain of our products, we have only a single, external source of supply, and alternate sources of supply may not be readily available. For example, we purchase heparin USP as the starting material for producing our enoxaparin product exclusively from a single source supplier and, in 2009, this supplier received a Warning Letter from the FDA and was the subject of an FDA Import Alert. The resulting shortage of heparin USP resulted in significant delays to the FDA approval process for our enoxaparin product. There are no guarantees our supplier will not receive Warning Letters in the future or that we will be able to replace this single source supplier with an alternate supplier on a commercially reasonable and timely basis, or at all, to prevent a shortage of heparin USP. Additionally, in 2013, our single source supplier of epinephrine API for our Primatene® Mist product candidate received a warning letter from the FDA, which our supplier has since addressed. In the future, it is possible that our suppliers will receive warning letters from the FDA and be unsuccessful in their efforts to address the issues raised in such warning letters on a timely basis, or at all, or may discontinue production of raw materials, components or APIs used in our products or product candidates, which would result in delays in commercialization and/or manufacturing of our products or product candidates if FDA approval for such products or product candidates is received. Furthermore, we may be unable to replace such supplier with an alternate supplier on a commercially reasonable and timely basis, or at all.. If we fail to maintain relationships with our current suppliers, we may not be able to complete development, commercialization or marketing of our products, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business. Third-party suppliers may not perform as agreed, may discontinue production, or may terminate their agreements with us. For example, because these third parties provide materials to a number of other pharmaceutical companies, they may experience capacity constraints or choose to prioritize one or more of their other customers over us. Any significant problem that our suppliers experience could delay or interrupt our supply of materials until the supplier cures the problem or until we locate, negotiate for, validate and receive FDA approval for an alternative source of supply, if one is available. In the near term, we do not anticipate that the FDA will approve alternative sources to back up our primary suppliers. Therefore, if our primary suppliers become unable or unwilling to manufacture or deliver materials, we could experience protracted delays or interruptions in the supply of materials. This would ultimately delay our manufacture of products for commercial sale, which could materially and adversely affect our development programs, commercial activities, operating results and financial condition.. Additionally, any failure by us to forecast demand for, or to maintain an adequate supply of, the raw material and finished product could result in an interruption in the supply of certain products and a decline in sales of that product.. 30. Table of Contents. Underutilization of our manufacturing capacity could negatively impact our gross margins.. We have invested significantly in our manufacturing capacity in order to vertically integrate our business, contain the costs of raw materials and reduce the risks imposed by relying on third-party single source suppliers. We currently own and operate facilities that manufacture raw materials and APIs for our products and product candidates and those of our customers and partners, including insulin API for MannKind. However, if market demand decreases or if market supply surpasses demand, whether because of macroeconomic factors, pharmaceutical industry volatility, or deficiencies specific to our customers, we may not be able to reduce manufacturing expenses or overhead costs proportionately. For example, a significant portion of our manufacturing capacity in our facility in Éragny-sur-Epte, France is utilized for the manufacture of insulin API for MannKind, and a significant portion of our manufacturing capacity in Rancho Cucamonga is utilized for the manufacture of enoxaparin. On November 9, 2016, we amended our supply agreement with MannKind, or the Supply Agreement and our option purchase agreement with MannKind, or the Option Agreement, to modify and extend the annual minimum purchase commitments under the Supply Agreement and the Option Agreement to cover calendar years 2014 through 2023, which timeframe had previously lapsed after calendar year 2019. While the aggregate total purchase commitment remains unchanged, the amendments to the Supply Agreement and the Option Agreement have resulted and will continue to result in reduced sales of API for MannKind on an annual basis.. If an increase in supply outpaces the increase in market demand, or if demand decreases, such as a further reduction in sales of insulin API for MannKind, the resulting oversupply could adversely impact our sales and result in the underutilization of our manufacturing capacity, high inventory levels, changes in revenue mix and rapid price erosion, which would lower our margins and adversely impact our financial results. In addition, in order to offset fixed manufacturing overhead costs and utilize our current facilities and personnel, it may at times be in our best interest to continue to produce and sell products that are not profitable in the near term, although this would negatively impact our gross margins.. We face significant competition in the pharmaceutical industry with respect to both our proprietary and generic drugs, which may result in others developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do, which could significantly limit our growth and materially and adversely affect our financial results.. The majority of our marketed products are generic products. We face and will face significant competition for our products and product candidates from pharmaceutical companies that focus on the generic injectable and inhalation markets such as Pfizer, Inc., Sagent Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Akorn, Inc., Sandoz Inc., Mylan Inc., Fresenius Kabi USA and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. Competition in the generic pharmaceutical industry has increased as producers of branded products have entered the business by creating generic drug subsidiaries, purchasing generic drug companies, or licensing their products to generic manufacturers prior to patent expiration and/or as their patents expire.. Our business operates in the pharmaceutical industry, which is an industry characterized by intense competition. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, research and development, marketing and other resources than we do. Consequently, many of our competitors may be able to develop products and/or processes competitive with, or superior to, our own. For example, a competitor has received FDA approval for their intranasal naloxone product in the markets for which we are currently seeking approval. We are concentrating the majority of our efforts and resources on developing product candidates utilizing our proprietary technologies. The commercial success of products utilizing such technologies will depend, in large part, on the intensity of competition, labeling claims approved by the FDA for our products compared to claims approved for competitive products and the relative timing and sequence for commercial launch of new products by other companies that compete with our new products. If alternative technologies or other therapeutic approaches are adopted prior to our new product approvals, then the market for our new products may be substantially decreased, thus reducing our ability to generate future profits.. This intensely competitive environment requires an ongoing, extensive search for technological innovations and the ability to market products effectively, including the ability to communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of our products to healthcare professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations. Our competitors vary depending upon product categories, and within each product category, upon dosage strengths and upon drug-delivery systems. Based on total assets, annual revenues and market capitalization, we are smaller than many of our national and international competitors with respect to both our generic and proprietary pharmaceutical products and. 31. Table of Contents. product candidates. Many of our competitors have been in business for a longer period of time than us, have a greater number of products on the market and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Furthermore, recent trends in this industry are toward further market consolidation of large drug companies into a smaller number of very large entities, further concentrating financial, technical and market strength and increasing competitive pressure in the industry. If we directly compete with large entities for the same markets and/or products, their financial strength could prevent us from capturing a profitable share of those markets. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. It is possible that developments by our competitors will make our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.. If we fail to obtain exclusive marketing rights for our generic pharmaceutical products or fail to introduce these generic products on a timely basis, our revenues, gross margin and operating results may decline significantly.. The Hatch-Waxman amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, provide for a period of 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity for any applicant that is first-to-file an ANDA containing a certification of invalidity, non-infringement or unenforceability related to a patent listed with respect to the corresponding brand drug, which we refer to as a Paragraph IV certification. The holder of an approved ANDA containing a Paragraph IV certification that is successful in challenging the applicable brand drug patent(s) is often able to price the applicable generic drug to yield relatively high gross margins during this 180-day marketing exclusivity period. ANDAs that contain Paragraph IV certifications challenging patents, however, generally become the subject of patent litigation that can be both lengthy and costly. There is no certainty that we will prevail in any such litigation, that we will be the first-to-file and granted the 180-day marketing exclusivity period or, if we are granted the 180-day marketing exclusivity period, that we will not forfeit such period. Even where we are awarded marketing exclusivity, we may be required to share our exclusivity period with other ANDA applicants who submit Paragraph IV certifications. In addition, brand companies often authorize a generic version of the corresponding brand drug to be sold during any period of marketing exclusivity that is awarded, which reduces gross margins during the marketing exclusivity period. Brand companies may also reduce the price of their brand product to compete directly with generics entering the market, which similarly would have the effect of reducing gross margins. Furthermore, timely commencement of litigation by the patent owner imposes an automatic stay of ANDA approval by the FDA for 30 months, unless the case is decided in the ANDA applicant's favor during that period. Finally, if the court's decision is adverse to the ANDA applicant, the ANDA approval will be delayed until the challenged patent expires, and the applicant will not be granted the 180-day marketing exclusivity.. Accordingly, our revenues and future profitability are dependent, in large part, upon our ability or the ability of our development partners to file ANDAs with the FDA timely and effectively or to enter into contractual relationships with other parties that have obtained marketing exclusivity. We may not be able to develop and introduce successful products in the future within the time constraints necessary to be successful. If we or our development partners are unable to continue to timely and effectively file ANDAs with the FDA or to partner with other parties that have obtained marketing exclusivity, our revenues, gross margin and operating results may decline significantly, and our prospects and business may be materially adversely affected.. Our generic products face, and our generic product candidates will face, additional competitive pressures that are specific to the generic pharmaceutical industry.. With respect to our generic pharmaceutical business, revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on certain regulatory and competitive factors. As patents and exclusivities protecting a brand name product expire, the first manufacturer to receive regulatory approval for a generic version of the product is generally able to achieve significant market penetration. Therefore, our ability to increase or maintain revenues and profitability in our generics business is largely dependent on our success in challenging patents and developing non-infringing formulations of proprietary products. As competing manufacturers receive regulatory approvals on generic products or as brand manufacturers launch generic versions of their products (for which no separate regulatory approval is required), market share, revenues and gross profit typically decline, often significantly and rapidly. Accordingly, the level of market share, revenue and gross profit attributable to a particular generic product normally is related to the number of competitors in that product's market and the timing of that product's regulatory approval and launch, in relation to competing approvals and launches. For example, enoxaparin is currently marketed by Sanofi, under the brand name Lovenox®. Sanofi also markets its authorized generic enoxaparin product through its subsidiary, Winthrop, and also through Fresenius Kabi USA. Sandoz and Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd., also. 32. Table of Contents. market a generic version of enoxaparin. Other companies may have filed an ANDA with the FDA for approval of enoxaparin. The presence of these current and prospective competitive products has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our market share, revenue and gross profit from our enoxaparin product. Since the commercial launch of our enoxaparin product, we have experienced significant declines in sales volume, per unit pricing and gross margins attributable to this product. Consequently, we must continue to develop and introduce new generic products in a timely and cost-effective manner to maintain our revenues and gross margins. We may have fewer opportunities to launch significant generic products in the future, as the number and size of proprietary products that are subject to patent challenges is expected to decrease in the next several years compared to historical levels. Additionally, as new competitors enter the market, there may be increased pricing pressure on certain products, which may result in lower gross margins. In addition to our enoxaparin product, we have experienced significant pricing pressure on many of our other products, including Cortrosyn®, and we expect this trend to continue in the future.. Competition in the generic drug industry has also increased due to the proliferation of authorized generic pharmaceutical products. \"Authorized generics\" are generic pharmaceutical products that are introduced by brand companies, either directly or through partnering arrangements with other generic companies. Authorized generics are equivalent to the brand companies' brand name drugs, but are sold at relatively lower prices than the brand name drugs. An authorized generic product can be marketed during the 180-day exclusivity granted to the first manufacturer or manufacturers to submit an ANDA with a Paragraph IV certification for a generic version of the brand product. The sale of authorized generics adversely impacts the market share of a generic product that has been granted 180-day exclusivity. For example, with respect to our enoxaparin product, Sanofi currently markets an authorized generic enoxaparin product through its subsidiary, Winthrop. This is a significant source of competition for us because brand companies do not face any regulatory barriers to introducing authorized generics of their products. Because authorized generics may be sold during our exclusivity periods, if any, they can materially decrease the profits that we could otherwise receive as an exclusive marketer of a generic alternative. Such actions have the effect of reducing the potential market share and profitability of our generic products and may inhibit us from developing and introducing generic pharmaceutical products corresponding to certain brand name drugs.. Such competition can also result from the entry of generic versions of another product in the same therapeutic class as one of our drugs, or in another competing therapeutic class, or from the compulsory licensing of our products by governments, or from a general weakening of intellectual property laws in certain countries around the world.. If the market for a reference brand product, such as Lovenox®, significantly declines, sales or potential sales of our generic and biosimilar products and product candidates may suffer and our business would be materially impacted.. Proprietary products face competition on numerous fronts as technological advances are made or new products are introduced. As new products are approved that compete with the reference proprietary product to our generic products and generic or biosimilar product candidates, such as Lovenox®, which is the reference brand product for our enoxaparin product, sales of the reference brand products may be significantly and adversely impacted and may render the reference brand product obsolete. In addition, brand companies may pursue life cycle management strategies that also impact our generic products.. If the market for a reference brand product is impacted, we in turn may lose significant market share or market potential for our generic or biosimilar products and product candidates, and the value for our generic or biosimilar pipeline could be negatively impacted. As a result, our business, including our financial results and our ability to fund future discovery and development programs, would suffer.. Health care providers may not be receptive to our products, particularly those that incorporate our proprietary drug delivery platforms.. The commercial success of our products will depend on acceptance by health care providers and others that such products are clinically effective, affordable and safe. Our products utilizing our proprietary drug delivery technologies may not be accepted by health care providers and others. Factors that may materially affect market acceptance of our products include but are not limited to:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe relative therapeutic advantages and disadvantages of our products compared to competitive products;. 33. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe relative timing of commercial launch of our products compared to competitive products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe relative safety and efficacy of our products compared to competitive products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe product labeling approved by the FDA for our products and for competing products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe willingness of third party payers to reimburse for our prescription products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe willingness of pharmacy chains to stock our new products; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe willingness of consumers to pay for our products.. Our products, if successfully developed and commercially launched, will compete with both currently marketed products and new products launched in the future by other companies. Health care providers may not accept or utilize some of our products. Physicians and other prescribers may not be inclined to prescribe our prescription products unless our products demonstrate commercially viable advantages over other products currently marketed for the same indications. Pharmacy chains may not be willing to stock certain of our new products, and pharmacists may not recommend such products to consumers. Further, consumers may not be willing to purchase some of our products. If our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues or become profitable.. If we are unable to maintain our group purchasing organization relationships, our revenues could decline and future profitability could be jeopardized.. Many of the existing and potential customers for our products have combined to form group purchasing organizations in an effort to lower costs. Group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization's affiliated hospitals and other members. Group purchasing organizations provide end-users access to a broad range of pharmaceutical products from multiple suppliers at competitive prices and, in certain cases, exercise considerable influence over the drug purchasing decisions of such end-users. Hospitals and other end-users contract with the group purchasing organization of their choice for their purchasing needs. We currently derive, and expect to continue to derive, our revenue from end-user customers that are members of group purchasing organizations. Maintaining our strong relationships with these group purchasing organizations will require us to continue to be a reliable supplier, offer a broad product line, remain price competitive, comply with FDA regulations and provide high-quality products. Although our group purchasing organization pricing agreements are typically multi-year in duration, most of them may be terminated by either party with 60 or 90 days' notice. The group purchasing organizations with which we have relationships may have relationships with manufacturers that sell competing products, and such group purchasing organizations may earn higher margins from these competing products or combinations of competing products or may prefer products other than ours for other reasons. If we are unable to maintain our group purchasing organization relationships, sales of our products and revenue could decline.. Consolidation in the health care industry could lead to demands for price concessions or for the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our markets, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Because health care costs have risen significantly, numerous initiatives and reforms by legislatures, regulators and third-party payers to curb these cost increases have resulted in a trend in the health care industry to consolidate product suppliers and purchasers. As the health care industry consolidates, competition among suppliers to provide products to purchasers has become more intense. This in turn has resulted and will likely continue to result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations and large single accounts continue to use their market power to influence product pricing and purchasing decisions. As the U.S. payer market concentrates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives. This drive towards generic alternatives could adversely affect sales of our proprietary products and increase competition among generic manufacturers.. 34. Table of Contents. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our customer base.. A significant proportion of our sales are made to relatively few U.S. wholesalers and group purchasing organizations. These customers are continuing to undergo significant consolidation. Sales to three of these customers for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, accounted for approximately 78%, 64%, and 56% of our total net revenues, respectively. Such consolidation has provided and may continue to provide them with additional purchasing leverage, and consequently may increase the pricing pressures that we face.. Moreover, we are exposed to a concentration of credit risk as a result of this concentration among our customers. If one or more of our major customers experienced financial difficulties, the effect on us would be substantial. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our net sales and quarterly growth comparisons may also be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of retail chains, major distributors and other trade buyers, whether resulting from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors. In addition, because a significant portion of our U.S. revenues is derived from relatively few customers, any financial difficulties experienced by a single customer, or any delay in receiving payments from a single customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our business partners do not fulfill their obligations with respect to our distribution or collaboration agreements our revenues and our business will suffer.. Pursuant to certain distribution or collaboration agreements, the success of some of our products or product candidates also depends on the success of the collaboration with our business partners, who are responsible for certain aspects of researching, developing, marketing, distributing or commercializing our products or product candidates. If any such agreement were to be terminated in accordance with its terms, including due to a party's failure to perform its obligations or responsibilities under the agreement, revenues could be delayed or diminished from these products and our revenues and/or profit share for these products could be adversely impacted.. We depend upon our key personnel, the loss of whom could adversely affect our operations. If we fail to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our business could be materially harmed.. We depend to a significant degree on our key management employees, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Science Officer, Jack Y. Zhang; Chief Operating Officer and Chief Scientist, Mary Z. Luo; President, Jason B. Shandell; Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, William J. Peters; and Executive Vice President of Production, Rong Zhou. The loss of services from any of these persons may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product development or business objectives. Our officers all serve \"at will\" and we or they can terminate their employment with us at any time. We do not carry key man life insurance on any key personnel. Competition among pharmaceutical companies for qualified employees is intense, and the ability to attract and retain qualified individuals is critical to our success. We have experienced attrition among our executive officers in the past, although we do not believe that the departures of executive officers have had a materially adverse effect on our business. However, any future loss of key members of our organization, or any inability to continue to attract high-quality employees, may delay or prevent the achievement of major business objectives. Our productivity may be adversely affected if we do not integrate or train our new employees quickly and effectively.. Competition for highly-skilled personnel is often intense, especially in Southern California, where we have a substantial presence and need for highly-skilled personnel. We may not be successful in attracting, integrating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. Also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that we have improperly solicited, or that they have divulged proprietary or other confidential information, or that their former employers own their inventions or work product.. Because a portion of our manufacturing takes place in China, a significant disruption in the construction or operation of our manufacturing facility in China, political unrest in China, tariffs or changes in social, political and economic conditions or in laws, regulations and policies governing foreign trade could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We currently manufacture the starting material for Amphadase® and the API for Nitroprusside at our manufacturing. 35. Table of Contents. facility in China, and we plan to use this facility to manufacture several of the APIs for products in our pipeline. Additionally, we intend to continue to invest in the expansion of this manufacturing facility. Any disruption in construction of the facility or the inability of our manufacturing facility in China to produce adequate quantities of raw materials or APIs to meet our needs, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could impair our ability to operate our business. Furthermore, since this facility is located in China, we are exposed to the possibility of product supply disruption and increased costs in the event of changes in the policies of the Chinese government, political unrest or unstable economic conditions in China or due to the imposition of tariffs or other trade barriers or as a result of changes in social, political, and economic conditions or in laws, regulations, and policies governing foreign trade. The nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises by the Chinese government could result in the total loss of our investment in China. Any of these matters could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. These interruptions or failures could also impede commercialization of our product candidates and impair our competitive position.. We are exposed to risks related to our international operations and failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We have operations both inside and outside the U.S. For example, we have suppliers in Asia and Europe, and we own manufacturing facilities in Nanjing, China and Éragny-sur-Epte, France. As a result, a significant portion of our operations are conducted by and/or rely on entities outside the markets in which our products are sold, and, accordingly, we import a substantial number of products into such markets. We may, therefore, be denied access to our customers or suppliers or denied the ability to ship products from any of our sites as a result of a closing of the borders of the countries in which we sell our products, or in which our operations are located, due to economic, legislative, political and military conditions in such countries.. International operations are subject to a number of other inherent risks, and our future results could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequirements or preferences for domestic products or solutions, which could reduce demand for our products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiffering existing or future regulatory and certification requirements;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmanagement communication and integration problems resulting from cultural and geographic dispersion;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgreater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in enforcing contracts;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties and costs of staffing and managing non-U.S. operations;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttariffs and trade barriers, export regulations and other regulatory and contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in social, political, and economic conditions or in laws, regulations and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment both domestically as well as in other countries and jurisdictions into which we manufacture or sell our products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgreater risk of a failure of foreign employees to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including export and antitrust regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tuneven electricity supply that can negatively impact manufacturing;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\theightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent. 36. Table of Contents. sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, financial statements;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotentially adverse tax consequences, including multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpolitical and economic instability, political unrest and terrorism.. In addition, the expansion of our existing international operations, including our facility expansion in Nanjing, China, and entry into additional international markets, including our acquisition of a manufacturing business in Éragny-sur-Epte, France, have required and will continue to require significant management attention and financial resources. These and other factors could harm our ability to gain future revenues and, consequently, materially impact our business, operations results and financial condition.. We could be materially and adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, which often carry substantial penalties. We are currently expanding our operation abroad, including expanding our facilities in China, a country which has experienced governmental and private sector corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with certain local customs and practices. Our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or other inappropriate acts committed by our affiliates, employees or agents. Violations of complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our international growth efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our operating results. There can be no assurance that our partners, our employees, contractors, or agents will not subject us to potential claims or penalties. Any violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. Movements in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. A portion of our revenues, indebtedness and other liabilities and our costs are denominated in foreign currencies, including the Chinese Yuan and the Euro. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. Our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows may in the future be adversely affected by certain movements in exchange rates. From time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. However, any such hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. These risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. The Chinese government may exert substantial influence over the manner in which we conduct our business operations in China.. The Chinese government has exercised, and continues to exercise, substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to conduct our proposed manufacturing operations in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property ownership and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular. 37. Table of Contents. regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or entities, including our Chinese operating subsidiary, Amphastar Nanjing Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd., or ANP.. The Chinese legal system can be uncertain and could limit the legal protections available to us.. Unlike common law systems, such as the United States, the Chinese legal system is based on written statutes and decided legal cases have little precedential value. Our Chinese operating subsidiary, ANP, is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to foreign invested enterprises in particular. ANP is also subject to laws and regulations governing the formation and conduct of domestic Chinese companies. Relevant Chinese laws, regulations and legal requirements may change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections under law or contract. However, since Chinese administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contract terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and our level of legal protection in China compared to other legal systems. Such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts and intellectual property rights, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. In addition, confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the U.S. or other countries. Accordingly, future developments in the Chinese legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local requirements by national laws, could limit the legal protections available to us.. The United Kingdom's vote to leave the European Union will have uncertain effects and could adversely affect us.. On June 23, 2016, the electorate in the United Kingdom, or UK, voted in favor of leaving the European Union, or EU, (commonly referred to as the \"Brexit\"). Thereafter, on March 29, 2017, the country formally notified the EU of its intention to withdraw pursuant to Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. The withdrawal of the UK from the EU will take effect either on the effective date of the withdrawal agreement or, in the absence of agreement, two years after the UK provides a notice of withdrawal pursuant to the EU Treaty.. The effects of Brexit will depend on agreements the UK makes to retain access to EU markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. Brexit creates an uncertain political and economic environment in the UK and potentially across other EU member states for the foreseeable future, including during any period while the terms of Brexit are being negotiated and such uncertainties could impair or limit our ability to transact business in the member EU states.. Further, Brexit could adversely affect European and worldwide economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial markets, and the value of the Pound Sterling currency or other currencies, including the Euro.  We are exposed to the economic, market and fiscal conditions in the UK and the EU and to changes in any of these conditions. Depending on the terms reached regarding Brexit, it is possible that there may be adverse practical and/or operational implications on our business.. A significant amount of the regulatory regime that applies to us in the UK is derived from EU directives and regulations. For so long as the UK remains a member of the EU, those sources of legislation will (unless otherwise repealed or amended) remain in effect. However, Brexit could change the legal and regulatory framework within the UK where we operate and is likely to lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the UK determines which EU laws to replace or replicate. Consequently, no assurance can be given as to the impact of Brexit and, in particular, no assurance can be given that our operating results, financial condition and prospects would not be adversely impacted by the result.. We may be exposed to product liability claims and may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. Product liability claims might be made by patients, health care providers or others who sell or consume our products. These claims may be made even with respect to those products that possess regulatory approval for commercial sale.. Our reputation is the foundation of our relationships with physicians, patients, group purchasing organizations and other. 38. Table of Contents. customers. If we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues that could negatively impact sentiments toward us, our business could suffer. Our customers may have a number of concerns about the safety of our products whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research. These concerns may be increased by negative publicity, even if the publicity is inaccurate. Any negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, about the efficacy, safety or side effects of our products or product categories, whether involving us, a competitor or a reference drug, could materially reduce market acceptance of our products, cause consumers to seek alternatives to our products, result in product withdrawals and cause our stock price to decline. Negative publicity could also result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims have a basis in scientific fact.. We currently maintain a $10.0 million product liability insurance policy, which covers Amphastar, International Medication Systems, Ltd., or IMS, and Amphastar France Pharmaceuticals S.A.S., or AFP products, but our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all expenses or losses we may suffer from any product liability claims. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drug products that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business.. If serious adverse events or deaths are identified relating to any of our products once they are on the market, we may be required to withdraw our products from the market, which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues.. We are required to report to relevant regulatory authorities adverse events or deaths associated with our product candidates or approved products. Based on such events, regulatory authorities may withdraw their approvals of such products or take enforcement actions. We may be required to reformulate our products, and/or we may have to recall the affected products from the market and may not be able to reintroduce them into the market. Furthermore, our reputation in the marketplace may suffer and we may become the target of lawsuits, including class actions suits. Any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products and could have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial condition.. Any acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses may be difficult to integrate, could adversely affect our relationships with key customers and/or could result in significant charges to earnings.. We plan to regularly review potential acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses complementary to our business. Acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in integrating operations, personnel, technologies and products. If we are not able to successfully integrate our acquisitions, we may not obtain the advantages and synergies that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, our ability to develop and introduce new products and the market price of our stock. In addition, in connection with acquisitions, we could experience disruption in our business, technology and information systems, customer or employee base, including diversion of management's attention from our continuing operations. There is also a risk that key employees of companies that we acquire or key employees necessary to successfully commercialize technologies and products that we acquire may seek employment elsewhere, including with our competitors. Furthermore, there may be overlap between our products or customers and the companies that we acquire that may create conflicts in relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated businesses. If we are unable to successfully integrate technologies, products, businesses or personnel that we acquire, we could incur significant impairment charges or other adverse financial consequences.. Identifying, executing and realizing attractive returns on acquisitions is highly competitive and involves a high degree of uncertainty. We expect to encounter competition for potential target businesses from both strategic and financial buyers. Some of these competitors may be well established and have extensive experience in identifying and consummating business combinations. Some of these competitors may possess greater technical, human and other resources than us, and our financial resources may be relatively limited when contrasted with those of our competitors. We may lose acquisition opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure criteria for such acquisitions. If we are forced to match these criteria to make acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our acquisitions or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. In addition, target companies may not be willing to sell assets at valuations. 39. Table of Contents. which are attractive to us. Furthermore, the terms of our existing or future indebtedness may hinder or prevent us from making additional acquisitions of technologies, products or businesses. Because of these factors, we may not be able to consummate an acquisition on attractive terms, if at all.. We intend to conduct an extensive due diligence investigation for any business we consider acquiring. Intensive due diligence is often time consuming and expensive due to the operations, finance and legal professionals who may be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business which we acquire, we may not identify all material issues that are present inside a particular target business. If our due diligence fails to discover or identify material issues relating to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure the target business's operations or incur impairment or other charges that could result in losses to us.. Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, business combination accounting standards, we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. After we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcosts incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpairment of goodwill or intangible assets, including acquired in-process research and development;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tamortization of intangible assets acquired;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tidentification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, contingent purchase price consideration, income tax contingencies and other non-income tax contingencies, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcharges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-acquisition activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcharges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition.. A significant portion of these adjustments could be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. Such charges could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of the common stock to decline.. We may evaluate asset dispositions and other transactions that may impact our results of operations, and we may not achieve the expected results from these transactions.. From time to time, we may enter into agreements to dispose of certain assets. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to dispose of any such assets at any anticipated prices, or at all, or that any such sale will occur during any anticipated time frame. In addition, we may engage in business combinations, purchases of assets or contractual arrangements or joint ventures. Subject to the agreements governing our existing debt or otherwise, some of these transactions may be financed with our additional borrowings. We may suffer a loss of key employees, customers or. 40. Table of Contents. suppliers, loss of revenues, increases in costs or other difficulties in connection with these transactions. Other transactions may advance future cash flows from some of our businesses, thereby yielding increased short-term liquidity, but consequently resulting in lower cash flows from these operations over the longer term. The failure to realize the expected long-term benefits of any one or more of these transactions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. The Affordable Care Act and certain legislation and regulatory proposals may increase our costs of compliance and negatively impact our profitability over time.. In March 2010, former President Barack Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, which we refer to collectively as the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act made extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the United States. We expect that the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs resulting from the Affordable Care Act over time will have a negative effect on our expenses and profitability in the future. Furthermore, the Independent Payment Advisory Board created by the Affordable Care Act to reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending could potentially limit access to certain treatments or mandate price controls for our products. Moreover, expanded government investigative authority and increased disclosure obligations may increase the cost of compliance with new regulations and programs.. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act, and we expect that there will be additional challenges and amendments to the Affordable Care Act in the future. The Trump administration and members of the U.S. Congress have indicated that they may continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the Affordable Care Act. Most recently, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the Tax Act, was enacted, which, among other things, removes penalties for not complying with the individual mandate to carry health insurance. We do not currently know the extent to which any such changes may impact our business or financial condition, as well as the pharmaceutical industry as a whole. But, any changes to the Affordable Care Act are likely to have an impact on our results of operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot predict what other health care programs and regulations will ultimately be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the United States may have on our business.. In addition, there have been a number of other legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the pharmaceutical industry. For example, in November 2013, Congress passed the Drug Quality and Security Act, or the DQSA. The DQSA establishes federal pedigree tracking standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked at the lot level, preempts state drug pedigree requirements, and will eventually require all supply-chain stakeholders to participate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug track and trace system. The DQSA also establishes new requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third party logistics providers, including licensing requirements in states that had not previously licensed such entities. As a result of these and other new proposals, we may determine to change our current manner of operation, provide additional benefits or change our contract arrangements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Former President Barack Obama also signed into law the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act. The law and related agreements make several significant changes to the FFDCA and FDA's processes for reviewing marketing applications that could have a significant impact on the pharmaceutical industry, including, among other things, the following:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treauthorizes the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, which increases the amount of associated user fees, and, for certain types of applications, increases the expected time frame for FDA review of new drug applications, or NDAs;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpermanently reauthorizes and makes some revisions to the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and the Pediatric Research Equity Act, which provide for pediatric exclusivity and mandated pediatric assessments for certain types of applications, respectively;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trevises certain standards and requirements for FDA inspections of manufacturing facilities and the importation of drug products from foreign countries;. 41. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreates incentives for the development of certain antibiotic drug products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmodifies the standards for accelerated approval of certain new medical treatments;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpands the reporting requirements for potential and actual drug shortages;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequires the FDA to issue a report on, among other things, ensuring the safety of prescription drugs that have the potential for abuse;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequires the FDA to hold a public meeting regarding the potential rescheduling of drug products containing hydrocodone, which was held in October 2012; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequires electronic submission of certain marketing applications following the issuance of final FDA regulations.. The full impact on our business of the new laws is uncertain; however, we anticipate that it will have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Additionally, we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In the European Union, or EU, and some other international markets, the government provides health care at low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility or reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored health care system. This international system of price regulations may lead to inconsistent prices.. If significant additional reforms are made to the U.S. health care system, or to the health care systems of other markets in which we operate, those reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. Significant balances of intangible assets, including goodwill, are subject to impairment testing and may result in impairment charges, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. A significant amount of our total assets is related to goodwill and intangible assets. As of December 31, 2017, the value of our goodwill and intangible assets net of accumulated amortization was $45.1 million. Goodwill and other intangible assets are tested for impairment annually when events occur or circumstances change that could potentially reduce the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset. Impairment testing compares the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset to its carrying amount. Any future goodwill or other intangible asset impairment, if any, would be recorded in operating income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our outstanding loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility.. Our loan agreements are collateralized by substantially all of our presently existing and subsequently acquired personal property assets, and subject us to certain affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on our ability to transfer or dispose of assets, merge with or acquire other companies, make investments, pay dividends, incur additional indebtedness and liens and conduct transactions with affiliates. We are also subject to certain covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios and are required under certain conditions to make mandatory prepayments of outstanding principal. As a result of these covenants and ratios, we have certain limitations on the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be restricted from engaging in favorable business activities or financing future operations or capital needs until our current debt obligations are paid in full or we obtain the consent of our lenders, which we may not be able to obtain. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow or revenue to meet the financial covenants or pay the principal and interest on our debt, and in the past we have not been in compliance with certain financial covenants. In addition, upon the occurrence of an event of default, our lenders, among other things, can declare all indebtedness due and payable immediately, which would adversely impact our liquidity and reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. An event of default includes our failure to pay any amount due and payable under the loan agreements, the occurrence of a material adverse change in our business as defined in the loan agreements, our breach of any covenant in the loan agreements, subject to a grace period in some cases, or an involuntary insolvency proceeding. Additionally, a lender could exercise. 42. Table of Contents. its lien on substantially all of our assets and our future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to repay or refinance any such debt.. Global macroeconomic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business.. Our business is sensitive to general economic conditions, both inside and outside the U.S. Slower global economic growth, credit market crises, high levels of unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, government deficit reduction, sequestration and other austerity measures and other challenges affecting the global economy adversely affect us and our distributors, customers and suppliers. It is uncertain how long these effects will last, or whether economic and financial trends will worsen or improve. Such uncertain economic times may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations, financial condition and, if circumstances worsen, our ability to raise capital at reasonable rates. If slower growth in the global economy or in any of the markets we serve continues for a significant period, if there is significant deterioration in the global economy or such markets or if improvements in the global economy don't benefit the markets we serve, our business and financial statements could be adversely affected.. Additionally, as a result of any future global economic downturn, our third-party payers may delay or be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. Sales of our principal products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and private payer healthcare and insurance programs. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from government and/or private payer healthcare programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations.. Current economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our distributors, customers, suppliers and service providers to obtain the liquidity required to pay for our products, or otherwise to buy necessary inventory or raw materials, and to perform their obligations under agreements with us, which could disrupt our operations, and could negatively impact our business and cash flow. Although we make efforts to monitor these third parties' financial condition and their liquidity, our ability to do so is limited, and some of them may become unable to pay their bills in a timely manner, or may even become insolvent, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. These risks may be elevated with respect to our interactions with third parties with substantial operations in countries where current economic conditions are the most severe, particularly where such third parties are themselves exposed to sovereign risk from business interactions directly with fiscally-challenged government payers.. At the same time, significant changes and volatility in the financial markets, in the consumer and business environment, in the competitive landscape and in the global political and security landscape make it increasingly difficult for us to predict our revenues and earnings into the future. As a result, any revenue or earnings guidance or outlook which we have given or might give may be overtaken by events, or may otherwise turn out to be inaccurate. Though we endeavor to give reasonable estimates of future revenues and earnings at the time we give such guidance, based on then-current conditions, there is a significant risk that such guidance or outlook will turn out to be, or to have been, incorrect.. As a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain adequate internal controls and be able, on an annual basis, to provide an assertion as to the effectiveness of such controls. Failure to maintain adequate internal controls or to implement new or improved controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which was remediated in 2016. However, we cannot be certain that any control remediation efforts undertaken during 2016 will enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be evaluated frequently.. 43. Table of Contents. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act if we continue to take advantage of the exemptions contained in the JOBS Act. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Our remediation efforts may not enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future.. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determines in the future that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we could be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits or other adverse actions requiring us to incur defense costs, pay fines, make settlements or seek judgments, which may adversely affect investor perceptions and potentially result in a decline in our stock price.. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any future changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used or necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions or changes in accounting standards could lead to a restatement or revision to previously consolidated financial statements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as discussed in greater detail in the section titled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, provision for chargebacks and rebates, accruals for product returns, valuation of inventory, impairment of intangibles and long-lived assets, accounting for income taxes and share-based compensation. Furthermore, although we have recorded reserves for litigation related contingencies based on estimates of probable future costs, such litigation related contingencies could result in substantial further costs. Also, any new or revised accounting standards may require adjustments to previously issued financial statements. Any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our business and financial results.. Changes in income tax laws, tax rulings and other factors may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate and tax expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. The U.S. government has recently enacted the Tax Act, which includes significant changes to the taxation of business entities. These changes include, among others, a federal statutory rate reduction from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, the elimination or reduction of certain domestic deductions and credits, limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation, and a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of this tax reform is uncertain and is subject to developing interpretations of the provisions of the legislation, changes to certain estimates and amounts related to the earnings and profits of certain subsidiaries, and the filing of our tax returns. The final analysis of. 44. Table of Contents. the transition tax and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities will be completed as additional information becomes available, but no later than one year from the date of enactment.. In addition to income taxes in the United States, we are subject to income taxes in many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals.. In addition, tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as evidenced by the Tax Act. As new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied, our provision for income taxes may be affected. Recent changes to U.S. tax laws, including taxation of earnings outside of the U.S., the introduction of a base erosion anti-abuse tax and the disallowance of tax deductions for certain book expense, as well as changes to U.S. tax laws that may be enacted in the future, could impact the tax treatment of our earnings, as well as cash and cash equivalent balances we currently maintain. Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Additionally, increases in our effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by various taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. Counterfeit versions of our products could harm our patients and reputation.. Our industry has been increasingly challenged by the vulnerability of distribution channels to illegal counterfeiting and the presence of counterfeit products in a growing number of markets and over the Internet. Counterfeit products are frequently unsafe or ineffective, and can be potentially life-threatening. To distributors and patients, counterfeit products may be visually indistinguishable from the authentic version. Reports of adverse reactions to counterfeit drugs or increased levels of counterfeiting could materially affect patient confidence in the authentic product, and harm the business of companies such as ours. Additionally, it is possible that adverse events caused by unsafe counterfeit products would mistakenly be attributed to the authentic product. If a product of ours was the subject of counterfeits, we could incur substantial reputational and financial harm in the longer term.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our product development programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and the further development of our product candidates may be delayed.. In addition, we rely on complex information technology systems, including Internet-based systems, to support our supply chain processes as well as internal and external communications. The size and complexity of our systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown or interruption, whether due to computer viruses or other causes that may result in the loss of key information or the impairment of production and other supply chain processes. Such disruptions and breaches of security could adversely affect our business.. Cyber-attacks or other failures in our telecommunications or information technology systems, or those of our collaborators, third-party providers, distributors or other contractors, could result in information theft, data corruption and significant disruption of our business operations.. We, our collaborators, third-party providers, distributors and other contractors utilize information technology, or IT, systems and networks to process, transmit and store electronic information in connection with our business activities. As. 45. Table of Contents. use of digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks and attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and networks, have increased in frequency and sophistication. These threats pose a risk to the security of our collaborators', third-party providers', distributors' and other contractors' systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in preventing cyber-attacks or successfully mitigating their effects despite our security measures. Similarly, there can be no assurance that our collaborators, third-party providers, distributors and other contractors will be successful in protecting our clinical and other data that is stored on their systems. Any cyber-attack or destruction or loss of data could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for any of our product candidates could result in delays in our development and regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. In addition, we may suffer reputational harm or face litigation or adverse regulatory action as a result of cyber-attacks or other data security breaches and may incur significant additional expense to implement further data protection measures.. We or the third parties upon whom we depend may be adversely affected by earthquakes or other natural disasters and our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not adequately protect us from a serious disaster.. The facilities we use for our headquarters, laboratory and research and development activities are located in earthquake-prone areas of California. A significant percentage of the facilities we use for our manufacturing, packaging, warehousing, distribution and administration offices are also located in these areas. Earthquakes or other natural disasters could severely disrupt our operations, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If a natural disaster, power outage or other event occurred that prevented us from using all or a significant portion of our facilities, that damaged critical infrastructure, such as our manufacturing facilities, or that otherwise disrupted operations, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. The disaster recovery and business continuity plans we have in place currently are limited and are unlikely to prove adequate in the event of a serious disaster or similar event. We may incur substantial expenses as a result of the limited nature of our disaster recovery and business continuity plans.. Risks Relating to Regulatory Matters. The FDA approval process is time-consuming and complicated, and we may not obtain the FDA approval required for a product within the timeline we desire, or at all. Additionally, we may lose FDA approval and/or our products may become subject to foreign regulations.. The development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of generic and proprietary pharmaceutical products and biological products are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation in the U.S. and other countries. Satisfaction of all regulatory requirements, which typically takes years for drugs that have to be approved in ANDAs, NDAs, biological license applications, or BLAs, or biosimilar applications is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires the expenditure of substantial resources for research (including qualification of suppliers and their supplied materials), development, in vitro and in vivo (including nonclinical and clinical trials) studies, manufacturing process development and commercial scale up. Some of our products are drug-device combination products that are regulated as drug products by the FDA, with consultation from the FDA's Center for Device and Radiological Health. These combination products will require the submission of drug applications to the FDA. All of our products are subject to compliance with the FFDCA and/or the Public Health Service Act, or PHSA, and with the FDA's implementing regulations. Failure to adhere to applicable statutory or regulatory requirements by us or our business partners would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. In addition, in the event we are successful in developing product candidates for distribution and sale in other countries, we would become subject to regulation in such countries. Such foreign regulations and product approval requirements are expected to be time consuming and expensive as well.. We may encounter delays or agency rejections during any stage of the regulatory review and approval process based upon a variety of factors, including without limitation the failure to provide clinical data demonstrating compliance with the FDA's requirements for safety, efficacy and quality. Those requirements may become more stringent prior to submission of our applications for approval or during the review of our applications due to changes in the law or changes in FDA policy or the adoption of new regulations. After submission of an application, the FDA may refuse to file the application, deny approval of the application or require additional testing or data. The FDA can convene an Advisory. 46. Table of Contents. Committee to assist the FDA in examining specific issues related to the application. In February 2014, the FDA held a joint meeting of its Nonprescription Drugs Advisory Committee and its Pulmonary Allergy Drugs Advisory Committee, which we refer to as the Committee, to discuss the NDA for Primatene® Mist. The Committee voted 14 to 10 that the data in the NDA supported efficacy, but voted 17 to 7 that safety had not been established for the intended over-the-counter use. The Committee also voted 18 to 6 that the product did not have a favorable risk-benefit profile for the intended over-the-counter use, and individual Committee members provided recommendations for resolving their concerns. Although the FDA is not required to follow the recommendations of its advisory committees, it usually does. In May 2014, we received a CRL from the FDA, which requires additional non-clinical information, label revisions and follow-up studies (label comprehension, behavioral/human factors and actual use) to assess consumers' ability to use the device correctly to support approval of the product in the over-the-counter setting. We submitted a responsive NDA amendment in June 2016 and received a second CRL from the FDA in December 2016, which requires additional packaging and label revisions and follow-up studies to assess consumers' ability to use the product correctly to support approval in the over-the-counter setting. After several meetings with the FDA in 2017, we further revised our packaging and label and plan to perform another human factors study based on such revisions. In November 2017, we submitted our proposed protocol to the FDA. In March 2018, we received an Advice Letter from the FDA regarding our proposed protocol. Based on that feedback we plan to conduct an additional human factors study. Once we receive acceptable results from the study, we will resubmit the NDA. We intend to continue to work with the FDA to address their concerns in the CRL and bring Primatene® Mist back to the over-the-counter market. However, there can be no guarantee that any future amendment to our NDA will result in timely approval of the product or approval at all.. Under various user fee enactments, the FDA has committed to timelines for its review of NDAs, ANDAs, BLAs and biosimilar applications. However, the FDA's timelines described in its guidance on these statutes are flexible and subject to changes based on workload and other potential review issues that may delay the FDA's review of an application. Further, the terms of approval of any applications may be more restrictive than our expectations and could affect the marketability of our products.. The FDA also has the authority to revoke or suspend approvals of previously approved products for cause, to debar companies and individuals from participating in the approval process for ANDAs, to request recalls of allegedly violative products, to seize allegedly violative products, to obtain injunctions that may, among other things, close manufacturing plants that are not operating in conformity with cGMP and stop shipments of potentially violative products and to prosecute companies and individuals for violations of the FFDCA. In the event that the FDA takes any such action relating to our products or product candidates, such actions would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of clinical development. The results of earlier clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results and any product candidate we advance through clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials or receive regulatory approval.. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of our clinical development. Clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or preclinical studies. In addition, data obtained from trials and studies are susceptible to varying interpretations, and regulators may not interpret our data as favorably as we do, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Success in preclinical studies and early clinical trials does not ensure that subsequent clinical trials will generate the same or similar results or otherwise provide adequate data to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of a product candidate. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including those with greater resources and experience than us, have suffered significant setbacks in Phase 3 clinical trials, even after seeing promising results in earlier clinical trials.. In addition, the design of a clinical trial can determine whether its results will support approval of a product and flaws in the design of a clinical trial may not become apparent until the clinical trial is well-advanced. Further, clinical trials of potential products often reveal that it is not practical or feasible to continue development efforts. If any of our product candidates are found to be unsafe or lack efficacy, we will not be able to obtain regulatory approval for them and our business would be harmed.. In some instances, there can be significant variability in safety and/or efficacy results between different trials of the same product candidate due to numerous factors, including changes in trial protocols, differences in composition of the patient. 47. Table of Contents. populations, adherence to the dosing regimen and other trial protocols and the rate of dropout among clinical trial participants. Our clinical trials may not demonstrate consistent or adequate efficacy and safety to obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates. If we are unable to bring any of our current or future product candidates to market, or to acquire any marketed, previously approved products, our ability to create long-term stockholder value will be limited.. If clinical studies for our product candidates are unsuccessful or significantly delayed, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines, which would have an adverse impact on our business.. Some of our new drug candidates must be approved in NDAs based on clinical studies demonstrating safety and/or effectiveness. For these types of studies, we rely on our investigational teams, who mainly are medical experts working in multicenter hospitals, to execute our study protocols with our product candidates. As a result, we have less control over our development program than if we were to perform the studies entirely on our own. Third parties may not perform their responsibilities according to our anticipated schedule. Delays in our development programs could significantly increase our product development costs and delay product commercialization.. The commencement of clinical trials on our product candidates may be delayed for several reasons, including but not limited to delays in demonstrating sufficient pre-clinical safety required to obtain regulatory clearance to commence a clinical trial, reaching agreements on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, clinical trial sites and licensees, manufacturing and quality assurance release of a sufficient supply of a product candidate for use in our clinical trials, delays in recruiting sufficient subjects for a clinical trial and/or obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective clinical site. Once a clinical trial has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated by us or by regulatory authorities for a variety of reasons, including without limitation ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials, a determination by us or regulatory authorities that continuing a trial presents an unreasonable health risk to participants, failure to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements, lower than anticipated recruitment or retention rate of patients in clinical trials, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by regulatory authorities, the imposition of a clinical hold by the FDA, lack of adequate funding to continue clinical trials and/or negative or unanticipated results of clinical trials.. Patient enrollment, a significant factor in the time required to complete a clinical study, is affected by many factors, including the size and nature of the study subject population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the design of the clinical study, competing clinical studies and clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug being studied in relation to available alternatives, including without limitation therapies being investigated by other companies. Further, completion of a clinical study and/or the results of a clinical study may be adversely affected by failure to retain subjects who enroll in a study but withdraw due to, among other things, adverse side effects, lack of efficacy, improvement in condition before treatment has been completed or for personal issues or who fail to return for or complete post-treatment follow-up.. Changes in governmental regulations and guidance relating to clinical studies may occur and we may need to amend study protocols to reflect these changes. Protocol amendments may require us to resubmit protocols to institutional review boards for reexamination or renegotiate terms with contract research organizations and study sites and investigators, all of which may adversely impact the costs or timing of or our ability to successfully complete a trial.. Clinical trials required by the FDA for approval of our products may not produce the results we need to move forward in product development or to submit or obtain approval of an NDA. Success in pre-clinical testing and early phase clinical trials does not assure that late phase clinical trials will be successful. Even if the results of any future Phase 3 clinical trials are positive, we may have to commit substantial time and additional resources to conduct further pre-clinical and clinical studies before we can submit NDAs or obtain FDA approval for our product candidates.. Clinical trials are expensive and at times difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. Further, if participating subjects or patients in clinical studies suffer drug-related adverse reactions during the course of such trials, or if we or the FDA believes that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, we may suspend the clinical trials. Failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that would cause us to abandon clinical trials and/or require additional clinical studies relating to a. 48. Table of Contents. product candidate.. Even if our clinical trials and laboratory testing are completed as planned, their results may fail to provide support for approval of our products or for label claims that will make our products commercially viable.. Positive results in nonclinical testing and early phase clinical studies do not ensure that late phase clinical studies will be successful or that our product candidates will be approved by the FDA. To obtain FDA approval of our proprietary product candidates, we must demonstrate through nonclinical testing and clinical studies that each product is safe and effective for each proposed indication. Further, clinical study results frequently are susceptible to varying interpretations. Medical professionals, investors and/or regulatory authorities may analyze or weigh study data differently than we do. In addition, determining the value of clinical data typically requires application of assumptions and extrapolations to raw data. Alternative methodologies may lead to differing conclusions, including with respect to the safety or efficacy of our product candidates.. In addition, if we license to third parties rights to develop our product candidates in other geographic areas or for other indications, we may have limited control over nonclinical testing or clinical studies that may be conducted by such third-party licensees in those territories or for those indications. If data from third-party testing identifies a safety or efficacy concern, such data could adversely affect our or another licensee's development of such product.. There is significant risk that our products could fail to show anticipated results in nonclinical testing and/or clinical studies and, as a result, we may elect to discontinue the development of a product for a particular indication or altogether. A failure to obtain requisite regulatory approvals or to obtain approvals of the scope requested may delay or preclude us from marketing our products or limit the commercial use of the products, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The novel use of HFA for any of our product candidates, or any of our other product candidates requiring novel particle engineering, may not receive regulatory approval, and without regulatory approval we will not be able to market our product candidates.. We are engaging in particle engineering for certain product candidates, including the use of HFA for our Primatene® Mist product candidate. With respect to Primatene® Mist, we have chosen to develop a formulation of the product candidate that will use HFAs as a propellant because of an FDA-mandated phase-out of drugs utilizing CFCs as propellants. Although HFAs have been used in other settings, using HFAs as a propellant in an epinephrine inhalation product is a novel use, and there is no guarantee that we will obtain regulatory approval or, upon commercialization, market acceptance of this product. In addition to Primatene® Mist, we are similarly engaging in particle engineering for additional product candidates and, similarly, there is no guarantee that we will obtain regulatory approval or, upon commercialization, market acceptance of these products.. The development of a product candidate and issues relating to its approval and marketing are subject to extensive regulations by the FDA in the U.S. and regulatory authorities in other countries, with regulations differing from country to country. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the U.S. until we receive approval of an NDA from the FDA. NDA approvals may require extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to establish the product candidate's safety and effectiveness for each desired indication. NDAs must include significant information regarding the chemistry, manufacturing and controls for the product. Obtaining approval of an NDA is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and we may not be successful in obtaining approval. If we submit an NDA to the FDA, the FDA must decide whether to accept or reject the submission for filing. Any submissions may not be accepted for filing and review by the FDA. Even if a product is approved, the FDA may limit the indications for which the product may be marketed, require extensive warnings on the product labeling or require additional expensive and time-consuming post-approval clinical trials or reporting as conditions of approval. Regulators of other countries and jurisdictions have their own procedures for approval of product candidates with which we must comply prior to marketing in those countries or jurisdictions. Obtaining regulatory approval for marketing of a product candidate in one country does not necessarily ensure that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval in any other country.. In addition, delays in approvals or rejections of marketing applications in the U.S. or other countries may be based upon many factors, including regulatory requests for additional analyses, reports, data, preclinical studies and clinical trials,. 49. Table of Contents. regulatory questions regarding different interpretations of data and results, changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and the emergence of new information regarding our product candidates or other products. Also, regulatory approval for any of our product candidates may be withdrawn.. We also have plans to develop synthetic APIs. Our ongoing trials and studies may not be successful or regulators may not agree with our conclusions regarding the preclinical studies and clinical trials we have conducted to date or approve the use of such synthetic APIs.. If we are unable to obtain approval from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for our product candidates or synthetic APIs, we will not be able to market such product candidates and our ability to achieve profitability may be materially impaired.. A  fast track designation by the regulatory agencies, even if granted for any of our product candidates, may not lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process and does not increase the likelihood that our product candidates will receive marketing approval.. We do not currently have fast track designation for any of our product candidates. If a drug is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the drug demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this condition, the drug sponsor may apply for fast track designation. The FDA has broad discretion whether or not to grant this designation. Even if we believe a particular product candidate is eligible for this designation, we cannot assure you that the FDA would decide to grant it. Even if we do receive fast track designation, we may not experience a faster development process, review or approval compared to conventional procedures adopted by the FDA. In addition, the FDA may withdraw fast track designation if they believe that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program or if a competitor's product candidate is approved. For example, we were granted a fast track designation for our intranasal naloxone product, but this designation was withdrawn after a competitor's intranasal naloxone was approved. Many drugs that have received fast track designation have failed to obtain FDA approval.. The commercial success of our NDA product candidates will depend in significant measure on the label claims that the FDA approves for such products.. The scientific foundation of our NDA products will be based on our various proprietary technologies and the commercial success of these product candidates will depend in significant measure upon our ability to obtain FDA approval of labeling describing such products' expected features or benefits. Failure to achieve FDA approval of product labeling containing adequate information on features or benefits will prevent or substantially limit our advertising and promotion of such features in order to differentiate our proprietary technologies from those products that already exist in the market. This failure would have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our ANDA products are also subject to FDA approval of their labeling.. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approval for our generic products, state pharmacy boards or state agencies may conclude that our products are not substitutable at the pharmacy level for the reference listed drug. If our generic products are not substitutable at the pharmacy level for their reference listed drugs, this could materially reduce sales of our products and our business would suffer.. Although the FDA may determine that a generic product is therapeutically equivalent to a brand product and indicate this therapeutic equivalence by providing it with an \"A\" rating in the FDA's Orange Book, this designation is not binding on state pharmacy boards or state agencies. As a result, in states that do not deem our product candidates substitutable at the pharmacy level, physicians may be required to specifically prescribe our product or a generic product alternative in order for our product to be dispensed. Should this occur with respect to one of our generic product candidates, it could materially reduce sales in those states, which would substantially harm our business.. Our investments in biosimilar products may not result in products that are approved by the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities and, even if approved by such authorities, may not result in commercially successful products.. We plan to build on our existing platforms to produce biosimilar products in the future. In 2010, Congress amended the. 50. Table of Contents. PHSA to create an abbreviated approval pathway for follow-on biologics. This approval pathway is available for \"biosimilar\" products, which are products that are highly similar to previously approved biologics notwithstanding minor differences in inactive components. The process for bringing a biosimilar product to market is uncertain and may be drawn out for an extended period of time. The FDA has not yet promulgated regulations governing this process and only nine biosimilar applications have been approved as of December 31, 2017. Approval of biosimilar applications may be delayed by exclusivity on the BLA for the reference product for up to 12 years. Biosimilar applicants are also subjected to a patent resolution process that will require biosimilar applicants to share the contents of their application and information concerning its manufacturing processes with counsel for the company holding the BLA for the reference drug and to engage in a patent litigation process that could delay or prevent the commercial launch of a product for many years.. Biosimilar products are not presumed to be substitutable for the reference drug under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, or BPCIA. Biosimilar applicants must seek a separate FDA determination that they are \"interchangeable\" with the reference drug, meaning that they can be expected to produce the same clinical result in any given patient without an increase in risk due to switching from the brand product. None of the nine biosimilar products that have been approved by the FDA have been approved as \"interchangeable\" and therefore, are not substitutable for the referenced drug. The statutory standards for determining biosimilarity and interchangeability are broad and uncertain, and the FDA has broad discretion to determine the nature and extent of product characterization, nonclinical testing and clinical testing on a product-by-product basis.. Products approved based on biosimilarity without an FDA determination of interchangeability may not be substitutable at the retail pharmacy level. Some states have passed laws limiting pharmacy substitution to biosimilar products that the FDA has determined to be interchangeable, as well as restrictions on the substitution of interchangeable biosimilar products. These restrictions include, among other things, requirements for informing the patient and the prescribing physician of the substitution or proposed substitution, authority for the prescribing physician and the patient to preclude substitution and recordkeeping requirements. There is no certainty that other states will not impose similar restrictions or that states will not impose further restrictions or preclude substitution of interchangeable biosimilar products entirely.. Our competitive advantage in this area will depend on our success in demonstrating to the FDA that platform technology provides a level of scientific assurance that facilitates determinations of interchangeability, reduces the need for expensive clinical or other testing and raises the scientific quality requirements for our competitors to demonstrate that their products are highly similar to a brand product. Our ability to succeed will depend in part on our ability to invest in new programs and develop data in a timeframe that enables the FDA to consider our approach as the FDA begins to implement the new law. BLA holders will develop strategies and precedents for delaying or impeding approvals of biosimilar products and determinations of interchangeability. For example, the lengthy 12-year exclusivity protection provides the BLA holder for the reference drug with an opportunity to develop and replace its original product with a modified product that may avoid a determination of interchangeability and that may qualify for an additional 12-year marketing exclusivity period, reducing the potential opportunity for substitution at the retail pharmacy level for interchangeable biosimilars. As brand and biosimilar companies gain greater understanding of and experience with the new regulatory pathway, we expect to see new and unexpected company strategies, FDA decisions and court decisions that will pose unexpected challenges that will prevent, delay or make more difficult biosimilar approvals. As an example, there is a currently pending Citizen Petition filed with the FDA that argues that approving a biosimilar that relies on a reference product approved under a BLA submitted prior to passage of the BPCIA would constitute a taking under the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution that requires just compensation. The Citizen Petition requests that the FDA not accept for filing, file, approve, discuss or otherwise take any action with regard to any investigational new drug application or BLA for a product for which the reference product BLA was submitted prior to passage of the BPCIA. Should this petition be granted, there would be far fewer approved biologics that could serve as reference products for biosimilar applications, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business.. In addition, the BPCIA was passed as part of the Affordable Care Act. If the Affordable Care Act is amended or is repealed with respect to the biosimilar approval pathway, our opportunity to develop biosimilars (including interchangeable biologics) could be materially impaired and our business could be materially and adversely affected.. 51. Table of Contents. Some of our products are used with drug delivery or companion diagnostic devices which have their own regulatory, manufacturing, reimbursement and other risks.. Some of our products or product candidates may be used in combination with a drug delivery device, such as an injector, inhaler or other delivery system. Although the drug delivery devices we currently use in our products and product candidates are provided by third parties, we have entered into collaboration agreements with various medical device manufacturers to develop drug delivery systems to be used for our pipeline products. These drug-device combination products are particularly complex, expensive and time-consuming to develop due to the number of variables involved in the final product design, including ease of patient and doctor use, establishing clinical efficacy, reliability and cost of manufacturing, regulatory approval requirements and standards and other important factors. We will be responsible for any regulatory filings arising from this collaboration and, although we have significant in-house and external regulatory expertise, we have never prepared or submitted an NDA to the FDA for a drug-device combination product. Our product candidates intended for use with such drug delivery, or expanded indications that we may seek for our products used with such devices, may not be approved or may be substantially delayed in receiving approval if the devices do not gain and/or maintain their own regulatory approvals or clearances. Where approval of the drug product and device is sought under a single application, the increased complexity of the review process may delay approval.. Some of the drug delivery devices utilize in our products and product candidates are provided by single source unaffiliated third-party companies. We are dependent on the sustained cooperation and effort of those third-party companies both to supply the devices and, in some cases, to conduct the studies required for approval or other regulatory clearance of the devices. We are also dependent on those third-party companies continuing to maintain such approvals or clearances once they have been received. Failure of third-party companies to supply the devices, to successfully complete studies on the devices in a timely manner, or to obtain or maintain required approvals or clearances of the devices could result in increased development costs, delays in or failure to obtain regulatory approval and delays in product candidates reaching the market or in gaining approval or clearance for expanded labels for new indications. We filed a Field Alert Report for enoxaparin in June 2013, as required by the FDA for certain quality issues with safety implications, because the product did not meet functionality criteria. The needle-shielding component was breaking during shipping, preventing correct administration of the medication. While the specific issues related to this Field Alert Report were resolved, we may experience similar issues in the future. In addition, loss of regulatory approval or clearance of a device that is used with our product may result in the removal of our product from the market.. The drug delivery devices used with our products are also subject to many of the same reimbursement risks and challenges to which our products are subject. A reduction in the availability of, or the coverage and/or reimbursement for, drug delivery devices used with our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations.. If pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of generics through their legislative, regulatory and/or other efforts, our sales of generic products may suffer.. Many pharmaceutical companies producing proprietary drugs have increasingly used state and federal legislative and regulatory means to delay, impede and/or prevent generic competition. These efforts have included but are not limited to the following:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaking changes to the formulation of their product and arguing that potential generic competitors must demonstrate bioequivalence and/or comparable abuse-resistance to the reformulated brand product;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpursuing new patents for existing products which may be granted immediately prior to the expiration of earlier patents, which could extend patent protection for additional years or otherwise delay the launch of generics;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tselling the brand product as an authorized generic, either by the brand company directly, through an affiliate or by a marketing partner;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tusing the FDA's Citizen Petition process to request amendments to FDA standards or otherwise delay generic drug approvals;. 52. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenging FDA denials of Citizen Petitions in court and seeking injunctive relief to reverse approval of generic drug applications;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseeking changes to standards in the U.S. Pharmacopeia/National Formulary, which are compendial drug standards that are recognized by industry and, in some instances, are enforceable under the FFDCA;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tattempting to use the legislative and regulatory process to have drugs reclassified or rescheduled by the DEA;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tusing the legislative and regulatory process to set standards and requirements for abuse deterrent formulations that are patented or that will otherwise impede or prevent generic competition;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseeking special patent-term extensions through amendments to non-related federal legislation;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tengaging in initiatives to enact state legislation that would restrict the substitution of certain generic drugs, including products that we are developing;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tentering into agreements with pharmacy benefit management companies that block the dispensing of generic products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseeking patents on methods of manufacturing certain API;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsettling patent lawsuits with generic companies in a manner that leaves the patent as an obstacle for approval of other companies' generic drugs;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsettling patent litigation with generic companies in a manner that avoids forfeiture of or otherwise protects or extends the exclusivity period;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproviding medical education or other information to physicians, third-party payers and federal and state regulators that take the position that certain generic products are inappropriate for approval or for substitution after approval;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseeking state law restrictions on the substitution of generic and biosimilar products at the pharmacy level without the instruction or permission of a physician; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseeking federal or state regulatory restrictions on the use of the same non-proprietary name as the reference brand product for a biosimilar or interchangeable biologic.. If pharmaceutical companies or other third parties are successful in limiting the use of generic products through these or other means, our sales of generic products may decline. If we experience a material decline in generic product sales, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will suffer.. Our revenues may be adversely affected if we fail to obtain insurance coverage or adequate reimbursement for our products from third-party payers and administrators.. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products may depend in part on the availability of reimbursement for and insurance coverage of our prescription products from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payers and administrators, including Medicaid and Medicare. Third-party payers and administrators, including state Medicaid programs and Medicare, have been challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products. Government and other third-party payers increasingly are limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for some of our products candidates. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care may limit our commercial opportunity. If government and other third-party payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for certain of our products, health care providers may not prescribe them or patients may ask their health care providers to prescribe competing products with more favorable reimbursement.. 53. Table of Contents. Managed care organizations and other private insurers frequently adopt their own payment or reimbursement reductions. Consolidation among managed care organizations has increased the negotiating power of these entities. Private third-party payers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. While these approaches generally favor generic products over brands, generic competition is stronger. Our existing products and our product candidates include proprietary products and generic products. Failure to obtain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue. In addition to formulary tier co-pay differentials, private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for proprietary pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. Private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as requiring prior authorization for a proprietary product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a proprietary medicine. We do not currently have any managed care organization agreements and do not intend to have managed care organization agreements in the future.. We must manufacture our product at our facilities in conformity with cGMP regulations; failure to maintain compliance with cGMP regulations may prevent or delay the manufacture or marketing of our products or product candidates and may prevent us from gaining approval of our products.. All of our products and product candidates for use in clinical studies must be manufactured, packaged, labeled and stored in accordance with cGMP. For our approved products, modifications, enhancements, or changes in manufacturing processes and sites may require supplemental FDA approval, which may be subject to a lengthy application process or which we may be unable to obtain.. All facilities of Amphastar and our subsidiaries are periodically subject to inspection by the FDA and other governmental entities, and operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if the FDA or another governmental entity deems such inspections as unsatisfactory. In addition, our secondary heparin supplier in China has yet to be inspected by the FDA. Products manufactured in our facilities must be made in a manner consistent with cGMP or similar standards in each territory in which we manufacture. Compliance with such standards requires substantial expenditures of time, money and effort in such areas as production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Failure to comply with cGMP or with other state or federal requirements may result in unanticipated compliance expenditures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, suspension of review of applications submitted for approval of our product candidates, termination of ongoing research, disqualification of data derived from studies on our products and/or enforcement actions such as recall or seizure of products, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions of the company and company officials. Any suspension of production or distribution would require us to engage contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture our products or to accept a hiatus in marketing our products. Any contract manufacturing organization we engage will require time to learn our methods of production and to scale up to full production of our products. Any delays caused by the transfer of manufacturing to a contract manufacturing organization may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, any contract manufacturing organization that we engage will be subject to the same cGMP regulations as us, and any failure on their part to comply with FDA or other governmental regulations will result in similar consequences.. Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations, with which compliance is costly and which exposes us to penalties for non-compliance.. Our business, products and product candidates are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety and the use, management, storage and disposal of hazardous substances, waste and other regulated materials. Because we own and operate real property, various environmental laws also may impose liability on us for the costs of cleaning up and responding to hazardous substances that may have been released on our property, including releases unknown to us. These environmental laws and regulations also could require us to pay for environmental remediation and response costs at third-party locations where we dispose of or recycle hazardous substances. The costs of complying with these various environmental requirements, as they now exist or as may be altered in the future, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, as a result of environmental concerns about the use of CFCs, the FDA issued a final rule on January 16, 2009 that required the phase-out of the CFC version of our Primatene® Mist product by December 31, 2011. This phase out caused us to halt sales of the CFC version of our Primatene® Mist product subsequent to. 54. Table of Contents. December 31, 2011 and write off our inventory for the product, which had an adverse effect on our financial results.. We also must comply with data protection and data privacy requirements. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations regarding privacy, security and protection of employee data could result in higher compliance and technology costs for us, as well as significant fines, penalties and damage to our global reputation and our brand as a result of non-compliance.. Our products may be subject to federal and state laws and certain initiatives relating to cost control, which may decrease our profitability.. In the U.S., we expect there may be federal and state proposals for cost controls. We expect that increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. In addition, we are required to pay rebates to states, which are generally calculated based on the prices for our products that are paid by state Medicaid programs. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we charge, and increase the rebate amounts that we must provide, for any of our products in the future. Further, cost control initiatives could impair our ability to commercialize our products and our ability to earn significant revenues from commercialization. In the U.S., all of our pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. Such pressures have increased as a result of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries. To date, we do not believe that federal and state cost control initiatives have had a direct impact on the pricing of our products, but they could have such an impact in the future. Similarly, rebate obligations have been relatively stable, but if such obligations increase, our revenue could be adversely affected. In addition, if the MMA or the Affordable Care Act were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, managed care organizations, as well as Medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. Some states have implemented, and other states are considering, price controls or patient access constraints under the Medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would affect rebate levels and apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid-eligible. Further, there continue to be legislative proposals to amend U.S. laws to allow the importation into the U.S. of prescription drugs, which can be sold at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries. In addition to well-documented safety concerns, such as the increased risk of counterfeit products entering the supply chain, such importation could impact pharmaceutical prices in the U.S.. Some of our products are marketed without FDA approval and may be subject to enforcement actions by the FDA.. A number of our prescription products are marketed without FDA approval. These products, like many other prescription drugs on the market that FDA has not formally evaluated as being effective, contain active ingredients that were first marketed prior to the enactment of the FFDCA. The FDA has assessed these products in a program known as the \"Prescription Drug Wrap-Up\" and has stated that these drugs cannot be lawfully marketed unless they comply with certain \"grandfather\" exceptions to the definition of \"new drug\" in the FFDCA. These exceptions have been strictly construed by FDA and by the courts, and the FDA has stated that it is unlikely that any of the unapproved prescription drugs on the market, including certain of our drugs, qualify for the exceptions. At any time, the FDA may require that some or all of our unapproved prescription drugs be submitted for approval and may direct that we recall these products and/or cease marketing the products until they are approved. The FDA may also take enforcement actions based on our marketing of these unapproved products, including but not limited to the issuance of an untitled letter or a warning letter, and a judicial action seeking injunction, product seizure and civil or criminal penalties. The enforcement posture could change at any time and our ability to market such drugs could terminate with little or no notice. Moreover, if our competitors seek and obtain approval and market FDA-approved prescription products that compete against our unapproved prescription products, we would be subject to a higher likelihood that FDA may seek to take action against our unapproved products. Such competitors have brought and may bring claims against us alleging unfair competition or related claims.. As a result of our meetings with the FDA in 2009, we decided to discontinue all of our products that were subject to the Prescription Drug Wrap-Up program, with the exception of epinephrine in vial form. These products were all produced at our subsidiary, IMS. During the third quarter of 2010, the FDA requested that we reintroduce several of the withdrawn products to cope with a drug shortage, while we prepared and filed applications for approval of the products. Between. 55. Table of Contents. August and October, 2010, we reintroduced atropine, calcium chloride, morphine, dextrose, epinephrine prefilled syringes, epinephrine injection, USP vial, and sodium bicarbonate injections.. In February 2017, the FDA requested that we discontinue the manufacturing and distribution of our epinephrine injection, USP vial product, which had been marketed under the \"grandfather\" exception to the FDA's \"Prescription Drug Wrap-Up\" program. We discontinued selling this product in the second quarter of 2017. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, we recognized $17.8 million, $18.6 million, and $7.8 million in net revenues for the sale of this product, respectively. A charge of $3.3 million was included in the cost of revenues in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2016 to adjust the related inventory and firm purchase commitment to their net realizable value due to the anticipated discontinuation of the product.. In September 2017, the FDA granted approval of our ANDA for Sodium Bicarbonate injection.. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, we recorded net revenues of $35.4 million, $27.6 million, and $27.8 million, respectively, from the unapproved products currently on the market: atropine, calcium chloride, morphine, dextrose and epinephrine prefilled syringes. We have filed three ANDAs and are preparing additional applications with respect to the remaining unapproved products in order to mitigate all risk associated with the marketing of unapproved drug products. In the interim, we continue to operate within the FDA Compliance Policy Guide, CPG Sec. 440.100 Marketed New Drugs Without Approved NDAs and ANDAs.. Our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicare and/or Medicaid drug rebate programs and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions that could change as a result of new business circumstances, new regulatory guidance or advice of legal counsel. Any determination of failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and the market value of our common stock could decline.. The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement and rebates and other governmental programs are complex. Because our processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve, and will continue to involve, subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. In addition, they are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in material changes.. In January, 2016, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, issued a final rule that helped to clarify many of the changes made to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program by the Affordable Care Act. The final rule attempts to provide drug manufacturers with the regulatory guidance necessary to ensure proper calculation and reporting of drug product and pricing information. Specifically, the final rule attempts to clarify the definition of what constitutes a manufacturer's \"best price\" and aligns it, where appropriate, to the definition of \"Average Manufacturer Price\", which is used to calculate drug rebates. Notwithstanding the final rule's guidance, a number of state and federal government agencies will continue to conduct investigations of manufacturers' reporting practices with respect to Average Wholesale Prices, or AWP, in which reports of inflated AWP may lead to excessive payments for prescription drugs.. Any governmental agencies that have commenced, or may commence, an investigation of our business relating to the sales, marketing, pricing, quality or manufacturing of pharmaceutical products could seek to impose, based on a claim of violation of fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties and possible exclusion from federal health care programs including Medicare and/or Medicaid. Some of the applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. Furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments  -  and even in the absence of any such ambiguity  -  a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, and may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions. Any such penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. Proposed FDA labeling rules could result in additional liability risks for our products.. The FDA has proposed allowing generic drug manufacturers to independently update product labeling to reflect newly. 56. Table of Contents. discovered safety data, which could result in failure-to-warn suits. This could increase our medical monitoring requirement and labeling obligations and potentially increase our liability risk for our products.. We may be subject to enforcement action if we engage in the off-label promotion of our products.. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with the FFDCA and other applicable laws and regulations, including restraints and prohibitions on the promotion of off-label, or unapproved, use. Physicians may prescribe our products for off-label use without regard to these prohibitions, as the FFDCA does not restrict or regulate a physician's choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including but not limited to the issuance of an untitled letter or warning letter, and a judicial action seeking injunction, product seizure and civil or criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or non-U.S. enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products could be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management's attention, result in substantial damage awards against us and harm our reputation.. The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and pharmaceutical companies are subject to various federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the federal False Claims Act.. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe federal healthcare programs' anti-kickback law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfederal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe FFDCA and similar laws regulating advertisement and labeling;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits corrupt payments, gifts or transfers of value to non-U.S. officials; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnon-U.S. and U.S. state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers.. The federal false claims laws have been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers or formulary managers on the other. Although there are several statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing or. 57. Table of Contents. recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Most states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and federal false claims laws, which apply to items and services covered by Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. Administrative, civil and criminal sanctions may be imposed under these federal and state laws.. Further, the Affordable Care Act, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. A person or entity can now be found guilty under the Affordable Care Act without actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the Affordable Care Act provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Possible sanctions for violation of these anti-kickback laws include monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.. To enforce compliance with the federal laws, the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, has increased its scrutiny of interactions between healthcare companies and healthcare providers, which has led to a number of investigations, prosecutions, convictions and settlements in the healthcare industry. Dealing with investigations can be time- and resource-consuming and can divert management's attention from the business. Additionally, if a healthcare provider settles an investigation with the DOJ or other law enforcement agencies, we may be forced to agree to additional onerous compliance and reporting requirements as part of a consent decree or corporate integrity agreement. Any such investigation or settlement could increase our costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business.. Over the past few years, a number of pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of promotional and marketing activities, such as: providing free trips, free goods, sham consulting fees and grants and other monetary benefits to prescribers; reporting inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in off-label promotion; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program to reduce liability for Medicaid rebates.. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians for marketing. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs, along with the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with different compliance and/or reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions increase the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements.. If the activities of any of our business partners are found to be in violation of these laws or any other federal and state fraud and abuse laws, they may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of its activities with regard to the commercialization of our products, which could harm the commercial success of our products and materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have implemented numerous risk mitigation measures to comply with such regulations in this complex operating environment, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively mitigate all operational risks. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws, all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws and/or all requirements of the corporate integrity agreement. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter or discontinue one or more of our business practices to be in compliance with these laws. If we fail to adequately mitigate our operational risks or if we or our agents fail to comply with any of those regulations, laws and/or requirements, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. Such occurrences could have a material and adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations.. The scope and enforcement of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change in the current environment of healthcare reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. Federal or state regulatory. 58. Table of Contents. authorities might challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any such challenge could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with these laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. Any state or federal regulatory review of us or the third parties with whom we contract, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time-consuming.. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property.. In addition to obtaining FDA approval for our generic and proprietary drug candidates, our success also depends on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for new products developed utilizing our technologies, in the U.S. and in other countries, and to enforce these patents. The patent positions of pharmaceutical firms, including us, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. Any of our patent claims in our approved and pending non-provisional and provisional patent applications relating to our technologies may not be issued or, if issued, any of our existing and future patent claims may not be held valid and enforceable against third-party infringement. Moreover, any patent claims relating to our technologies may not be sufficiently broad to protect our products. In addition, issued patent claims may be challenged, potentially invalidated, or potentially circumvented. Our patent claims may not afford us protection against our competitors. We currently have a number of U.S. and foreign patents issued. However, issuance of a patent is not conclusive evidence of its validity or enforceability. We may not receive patents for any of our pending patent applications or any patent applications that we may file in the future and our issued patents may not be upheld if challenged.. In March 2013, the U.S. transitioned to a first inventor to file system in which, assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, the first inventor to file a patent application is entitled to receive a patent (rather than the first to invent as was the case under prior U.S. law). Accordingly, it is possible that potentially invalidating prior art may become available in between the time that we develop an invention and file a patent application that covers the invention. In addition, we may be subject to a third-party pre-issuance submission of prior art to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter parties review or interference proceedings challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate our patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third party patent rights.. Past enforcement of intellectual property rights in countries outside the U.S., including China in particular, has been limited or non-existent. Future enforcement of patents and proprietary rights in many other countries will likely be problematic or unpredictable. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a similar patent in another country. Claim interpretation and infringement laws vary by nation, so the extent of any patent protection is uncertain and may vary in different jurisdictions.. We also rely on, or intend to rely on, our trademarks, trade names and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors and have registered or applied to register our own trademarks. However, our trademark applications may not be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our product, which could result in loss of brand recognition and could require us to devote significant resources to advertising and marketing these new brands. Further, our competitors may infringe our trademarks or we may not have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks.. We may become involved in patent litigations or other intellectual property proceedings relating to our future product approvals, which could result in liability for damages or delay or stop our development and commercialization efforts.. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by significant litigation and other proceedings regarding patents, patent applications and other intellectual property rights. The situations in which we may become parties to such litigation or proceedings may include any third parties initiating litigation claiming that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights; in such case, we will need to defend against such proceedings. For example, the field. 59. Table of Contents. of generic pharmaceuticals is characterized by frequent litigation that occurs in connection with generic pharmaceutical companies filing ANDAs, Paragraph IV certifications and attempting to invalidate the patents of the proprietary reference drug. Any non-generic products that we successfully develop may be subject to such challenge by third parties. As a generic pharmaceutical company, we also expect to file ANDAs, Paragraph IV certifications and to attempt to invalidate patents of third party reference drugs for which we seek to develop generic versions.. The costs of resolving any patent litigation or other intellectual property proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Many of our potential competitors will be able to sustain the cost of such litigation and proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other intellectual property proceedings may also consume significant management time.. In the event that a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be costly, difficult and time-consuming. Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be expensive and time-consuming and could divert our management's attention. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patent or other intellectual property rights against a challenge. If we are unsuccessful in enforcing and protecting our intellectual property rights and protecting our products, it could materially harm our business.. For example, we have been involved in patent litigation related to our sales of enoxaparin, and there is an ongoing related antitrust litigation. For further details, see the section titled Litigation in Note 17 in the accompanying \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The protracted litigations involved  -  and may continue to involve  -  large legal expenses and the diversion of management's time and effort away from the business. Any future adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses  -  whether these litigations or in other litigations  -  could result in substantial monetary damage awards and could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition.. There may also be situations where we use our business judgment and decide to market and sell products, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) have not been finally resolved by the courts, which situation is commonly referred to as an at-risk launch. The risk involved in doing so can be substantial because the remedies available to the owner of a patent for infringement may include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the patent owner and not necessarily by the profits earned by the infringer as well as injunctive relief, which would halt our ability to market and sell such products altogether. In the case of a willful infringement, the definition of which is subjective, such damages may be increased up to three times. Moreover, because of the discount pricing typically involved with generic products, patented proprietary products generally realize a substantially higher profit margin than generic products. An adverse decision in a case such as this or in other similar litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. With respect to our proprietary products, if we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we could lose sales to generic versions of our proprietary products which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. The success of our proprietary products depends in part on our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents and trademarks, and to protect trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. Our ability to commercialize any proprietary product successfully will largely depend upon our ability to obtain and maintain patents of sufficient scope to prevent third parties from developing substantially equivalent products. In the absence of patent and trade secret protection, competitors may adversely affect our proprietary products business by independently developing and marketing substantially equivalent products. It is also possible that we could incur substantial costs if we are required to initiate litigation against others to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights.. We have filed patent applications covering compositions of, methods of making and/or methods of using, our proprietary. 60. Table of Contents. products and proprietary product candidates. We may not be issued patents based on patent applications already filed or that we may file in the future, and if patents are issued, they may be insufficient in scope to cover our proprietary products. The issuance of a patent in one country does not ensure the issuance of a similar patent in any other country, or that we will even seek patent protection in all countries worldwide. Furthermore, the patent position of companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally involves complex legal and factual questions and has been and remains the subject of much litigation. Legal standards relating to scope and validity of patent claims are evolving and may differ in various countries. Any patents we have obtained, or will obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, the USPTO or any other governmental agency, as well as third parties, may commence interference, opposition or other related third party proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. Any challenge to, or invalidation or circumvention of, our patents or patent applications would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.. Our unpatented trade secrets, know-how, confidential and proprietary information and technology may be inadequately protected.. We rely on unpatented trade secrets, know-how and technology. This intellectual property is difficult to protect, especially in the pharmaceutical industry, where much of the information about a product must be submitted to regulatory authorities during the regulatory approval process. We seek to protect trade secrets, confidential information and proprietary information, in part, by entering into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees, consultants and others. These parties may breach or terminate these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for such breaches. Furthermore, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential or proprietary information or result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets and our other confidential and proprietary information, we or our collaboration partners, board members, employees, consultants, contractors, or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors.. There is a risk that our trade secrets and other confidential and proprietary information could have been, or could, in the future, be shared by any of our former employees with, and be used to the benefit of, any company that competes with us.. If we fail to maintain trade secret protection or fail to protect the confidentiality of our other confidential and proprietary information, our competitive position may be adversely affected. Competitors may also independently discover our trade secrets. Enforcement of claims that a third party has illegally obtained and is using trade secrets is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. If our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, we would not be able to assert our trade secret protections against them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. There can be no assurance of timely patent review and approval to minimize competition and generate sufficient revenues.. There can be no assurance that the USPTO will have sufficient resources to review and grant our patent applications in a timely manner. Consequently, our patent applications may be delayed for many years (if they issue as patents at all), which would prevent intellectual property protection for our products. If we fail to successfully commercialize our products due to the lack of intellectual property protection, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to meet or grow our business according to our expected goals and this may have a materially adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and operations.. We may be subject to claims that we, our board members, employees or consultants have used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information belonging to third parties and any such individuals who are currently affiliated with one of our competitors may disclose our proprietary technology or information.. As is commonplace in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, some of our board members, employees and. 61. Table of Contents. consultants are or have been employed at, or associated with, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies that compete with us. While employed at or associated with these companies, these individuals may become exposed to or involved in research and technology similar to the areas of research and technology in which we are engaged. We may be subject to claims that we, or our employees, board members or consultants have inadvertently, willfully or otherwise used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of those companies. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims.. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with our executives and key consultants. However, we do not have, and are not planning to enter into, any confidentiality agreements with our non-executive directors because they have a fiduciary duty of confidentiality as directors. Our former board members, employees or consultants who are currently employed at, or associated with, one of our competitors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary technology or information.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly or may fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, each of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline.. Our operating results may be subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of a number of factors, including the following:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe commercial success of our key products and those of our customers;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresults of clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpricing actions by competitors;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing of orders or any cancellation of orders from our customers;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmanufacturing or supply interruptions;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactions by regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, that have the effect of delaying or rejecting approvals of our product candidates;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the prescription practices of physicians;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges or developments in laws or regulations applicable to our product candidates;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tintroduction of competitive products or technologies;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to meet or exceed financial projections we provide to the public;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to meet or exceed the estimates and projections of securities analysts or investors;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe perception of the pharmaceutical industry by the public, legislatures, regulators and the investment community;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments or achievement of significant milestones;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in, or termination of our agreements with our business partners;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopments concerning our sources of manufacturing supply;. 62. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisputes or other developments relating to patents or other proprietary rights;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlitigation or investigations involving us, our industry, or both;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key scientific or management personnel;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements or issuances of debt, equity or convertible securities;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of our common stock by our stockholders;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the market valuations of similar companies;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmajor catastrophic events;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmajor changes in our Board of Directors or management or departures of key personnel;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour overall effective tax rate, including impacts caused by any reorganization in our corporate structure, and any new legislation or regulatory developments, including the Tax Act;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic and market conditions and overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets; or. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe other factors described in this \"Item 1.A Risk Factors\" section.. Any one of the factors above, or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above, may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our revenue, billings or operating results expectations or those of securities analysts or investors for any period. In addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue trends. Accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on operating results in the short term. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, our business could be materially adversely affected and our stock price could fluctuate or decline substantially.. In addition, if the market for pharmaceutical company stocks or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Our stock price may also be affected by sales of large blocks of our stock or an interruption or change in our stock buyback program.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources from our business, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or indications of an intent to sell, may cause our stock price to decline.. If we or our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. We maintain a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 pursuant to which we may, from time to time, sell up to an aggregate of $250 million of our common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants, units, or debt securities. We may also issue shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments or otherwise. Any such issuances would result in dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall.. In addition, we have registered approximately 18.5 million shares subject to options and RSUs outstanding or reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. 63. Table of Contents. Jack Y. Zhang and Mary Z. Luo, each of whom serves as a director and an executive officer, own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of March 6, 2018, Jack Y. Zhang and Mary Z. Luo, each of whom serves as one of our directors and executive officers, and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 28.2% of our outstanding common stock, including shares of common stock subject to options exercisable within 60 days of March 6, 2018. Our directors, executive officers and each of our stockholders who own greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock and their affiliates, in the aggregate, own approximately 31.9% of the outstanding, including shares of our common stock, based on the number of shares outstanding and shares of our common stock subject to options exercisable within 60 days of March 6, 2018. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, will be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock.. Jack Yongfeng Zhang and Mary Ziping Luo have pledged shares of our common stock to secure certain borrowed funds. The forced sale of these shares pursuant to a margin call or otherwise could cause our stock price to decline and negatively impact our business.. Since September 2015, UBS Bank USA has made extensions of credit in the aggregate amount of $7.8 million to Applied Physics & Chemistry Laboratories, Inc., or APCL, which is controlled by Jack Yongfeng Zhang and Mary Ziping Luo. The loan is secured by a pledge of 2,000,000 shares of our common stock currently held by APCL. Interest on the loan accrues at market rates. UBS Bank USA received customary fees and expense reimbursements in connection with these loans.. Since May 2017, UBS Bank Utah has made an extension of credit in the aggregate amount of $7.8 million to APCL. The loan is secured by a pledge of 1,907,898 shares of our common stock currently held by APCL. Interest on the loan accrues at market rates. UBS Bank Utah received customary fees and expense reimbursements in connection with these loans.. In October 2017, East West Bank entered into an agreement with Dr. Zhang and Dr. Luo whereby East West Bank would loan them up to $5,000,000. The loan is secured by a pledge of 650,000 shares of our common stock held by Dr. Zhang and 550,000 shares of our common stock held by Dr. Luo. Interest on the loan accrues at market rates.. We are not a party to these loans, which are full recourse against APCL and each of Dr. Zhang and Dr. Luo, respectively, and are secured by pledges of a portion of the shares of our common stock currently beneficially owned by Dr. Zhang and Dr. Luo.. If the price of our common stock declines, Dr. Zhang and Dr. Luo may be forced by UBS Bank to provide additional collateral for the loans or to sell shares of our common stock held by them in order to remain within the margin limitations imposed under the terms of their loans. Furthermore, in the event of a default under the terms of such loans, the pledged shares may be acquired and sold by the lenders. The loans between these banking institutions on the one hand, and Dr. Zhang and Dr. Luo on the other hand, prohibit the non-pledged shares currently owned by Dr. Zhang and Dr. Luo from being pledged to secure any other loans. These factors may limit Dr. Zhang and Dr. Luo's ability to either pledge additional shares of our common stock or sell shares of our common stock held by them as a means to avoid or satisfy a margin call with respect to their pledged common stock in the event of a decline in our stock price that is large enough to trigger a margin call. Any sales of common stock following a margin call that is not satisfied may cause the price of our common stock to decline further.. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. The continued operation and expansion of our business will require substantial funding. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon. 64. Table of Contents. results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Our existing loan agreements restrict, and any future indebtedness may restrict, our ability to pay dividends. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Accordingly, realization of a gain on your investment will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and qualified board members.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we have already hired additional employees to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants, which will increase our costs and expenses.. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected.. We also believe that being a public company and these rules and regulations make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance.. As a result of disclosure of information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition are more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management's attention from our business and adversely affect our business and could subject us to significant liabilities.. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of pharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations as well as a broad range of other factors, including the realization of any of the risks described in this section, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because pharmaceutical companies generally experience significant stock price volatility. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation is often expensive and could divert management's attention and resources from our primary business, which could adversely affect our business. Any adverse determination in any such litigation or any amounts paid to settle any such actual or threatened litigation could require that we make significant payments.. 65. Table of Contents. We are an emerging growth company and the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Investors may find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile.. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we chose to \"opt out\" of such extended transition period, and as a result, we comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards was irrevocable.. As an emerging growth company, we have also chosen to take advantage of certain provisions of the JOBS Act that allow us to provide less information in our public reports than would otherwise be required if we are not an emerging growth company. As a result, this Annual Report on Form 10-K includes less information about us than would otherwise be required if we were not an emerging growth company within the meaning of the JOBS Act, which may make it more difficult to evaluate an investment in our company.. We would cease to be an emerging growth company upon the earliest of: (i) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, which occurred on June 25, 2014, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year during which we have annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, (iii) the date on which we are deemed to be a \"large accelerated filer\" under the Exchange Act (we will qualify as a large accelerated filer as of the first day of the first fiscal year after we have (a) more than $700.0 million in outstanding common equity held by our non-affiliates and (b) been public for at least 12 months; the value of our outstanding common equity will be measured each year on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter); or (iv) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities.. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, could depress the trading price of our common stock by making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions include:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for. 66. Table of Contents. proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablishing a classified Board of Directors, whereby only one-third of the members of our Board of Directors are elected at one time.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by our Board of Directors. This provision could delay or prevent a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders, which could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
