[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report.. Our acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear) and the integration of its business, operations and employees with our own may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be fully realized, which could adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.. We completed the acquisition of Linear, which we refer to as the Acquisition, on March 10, 2017.  The success of the Acquisition, including the achievement of anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Acquisition, is subject to a number of uncertainties and will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate Linear's business into our business in an efficient and effective manner. Potential difficulties the combined company may encounter in the integration process include the following:. • the inability to successfully integrate Linear's business into our own in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the Acquisition, which could result in the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all;. • lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either or both of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined company, or deciding to decrease their amount of business in order to reduce their reliance on a single company;. • loss of key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers;. • integrating personnel, IT systems and corporate, finance and administrative infrastructures of the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and services;. • coordinating and integrating our internal operations, compensation programs, policies and procedures, and corporate structures;. • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen or increased costs and expenses;. • the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process;. • incurring significant Acquisition-related costs and expenses associated with combining our operations;. • performance shortfalls at one or both of the two companies as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by integrating the companies' operations; and. • servicing the substantial debt that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition.. Any of these factors could result in the combined company failing to realize the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition, on the expected timeline or at all, and could adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.. Disruptions in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Continuing uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.  Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.  Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.  Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the global credit and financial markets could cause the value of the currency in the affected markets to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of those customers. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. If economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share are difficult to predict and may materially fluctuate.. Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share are difficult to predict and may be materially affected by a number of factors, including:. • the effects of adverse economic conditions in the markets in which we sell our products;. • changes in customer demand for our products and/or for end products that incorporate our products;. • the timing, delay, reduction or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability to manage inventory;. 11. • fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality;. • our ability to effectively manage our cost structure in both the short term and over a longer duration;. • changes in geographic, product or customer mix;. • changes in our effective tax rates or new or revised tax legislation in the United States, Ireland or worldwide;. • the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us, our customers or our competitors and the market acceptance of such products;. • pricing decisions and competitive pricing pressures;. • fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability of wafers and other raw materials, and manufacturing, assembly and test capacity;. • the ability of our third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers to supply us with sufficient quantities of raw materials, products and/or components;. • a decline in infrastructure spending by foreign governments, including China;. • a decline in the U.S. Government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, a prolonged U.S. Government shutdown or delays in contract awards;. • any significant decline in our backlog;. • our ability to recruit, hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of engineers and other qualified employees to meet the demands of our customers;. • our ability to generate new design opportunities and win competitive bid selection processes;. • the increasing costs of providing employee benefits, including health insurance, retirement plan and pension plan contributions and retirement benefits;. • our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at efficient levels;. • potential significant litigation-related costs or product warranty and/or indemnity claims, including those not covered by our suppliers or insurers;. • the difficulties inherent in forecasting future operating expense levels, including with respect to costs associated with labor, utilities, transportation and raw materials;. • the costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide government, environmental and social responsibility regulations;. • new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices; and. • the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, widespread travel disruptions, security risks, terrorist activities, international conflicts, government sanctions, changes in law, including executive orders, changes in import and export regulations and other events beyond our control.. In addition, the semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic upturns and downturns. Our business and certain of the end markets we serve are also subject to rapid technological changes and material fluctuations in demand based on end-user preferences.  There can be no assurance (i) that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them, or (ii) that we will be able to design, develop and produce products in a timely fashion to accommodate changing customer demand. As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.  Our historical financial performance and results of operations should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance or results.  In addition, if our revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share results or expectations do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may decline.. Increases in our effective tax rate and exposure to additional tax liabilities may adversely impact our results of operations.. Our effective tax rate reflects the applicable tax rate in effect in the various tax jurisdictions around the world where our income is earned.  Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 was below the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, primarily due to. 12. lower statutory tax rates applicable to our operations in the foreign jurisdictions in which we earn income.  A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including: new or revised tax laws or legislation or the interpretation of such laws or legislation by governmental authorities; increases in tax rates in various jurisdictions; variation in the mix of jurisdictions in which our profits are earned and taxed; repatriation of non-U.S. earnings; any adverse resolution of ongoing tax audits or adverse rulings from taxing authorities worldwide; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including executive compensation subject to the limitations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and amortization of assets acquired in connection with strategic transactions; decreased availability of tax deductions for stock-based compensation awards worldwide; and changes in available tax credits. In addition, we have a partial tax holiday through July 2025 in Malaysia and a partial tax holiday in Singapore through August 2019. The ability to extend such tax holidays beyond their date of expiration cannot be assured; if we fail to meet certain conditions to the tax holidays, we may lose the benefit of the tax holdings and/or be subject to additional taxes and/or penalties. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could adversely impact our net income during future periods.. On October 5, 2015, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), an international association of thirty-five countries, including the United States, Ireland and UK, released the final reports from its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Action Plans. The BEPS recommendations covered a number of issues, including country-by-country reporting, permanent establishment rules, transfer pricing rules and tax treaties. Future tax reform resulting from such recommendations may result in changes to long-standing tax principles, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities.. Long-term contracts are not typical for us, and incorrect forecasts or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results.. We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers. In certain markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product. In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demands, which may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis. Additionally, our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts may be funded in increments over a number of government budget periods and typically can be terminated by the government for its convenience.  As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales, and we are subject to the risk of lower than expected orders or cancellations of orders, leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog. Further, orders or forecasts for products that meet the customer's unique requirements and that are canceled or unrealized orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs, and we may be unable to recover all of our costs incurred or committed. As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial. Incorrect forecasts, or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results.. Our future success depends upon our ability to execute our business strategy, continue to innovate, improve our existing products, design, develop, produce and market new products, and identify and enter new markets.. Our future success significantly depends on our continued ability to execute our business strategy, continue to improve our existing products and design, develop, produce and market innovative new products. Product design, development, innovation and enhancement is often a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving significant investment in research and development, with no assurance of return on investment. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce new and improved products in a timely or efficient manner or that new and improved products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance. Our products generally must conform to various evolving and sometimes competing industry standards, which may adversely affect our ability to compete in certain markets or require us to incur significant costs. In addition, our customers generally impose very high quality and reliability standards on our products, which often change and may be difficult or costly to satisfy. Any inability to satisfy customer quality and reliability standards or comply with industry standards and technical requirements may adversely affect demand for our products and our results of operations. In addition, our growth is dependent on our ability to generate new design opportunities and win competitive bid selection processes.  Failure to obtain or maintain a particular design win may prevent us from obtaining or maintaining design wins in subsequent generations of a particular product and could also weaken our position in future competitive selection processes.  Our growth is also dependent on our ability to identify and penetrate new markets where we have limited experience and competition is intense. Some of our customers in new markets are less established, which could subject us to increased credit risk. There can be no assurance that the markets we serve and/or target based on our business strategy will grow in the future, that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of these markets, that our products, or the products in which our products are used, will achieve customer acceptance in these markets, that competitors will not force price reductions or take market share from us, or that we can achieve or maintain adequate gross margins or profits in these markets. Additionally, developing markets, such as the Internet of Things (IoT) and autonomous driving, require significant investments, resources and technological advancements in order to compete effectively and there can be no assurance that we. 13. will achieve success in these markets.  Furthermore, a decline in demand in one or several of our end-user markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our results of operations.. We may not be able to compete successfully in markets within the semiconductor industry in the future.. We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry, and we expect this competition to increase in the future, including from companies located outside of the United States. Competition is generally based on innovation, design, quality and reliability of products, product performance, features and functionality, product pricing, availability and capacity, technological service and support, and the availability of integrated system solutions, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers. Many companies have sufficient financial, manufacturing, technical, sales and marketing resources to develop and market products that compete with our products. Some of our competitors may have more advantageous supply or development relationships with our current and potential customers or suppliers. Our competitors also include emerging companies selling specialized products in markets we serve and entities outside of the U.S., including entities associated with efforts by foreign governments to create indigenous semiconductor industries.  Existing or new competitors may develop products or technologies that more effectively address the demands of our customers and markets with enhanced performance, features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. In addition, as we seek to expand our business, including the design and production of products and services for the IoT market, we may encounter increased competition from our current competitors and/or new competitors.  Increased competition in certain markets has resulted in and may continue to result in declining average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in those markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased competition.  In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation over the past several years.  Consolidation among our competitors could lead to a changing competitive landscape, which could negatively impact our competitive position and market share and harm our results of operations.. We rely on third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers for some industry-standard wafers, manufacturing processes, assembly and test services, and transportation, and we generally cannot control their availability or conditions of supply.. We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on third-party suppliers, assembly and test subcontractors, freight carriers and wafer fabricators (collectively, suppliers) to supply most of our products that can be manufactured using industry-standard processes. This reliance involves several risks, including reduced control over availability, capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs. We currently source approximately 45% of our wafer requirements annually from third-party wafer fabrication foundries, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. In addition, these suppliers often provide manufacturing services to our competitors and therefore periods of increased industry demand may result in capacity constraints. In certain instances, the third-party supplier is the sole source of highly specialized processing services. If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers. If additional or replacement suppliers or manufacturing processes are not available, we may also experience delays in product development or shipment which could, in turn, result in the temporary or permanent loss of customers.. A prolonged disruption of our internal manufacturing operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to leveraging an outsourcing model for manufacturing operations, we also rely on our internal manufacturing operations located in the United States, Ireland, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia. A prolonged disruption at, or inability to utilize, one or more of our manufacturing facilities, loss of raw materials or damage to our manufacturing equipment for any reason, including due to natural or man-made disasters or other events outside of our control, such as widespread outbreaks of illness or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, may disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in us being unable to timely satisfy customer demand. As a result, we could forgo revenue opportunities, potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our outstanding term loans and senior unsecured notes.. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness when due, including the significant indebtedness that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition, depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our outstanding debt, we may be required to, among other things:. • seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;. 14. • refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness;. • borrow under our revolving credit facility;. • divert funds that would otherwise be invested in our operations;. • repatriate earnings at higher tax rates that are indefinitely reinvested in foreign locations;. • sell selected assets; or. • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures or operating expenditures.. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, which could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, we may not be able to obtain any such financing, refinancing or complete a sale of assets on economically favorable terms. In the case of financing or refinancing, favorable interest rates will be dependent on the health of the debt capital markets.. Our significant existing indebtedness could also have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes or creating competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels.. The markets for semiconductor products are cyclical, and increased production may lead to overcapacity and lower prices, and conversely, we may not be able to satisfy unexpected demand for our products.. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted in periods when demand for our products has increased or decreased rapidly.  The demand for our products is subject to the strength of our four major end markets of Industrial, Communications, Automotive and Consumer.  If we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly or procure excessive resources in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and that demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expect, or declines, or if we overbuild inventory in a period of decreased demand, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of increased operating expenses, reduced margins, underutilization of capacity or asset impairment charges. These capacity expansions by us and other semiconductor manufacturers could also lead to overcapacity in our target markets which could lead to price erosion that would adversely impact our operating results. Conversely, during periods of rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand. In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources and raw materials, locate suitable third-party suppliers, or respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to demand for new products requested by our customers, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected.. Our semiconductor products are complex and we may be subject to product warranty and indemnity claims, which could result in significant costs and damage to our reputation and adversely affect customer relationships, the market acceptance of our products and our operating results.. Semiconductor products are highly complex and may contain defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are developed. Failures in our products and services or in the products of customers could result in damage to our reputation for reliability and increase our legal or financial exposure to third parties.  Certain of our products and services could also contain security vulnerabilities, defects, bugs and errors, which could also result in significant data losses, security breaches and theft of intellectual property.  We generally warrant our products to our customers for one year from the date title passes from us. We invest significant resources in the testing of our products; however, if any of our products contain defects, we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for costs and expenses associated with product recalls, which may adversely impact our operating results. We may also be subject to customer indemnity claims. Our customers have on occasion been sued, and may be sued in the future, by third parties alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, or damages resulting from use of our products. Those customers may seek indemnification from us under the terms and conditions of our sales contracts with them. In certain cases, our potential indemnification liability may be significant. If any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to customers and could also adversely affect our operating results.. The fabrication of integrated circuits is highly complex and precise, and our manufacturing processes utilize a substantial amount of technology. Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional. While we have significant expertise in semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes could become unstable.. 15. This instability could result in manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We are occasionally involved in litigation, including claims regarding intellectual property rights, which could be costly to litigate and could require us to redesign products or pay significant royalties.. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights, including claims arising under our contractual obligations to indemnify our customers. Other companies or individuals have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling infringing products, if those patents are found to be valid and infringed by us.  In the event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us and a license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced either to redesign or to stop production of products incorporating that intellectual property, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents or other of our intellectual property rights or to defend us against claims of infringement, and this litigation could be costly and divert the attention of our key personnel. We could also be subject to litigation or arbitration disputes arising under our contractual obligations, as well as indemnity, warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant costs and expenses as we defend those claims or pay damage awards. There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured to protect against all claims and potential liabilities, and we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters. An adverse outcome in litigation or arbitration could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or on our operating results or cash flows in the period in which the dispute is resolved.. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively.. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, mask work, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, reverse engineer, use or disclose our technologies, products and processes. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries in which we design, manufacture, market and sell our products may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary intellectual property.. There can be no assurance that the claims allowed in our issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection. We may not be able to obtain foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications. Even if patents are granted, enforcement may not be available or achieved under the circumstances. If our patents and mask works do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents.. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment.. A significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems could materially and adversely affect our business or reputation.. We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email.  Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events.   We also utilize external cloud providers for certain infrastructure activities. If we were to experience a prolonged disruption in the information technology systems that involve our internal communications or our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. We may also be subject to security breaches caused by computer viruses, illegal break-ins or hacking, sabotage, or acts of vandalism by third parties or our employees or contractors.  Our security measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent security breaches, defects, bugs or errors.  In addition, we provide our confidential and proprietary information to our strategic partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business.  While we employ confidentiality agreements to protect such information, nonetheless those third parties may also be subject to security breaches or otherwise compromise the protection of such information.  Security breaches of our information technology. 16. systems or those of our partners could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential and proprietary information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.. If we are unable to recruit or retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be adversely affected.. Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The inability to attract and retain key employees with critical technical skills to achieve our strategy could also have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on our business should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or employees.. To remain competitive, we may need to invest in or acquire other companies, purchase or license technology from third parties, or enter into other strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or enhance our existing products.. An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, diversify our product portfolio, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce, expand our technical skill sets or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to find businesses that have the technology or resources we need and, if we find such businesses, we may not be able to invest in, purchase or license the technology or resources on commercially favorable terms or at all. Acquisitions, investments and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory approvals, and difficulties related to integration efforts.  In addition, investments in private companies are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of our investment.  Both in the U.S. and abroad, governmental regulation of acquisitions, including antitrust reviews and approvals, has become more complex, increasing the costs and risks of undertaking and consummating significant acquisitions. In order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by issuing securities or borrowing money. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, and the sale of our stock may result in the dilution of our existing shareholders or the issuance of securities with rights that are superior to the rights of our common shareholders.. Acquisitions also involve a number of challenges and risks, including:. • difficulty or delay integrating acquired technologies, operations and personnel with our existing businesses;. • diversion of management's attention in connection with both negotiating the transaction and integrating the assets;. • strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger or more complex operations;. • the future funding requirements for acquired companies, which may be significant;. • potential loss of key employees;. • exposure to unforeseen liabilities or regulatory compliance issues of acquired companies;. • higher than expected or unexpected costs relating to or associated with an acquisition and integration of assets;. • difficulty realizing synergies and growth prospects of an acquisition in a timely manner or at all; and. • increased risk of costly and time-consuming legal proceedings.. If we are unable to successfully address these risks, we may not realize some or all of the expected benefits of the acquisition, which may have an adverse effect on our business strategy, plans and operating results.. We rely on supplies, services and manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable areas, which could affect our ability to produce products.. We, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on supplies, services, internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and other subcontractors in geologically unstable locations around the world. Earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters may disrupt local semiconductor-related businesses and adversely affect manufacturing capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment, and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide.  Our insurance may not adequately cover losses resulting from such disruptions.  Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, flood, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of customers for affected products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 17. We are exposed to business, economic, political, legal, regulatory and other risks through our significant worldwide operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have significant operations and manufacturing facilities outside the United States, including in Ireland, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from customers in international markets, and we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in the future.  Risks associated with our international business operations include the following:. • political, legal and economic changes or instability and civil unrest in foreign markets;. • currency conversion risks and exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations;. • limitations on the repatriation of earnings;. • trade and travel restrictions or government sanctions, including import or export tariffs or restrictions imposed by the U.S. government on trading with parties in foreign countries;. • complex, varying and changing government regulations and legal standards and requirements, particularly with respect to price protection, competition practices, export control regulations and restrictions, customs and tax requirements, immigration, anti-boycott regulations, data privacy, intellectual property, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, including U.S. customs and export regulations and restrictions, International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. • economic disruption from terrorism and threats of terrorism and the response to them by the U.S. and its allies;. • increased managerial complexities, including different employment practices and labor issues;. • greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights;. • natural disasters or pandemics;. • transportation disruptions and delays and increases in labor and transportation costs;. • changes to foreign taxes, tariffs and freight rates;. • fluctuations in raw material costs and energy costs;. • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collections and longer collection periods; and. • costs associated with our foreign defined benefit pension plans.. Any of these risks, or any other risks related to international business operations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Many of these risks are present in China.  While we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China's continuously evolving policies, laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs or restrictions, currency controls, antitrust, cybersecurity and data protection, the environment, indigenous innovation and the promotion of a domestic semiconductor industry, and intellectual property rights and enforcement and protection of those rights. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies, international trade policies and relations, or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, and restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results.. At October 28, 2017, our principal source of liquidity was $1.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $379.2 million was held in the United States and the remaining balance was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. As we intend to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely, this cash held outside the United States is not available to meet certain aspects of our cash requirements in the United States. We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends and acquisitions. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, borrowings under our current revolving credit facility, future debt or equity offerings or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are indefinitely reinvested, and we may be required to pay additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operating results are dependent on the performance of independent distributors.. A significant portion of our sales are through independent distributors that are not under our control. These independent distributors generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to. 18. our products or they could terminate their representation of us. We generally do not require letters of credit from our distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or declarations of bankruptcy by these distributors. Our inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our operating results. Termination of a significant distributor or a group of distributors, whether at our initiative or the distributor's initiative or through consolidation in the distribution industry, could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected.  We have also recently reduced the number of distributors we use, which may exacerbate the foregoing risks.. We are subject to environmental, health and safety (EHS) regulations, which could increase our expenses and affect our operating results.. Our industry is subject to EHS requirements, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the sourcing, use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. Public attention to environmental, sustainability and social responsibility concerns continues to increase, and our customers routinely include stringent environmental and other standards in their contracts with us. Changes in EHS laws or regulations may require us to invest in costly equipment or make manufacturing process changes and may adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. In addition, we use hazardous and other regulated materials that subject us to risks of strict liability for damages caused by potential or actual releases of such materials. Any failure to control such materials adequately or to comply with existing or future EHS statutory or regulatory standards, requirements or contractual obligations could result in any of the following, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results:. • liability for damages and remediation;. • the imposition of regulatory penalties and civil and criminal fines;. • the suspension or termination of the development, manufacture, sale or use of certain of our products;. • changes to our manufacturing processes or a need to substitute materials that may cost more or be less available;. • damage to our reputation; and/or. • increased expenses associated with compliance.. If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, we could suffer a loss of revenue or incur price adjustments or other penalties.. Some of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the United States government and subcontracts with its prime contractors. As a United States government contractor or subcontractor, we are subject to federal contracting regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which govern the allowability of costs incurred by us in the performance of United States government contracts. Certain contract pricing is based on estimated direct and indirect costs, which are subject to change. Additionally, the United States government is entitled after final payment on certain negotiated contracts to examine all of our cost records with respect to such contracts and to seek a downward adjustment to the price of the contract if it determines that we failed to furnish complete, accurate and current cost or pricing data in connection with the negotiation of the price of the contract.. In connection with our United States government business, we are also subject to government audits and to review and approval of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws. In certain circumstances, if we do not comply with the terms of a contract or with regulations or statutes, we could be subject to downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations or could in extreme circumstances be assessed civil and criminal penalties or be debarred or suspended from obtaining future contracts for a specified period of time. Any such suspension or debarment or other sanction could have an adverse effect on our business.. Under some of our government subcontracts, we are required to maintain secure facilities and to obtain security clearances for personnel involved in performance of the contract, in compliance with applicable federal standards. If we were unable to comply with these requirements, or if personnel critical to our performance of these contracts were unable to obtain or maintain their security clearances, we might be unable to perform these contracts or compete for other projects of this nature, which could adversely affect our revenue.. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments may limit our activities.. Our current revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments impose, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may impose, restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our Company, including to undertake certain transactions, to create certain liens on our assets and to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and changes in technology, government regulations and the level of competition. In. 19. addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. If we breach any of the covenants under our revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes, the term loans or any future debt instruments to which we may become subject and do not obtain appropriate waivers, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable or we may be restricted from further borrowing under our revolving credit facility.. Our stock price may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future, as it may be significantly affected by factors including:. • global economic conditions generally;. • crises in global credit, debt and financial markets;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and operating results;. • changes in financial estimates or other statements made by securities analysts or others in analyst reports or other publications or our failure to perform in line with those estimates or statements or our published guidance;. • financial results and prospects of our customers;. • U.S. and foreign government actions;. • changes in market valuations of other semiconductor companies;. • rumors and speculation in the press, investment community or on social media about us, our customers or other companies in our industry;. • announcements by us, our customers or our competitors of significant new products, technical innovations, material transactions, acquisitions or dispositions, litigation, capital commitments or revised earnings estimates;. • departures of key personnel;. • alleged noncompliance with laws, regulations or ethics standards by us or any of our employees, officers or directors; and. • negative media publicity targeting us or our suppliers, customers or competitors.. The stock market has historically experienced volatility, especially within the semiconductor industry, that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our operating results.. Our directors and executive officers periodically sell shares of our common stock in the market, including pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans.  Regardless of the individual's reasons for such sales, securities analysts and investors could view such sales as a negative indicator and our stock price could be adversely affected as a result."
