[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. An investment in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to Anchor Bancorp, our industry, and our market area.  Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this report.  In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the national economy and the regional economies on which we depend.. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington.  Adverse economic conditions in Washington state may reduce our rate of growth, affect our customers' ability to repay loans and adversely impact our financial condition and earnings.  General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may adversely affect our profitability adversely.  Weakness in the global economy has adversely affected many businesses operating in our markets that are dependent upon international trade.  A decline in the national economy or the economies of the five counties in which we operate, which we consider to be our primary market areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Weak economic conditions and previous strains in the financial and housing markets in our market area has resulted in higher levels of loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and a decline in the values of the collateral securing our loans.. While real estate values and unemployment rates have recently improved, deterioration in economic conditions in our primary  market areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:. • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • we may increase our allowance for loan losses;. • the slowing of sales of foreclosed assets;. • demand for our products and services may decline, possibly resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets;. • collateral for loans made may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk of loss on existing loans, reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;. • the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and. • the amount of our low-cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected.. A decline in Washington state economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. Many of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate. Deterioration in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could negatively affect the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as fires and earthquakes. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected.. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss.. In addition to residential mortgage loans, we originate construction and land loans, commercial and multi-family mortgage loans, commercial business loans, and consumer loans primarily within our market areas.  At June 30, 2018, we had $265.4 million outstanding in non-residential loans.  At that date, loans delinquent 30 days or more, including nonperforming loans, were $2.0 million, and delinquent loans represented 0.5% of total loans. Many of these loans are perceived to have greater credit risk than residential real estate loans for a number of reasons, including those described below:. Commercial and Multi-family Mortgage Loans.  These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated from the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions.  Commercial and multi-family mortgage loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate.  In addition, many of our commercial and. 39. Table of Contents. multi-family real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity.  Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment.  At June 30, 2018, we had $207.7 million or 52.3% of total loans in commercial and multi-family mortgage loans, of which none were nonperforming.. Construction and Land Loans. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, we originated $49.5 million and $101.3 million in construction loans, and $2.9 million and $4.3 million in land loans.  From June 30, 2013 through June 30, 2018, our construction loans grew and land loans declined. At June 30, 2018, we had $91.4 million or 23.0% of total loans in construction and land loans of which $5.5 million were land loans.. Construction and land lending generally involves additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in estimating a property's value both before and at completion of the project as well as the estimated cost of the project and the time needed to sell the property  at completion.  Construction costs may exceed original estimates as a result of increased materials, labor or other costs.  Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio.  Changes in the demand, such as for new housing and higher than anticipated building costs may cause actual results to vary significantly from those estimated.  For these reasons, this type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders.  A downturn in housing, or the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Some of our builders have more than one loan outstanding with us, and consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss.. In addition, during the term of most of our construction loans, no payment from the borrower is required since the accumulated interest is added to the principal of the loan through an interest reserve.  As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the successful outcome of the project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If the appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. Because construction loans require active monitoring of the building process, including cost comparisons and on-site inspections, these loans are more difficult and costly to monitor. Increases in market rates of interest may have a more pronounced effect on construction loans by rapidly increasing the end-purchasers' borrowing costs, thereby reducing the overall demand for the project.  Properties under construction are often difficult to sell and typically must be completed in order to be successfully sold which also complicates the process of working out problem construction loans. This may require us to advance additional funds and/or contract with another builder to complete construction and assume the market risk of selling the project at a future market price, which may or may not enable us to fully recover unpaid loan funds and associated construction and liquidation costs. Further, in the case of speculative construction loans, there is the added risk associated with identifying an end-purchaser for the finished project, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. At June 30, 2018, $27.0 million [per table on page 9] of our construction loans were for speculative one-to-four family construction.. Lot loans made to individuals for the future construction of a residence also pose additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can also be significantly impacted by supply and demand conditions. At June 30, 2018, none of our construction and land loans were nonperforming.. Commercial Business Loans. At June 30, 2018, we had $20.3 million or 5.1% of total loans in commercial business loans, however, we are currently planning on expanding our commercial business lending, subject to market conditions.  Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrower's cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible, inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, and other collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business.  Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and creditworthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower.  At June 30, 2018, $222,000 of our commercial business loans were nonperforming.. 40. Table of Contents. Consumer Loans.  We make secured and unsecured consumer loans.  Our secured consumer loans are collateralized with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss.  In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy.  Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans.   At June 30, 2018, we had $15.9 million or 4.0% of total loans in consumer loans of which $207,000 were nonperforming.  Of this amount, $12.3 million were in home equity loans, some of which are loans in amounts for up to 100% of collateral value.  For more information about the credit risk, we face with respect to these types of loans, see \"Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.\". Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.. At June 30, 2018, $62.1 million, or 15.6%, of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one-to-four single-family real property. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict.  A decline in residential real estate values resulting from a downturn in the Washington housing markets in which we operate may reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing these loans and increase our risk of loss if borrowers default on their loans. Recessionary conditions or declines in the volume of real estate sales and/or the sales prices couples with elevated unemployment rates may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, and a decline in demand for our products and services. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations.  These declines may also have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified.. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated the loan with a relatively high combined loan-to-value ratio or because of the decline in home values in our market areas.  Residential loans with combined higher loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds.  Further, a significant amount of our home equity lines of credit consist of second mortgage loans. For those home equity lines secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan proceeds in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property.  For these reasons, we may experience higher rates of delinquencies, default and losses on our residential loans.  At June 30, 2018, $507,000 of our one-to-four single-family loans were nonperforming.. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk as the result of subprime loans.. As of June 30, 2018, we held in our loan portfolio $2.7 million in one-to-four family mortgage loans ($2.2 million of which were fixed rate), $931,000 of home equity loans (of which $821,000 were fixed rate) and $277,000 of other types of consumer loans (of which $132,000 were fixed rate), which are considered \"subprime\" by federal banking regulators.  The aggregate amount of loans considered subprime at June 30, 2018 was $3.9 million or 1.0% of our total loan portfolio. In exchange for the additional lender risk associated with these loans, these borrowers generally are required to pay a higher interest rate, and depending on the severity of the credit history, a lower loan-to-value ratio may be required than for a conforming loan borrower. At the time of loan origination, our subprime borrowers had an average Fair Isaac and Company, Incorporated, or FICO, credit score of 628 and a weighted average loan-to-value ratio of 54%, which loan-to-value ratio may be significantly understated if current market values are used. A FICO score is a principal measure of credit quality and is one of the significant criteria we rely upon in our underwriting. Generally, a FICO score higher than 660 indicates the borrower has an acceptable credit reputation.  At June 30, 2018, none of our subprime loans were categorized as nonperforming assets.  Subprime loans are generally considered to have an increased risk of delinquency and foreclosure than do conforming loans, especially when adjustable rate loans adjust to a higher interest rate. We had not experienced such increased delinquencies or foreclosures at June 30, 2018, however, our subprime loan portfolio will be adversely affected in the event of a further downturn in regional or national economic conditions. In addition, we may not recover funds in an amount equal to any remaining loan balance. Consequently, we could sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense.. Our concentration in non-owner occupied residential real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk.. At June 30, 2018, $29.8 million, or 48.0% of our residential mortgage loan portfolio and 7.5% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depends primarily on the tenant's continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner's ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In. 41. Table of Contents. addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us.  At June 30, 2018, we had 12 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships, with aggregate outstanding balances of $19.8 million, of which eight loan relationships had an aggregate outstanding balance over $500,000. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan.  At June 30, 2018, all of our non-owner occupied residential mortgage loans complied with their loan repayment terms.. We have a concentration of large loans outstanding to a limited number of borrowers that increases our risk of loss.. We have extended significant amounts of credit to a limited number of borrowers, largely in connection with our commercial real estate, non-owner occupied residential real estate loans and construction loans. At June 30, 2018, the aggregate amount of loans to our ten largest borrowers amounted to approximately $89.4 million or 22.5% of total loans.  At this date, none of the loans to our ten largest borrowers were nonperforming.. A high concentration of credit to a limited number of borrowers increases the risk of our loan portfolio. In the event that one or more of these borrowers is not able to meet interest payments or pay scheduled amortization on such obligations, the potential loss to us is more likely to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny.. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the OCC, have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending, guidance for those institutions which are deemed to have concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Pursuant to the supervisory criteria contained in the guidance for identifying institutions with a potential commercial real estate concentration risk, institutions which have total commercial real estate loans representing 300% or more of the institutions total risk-based capital and the institution's commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased 50% or more during the prior 36 months are identified as having potential commercial real estate concentration risk. Institutions which are deemed to have concentrations in commercial real estate lending are expected to employ heightened levels of risk management with respect to their commercial real estate portfolios, and may be required to hold higher levels of capital. Like many community banks, we have a concentration in commercial real estate loans, and have also experienced a 16.9% growth in our commercial real estate portfolio during the past 36 months. Commercial real estate loans represent 222.8% of total risk based capital as of June 30, 2018 compared to 243.8% of total risk based capital at June 30, 2017. In addition, our total of income producing or non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans was $166.4 million or 246.5% of total capital at June 30, 2018 compared to $172.1 million or 269.8% of total capital at June 30, 2017.  While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms, or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment.  This risk is affected by, among other things:. • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;. • the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan;. • the duration of the loan;. • the character and creditworthiness of a particular borrower; and. • changes in economic and industry conditions.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which we believe is an appropriate reserve to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio.  The allowance is funded by provisions for loan losses charged to expense.  The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:. • our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience, certain macroeconomic factors, and management's expectations of future events;. • our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of nonperforming loans and their underlying collateral; and. 42. Table of Contents. • an allocated pool reserve to provide for other credit losses including allocations for secured and unsecured loans.. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes.  Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses.  Additionally, pursuant to our growth strategy, management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner and will increase the risk that our allowance may be insufficient to absorb losses without significant additional provisions.  Further, the Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for credit losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for credit losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and may greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses.  In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management.  In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses we will need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses.  Any additional provisions will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected.. At June 30, 2018, our nonperforming assets which consist of nonaccruing loans and real estate owned were $1.7 million, or 0.4% of total assets.  Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways:. • we record interest income only on a cash basis for nonaccrual loans and any nonperforming securities and we do not record interest income for real estate owned;. • we must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses;. • noninterest expense increases when we write down the value of properties in our real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values or recognize other-than-temporary impairment on nonperforming securities;. • there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance fees related to our real estate owned; and. • the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity.. If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our nonperforming assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced.. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed upon and the property taken in as real estate owned and at certain other times during the asset's holding period.  Our net book value (\"NBV\") in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (\"fair value\"). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's NBV over its fair value.  If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of the investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our real estate owned and may require us to recognize further charge-offs.  Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value and interest rates.. 43. Table of Contents. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Our securities portfolio is evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our shareholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value will not result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability.. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. In an attempt to help the overall economy, the Federal Reserve has kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate. The Federal Reserve has steadily increased the federal funds rate over the last three fiscal years to a range of 1.75% to 2.00% in June 2018 and indicated further increases in the future subject to economic conditions.  As the Federal Reserve increases the targeted Fed Funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively.  Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, which could negatively impact shareholders' equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and (5) the average duration of our mortgage backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets.. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected.  As a result of the relatively low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of short-term certificates of deposit and other deposits yielding no or a relatively low rate of interest.  At June 30, 2018, we had $100.3 million in certificates of deposit that mature within one year and $55.4 million in non-interest bearing demand deposits.  We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.  In addition, a substantial amount of our mortgage loans and home equity loans have adjustable interest rates.  As a result, these loans may experience a higher rate of default in a rising interest rate environment. Further, a prolonged period of relatively low market interest rates, such as we are currently experiencing, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of substantially reduced asset yields.. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and, in particular, our securities portfolio.  Generally, the fair value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates.  Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax.  Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity.. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see Item 7A. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Asset and Liability Management and Market Risk,\" of this Form 10-K.. 44. Table of Contents. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs.. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines (\"FHLB\") and other borrowings to fund our operations.  At June 30, 2018, we had $37.0 million of FHLB advances outstanding with an additional $124.9 million of available borrowing capacity.  Additionally we have $4.9 million available with Pacific Coast Bankers Bank and $1.2 million available with the Federal Reserve.  Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB, or market conditions change. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Washington markets where our loans are concentrated, or adverse regulatory action against us.  Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and the prepayment of loans and mortgage-related securities are also strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived, and competition for deposits and loans in the markets we serve. In particular, our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we are unable to access funds from the FHLB of Des Moines or other wholesale funding sources, or if adequate financing is not available at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable, or are not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected.  Further, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs.  In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, any additional capital we obtain may result in the dilution of the interests of existing holders of our common stock. Lastly, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by our bank regulators, we may be subject to adverse regulatory action.. The financial services market is undergoing rapid technological changes, and if we are unable to stay current with those changes, we will not be able to effectively compete.. The financial services market is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to keep pace with the technological changes and to use technology to satisfy and grow customer demand for our products and services and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. We expect that we will need to make substantial investments in our technology and information systems to compete effectively and to stay current with technological changes. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements and will be able to invest more heavily in developing and adopting new technologies, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities.  If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.  These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts.  Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions.  Recently several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations.  While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. 45. Table of Contents. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology.. Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber attack. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger and virtually all other aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, fraudulent or unauthorized access, denial or degradation of service attacks, misuse, computer viruses, malware or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have a security impact. If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We could also suffer significant reputational damage.. Breaches of information security also may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our clients' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees. The Company is continuously working to install new and upgrade its existing information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks to further protect the Company against cyber risks and security breaches.. There continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. We are regularly the target of attempted cyber and other security threats and must continuously monitor and develop our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have a security impact. Insider or employee cyber and security threats are increasingly a concern for companies, including ours. We are not aware that we have experienced any material misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information as a result of a cyber-security breach or other act, however, some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which could increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us.. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions. Any compromise of our security could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. Although we have developed and continue to invest in systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures, and could result in losses to us or our customers, our loss of business and/or customers, damage to our reputation, the incurrence of additional expenses, disruption to our business, our inability to grow our online services or other businesses, additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties, or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our security measures may not protect us from system failures or interruptions. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third-party providers. While the Company selects third-party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties including those resulting from breakdowns or other disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher transaction volumes, cyber-attacks and security breaches or if we otherwise have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. We cannot assure you that such breaches, failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from breaches, system failures or other disruptions. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure. 46. Table of Contents. you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Further, the occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The board of directors oversees the risk management process, including the risk of cybersecurity, and engages with management on cybersecurity issues.. Our operations rely on numerous external vendors.. We rely on numerous external vendors to provide us with products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which in turn could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We also could be adversely affected to the extent such an agreement is not renewed by a third party vendor or is renewed on terms less favorable to us. Additionally, the bank regulatory agencies expect financial institutions to be responsible for all aspects of our vendors' performance, including aspects which they delegate to third parties. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes.  Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased.  We have also experienced losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes.  While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur.. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees.. Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers.  We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective.  Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation.. Risks Relating to the Pending Merger. The Company and the Bank will be subject to uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the proposed merger with FS Bancorp is pending.. We may have difficulty attracting, retaining and motivating key personnel until the proposed merger is complete, which could cause customers to seek to change their banking relationship with us. Some of our employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company following the proposed merger with FS Bancorp. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the Company, our business could be harmed. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, we have agreed to operate our business in the ordinary course prior to closing of the proposed merger with FS Bancorp.  This restriction may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to completion of the merger.. Termination of the merger agreement could negatively impact the Company.. The Company's shareholders will be asked to approve the proposed merger with FS Bancorp and if we fail to obtain two-thirds shareholder approval of the proposal, the merger agreement may be terminated. The merger is subject to satisfaction of additional customary closing conditions and if we cannot satisfy such conditions, the merger agreement may also be terminated. If the merger agreement is terminated, there may be various negative consequences to the Company. We may be adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other opportunities due to management's focus on the proposed merger with FS Bancorp. We have devoted. 47. Table of Contents. significant internal resources to the proposed merger, which would be lost if the merger is not completed. Additionally, if the merger agreement is terminated, the market price of the Company's common stock could decline to the extent that the current market prices reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed. If the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to pay to FS Bancorp a termination fee of $2.7 million.. Completion of the merger is subject to regulatory approvals and there is no assurance those will be obtained.. Before the merger and the bank merger may be completed, FS Bancorp and Anchor Bancorp must obtain approvals from the FDIC, and DFI and a waiver from the Federal Reserve Board. Other approvals, waivers or consents from regulators may also be required. Regulatory issues could result in an inability to obtain approvals or delay their receipt. The regulators may also impose conditions on the completion of the merger or the bank merger or require changes to the terms of the merger or the bank merger. Such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of FS Bancorp following the merger, any of which might have an adverse effect on FS Bancorp following the merger. FS Bancorp is not obligated to complete the Merger if the regulatory approvals received in connection with the completion of the merger impose any unduly burdensome condition upon FS Bancorp following the merger or FS Bancorp following the bank merger.. If the proposed merger with FS Bancorp is not completed it may have a negative impact on us.. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with the negotiation and completion of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement with FS Bancorp. If the proposed merger with FS Bancorp is not completed, we would have to recognize these expenses without realizing any expected benefits of the proposed merger.  In addition, if the merger is not completed and our board of directors seeks another merger or business combination, our shareholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find another party interest in acquiring us or a party willing to offer equivalent or more attractive consideration than the consideration FS Bancorp has agreed to provide.. The proposed merger has occupied a significant amount of our time and has had, and will continue to have, an impact on our employees.. Our management and board of directors have devoted and will continue to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the merger. In addition, in connection with the merger, we have incurred and will continue to incur expenses, which may be significant. FS Bancorp and Anchor Bancorp have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on Anchor Bancorp and consequently on FS Bancorp. These uncertainties may impair the Company's ability to attract, retain or motivate key personnel until the merger is consummated, and could cause customers and others that deal with the Company to seek to change existing business relationships with the Company. Retention of certain employees may be challenging during the pendency of the merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with FS Bancorp. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with FS Bancorp, Anchor Bancorp could be harmed if the merger is not completed.. The merger agreement significantly restricts our ability to pursue alternative proposals.. The merger agreement contains non-solicitation provisions that, subject to limited exceptions, limit Anchor Bancorp's ability to discuss, facilitate or commit to competing third-party proposals to acquire all or a significant part of Anchor Bancorp. Although our board of directors is permitted to take certain actions in connection with the receipt of a competing acquisition proposal if it determines in good faith that the failure to do so would violate its fiduciary duties, taking such actions could, and other actions (such as withdrawing or modifying its recommendation to Anchor Bancorp shareholders that they vote in favor of approval of the merger agreement) would, entitle FS Bancorp to terminate the merger agreement and receive a termination fee of $2.7 million. These provisions might discourage a potential competing acquiror that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Anchor from considering or proposing that acquisition even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share price than that proposed in the merger, or might result in a potential competing acquiror proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire Anchor Bancorp than it might otherwise have proposed to pay. The payment of the termination fee could also have an adverse impact on Anchor Bancorp's financial condition.. 48. Table of Contents"
