[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay distributions on our common or preferred units or the trading price of our common units could decline.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our operations and Andeavor's refining operations are subject to many risks and operational hazards, which may result in business interruptions and shutdowns of our or Andeavor's facilities and damages for which we may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event results in a business interruption or shutdown, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and operational hazards inherent in transporting and storing crude oil and refined products, as well as the gathering, processing and treating of natural gas and the fractionation of NGLs, including:. • damages to pipelines, plants and facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters as well as acts of terrorism;. • damage to pipelines and other assets from construction, farm and utility equipment;. • damage to third-party property or persons, including injury or loss of life;. • mechanical or structural failures on our pipelines, at our facilities or at third-party facilities on which our operations are dependent, including Andeavor's facilities;. • ruptures, fires and explosions;. • leaks or losses of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs, refined products and other hydrocarbons or other regulated substances as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities;. • curtailments of operations relative to severe seasonal weather; and. • other hazards.. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage, as well as business interruptions, shutdowns of our facilities or harm to our reputation. Any such event or unplanned shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Andeavor's refining operations, on which our operations are substantially dependent, are subject to similar operational hazards and risks inherent in refining crude oil.. A significant portion of our operating responsibility also requires us to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our terminals and pipeline connections. If our quality control measures fail, we may have contaminated or off-specification products commingled in our pipelines and storage tanks or off-specification product could be sent to public gas stations and other End Users. These types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers or other pipelines to which our pipelines connect. There can be no assurance that product liability against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers.. December 31, 2017 | 15. Risk Factors. Our current insurance coverage does not insure against all potential losses, and we could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance or failure by an insurer to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. Insurance companies may demand significantly higher premiums and deductibles as a result of market conditions. Certain insurance could also become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage, if there are significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry.. If we are unable to complete acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or within anticipated timeframes from Andeavor or third parties, our future growth will be limited, and any acquisitions we make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders.. Our growth strategy depends in part on acquisitions that increase distributable cash flow. The acquisition component of our growth strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of gathering, processing, transportation, storage and wholesale assets by industry participants, including Andeavor. If we are unable to make acquisitions from Andeavor or third parties because (1) there is a material decrease in divestitures of gathering, processing, transportation, storage and wholesale assets, (2) we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts,. (3) we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, (4) we are unsuccessful in our bid against competing potential purchasers, or (5) for any other reason, our ability to grow our operations and increase cash distributions to our unitholders will be limited. Even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact decrease distributable cash flow as a result of incorrect assumptions in our evaluation of such acquisitions or unforeseen consequences or other external events beyond our control. Additionally, regulatory agencies could require us to divest certain of our assets in order to consummate future acquisitions. We may not be able to consummate any of our expected acquisitions within our desired timeframes or at all. Furthermore, if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources.. Our right of first offer to acquire certain of Andeavor's existing assets is subject to risks and uncertainty, and ultimately we may not acquire any of those assets. In addition, we may not be able to acquire other assets that Andeavor has said it may offer to us in the future for acquisition.. Our Amended Omnibus Agreement provides us with a right of first offer on certain of Andeavor's existing logistics assets for certain specified periods. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions of these assets will depend upon, among other things, Andeavor's willingness to offer these assets for sale, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements and commercial agreements with respect to the assets and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. We may not be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions pursuant to our right of first offer, and Andeavor is under no obligation to accept any offer that we may choose to make. In addition, certain of the assets covered by our right of first offer may require substantial capital expenditures in order to maintain compliance with applicable regulatory requirements or otherwise make them suitable for our commercial needs. For these or a variety of other reasons, we may decide not to exercise our right of first offer if and when any assets are offered for sale, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval. In addition, Andeavor may terminate our right of first offer if it no longer controls our general partner.. In addition to the assets with respect to which we have a right of first offer, Andeavor has sold to us additional logistics assets that it developed or acquired from third parties. However, we cannot provide assurance of Andeavor's continued willingness to offer these types of assets for sale, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements and commercial agreements with respect to the assets or our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms.. A material decrease in our customers' profitability could materially reduce the volumes of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and NGLs that we handle, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. The volume of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and NGLs that we distribute and store at our terminals, transport and process depends substantially on Andeavor's and other customers' profit margins, the market price of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and other refinery feedstocks, and product demand. These prices are impacted by numerous factors beyond our control or the control of Andeavor and other third-party customers. Such factors include product margins and the global supply and demand for crude oil, natural gas, NGLs, gasoline and other refined products.. A material decrease in the crude oil or natural gas produced in the midwestern United States area could materially reduce the volume of crude oil gathered and transported by our High Plains System or the volume of natural gas gathered, processed, transported and fractionated by our Rockies, Southwest and Bakken Region assets.. The volume of crude oil that we gather and transport on our High Plains System in excess of committed volumes depends on demand for crude oil. This depends, in part, on the availability of attractively-priced, high-quality crude oil produced in the Bakken Region. Similarly, the volume of natural gas that we gather, process, and transport, and the volume of NGLs that we fractionate. 16 |. Risk Factors. in our Rockies and Bakken Region assets depends on the volume of natural gas and NGLs produced in the Green River, Uinta and Williston basins. Adverse developments in these regions could have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than those of our competitors because of our lack of geographic diversity and substantial reliance on several major customers. Accordingly, in addition to general industry risks related to these operations, we may be disproportionately exposed to risks in the area, including:. • the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials;. • the availability of drilling rigs for producers;. • weather-related curtailment of operations by producers and disruptions to truck gathering operations;. • the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation, including regulations related to the exploration, production and transportation of shale oil and natural gas, including hydraulic fracturing and natural gas flaring and rail transportation;. • the development of third-party crude oil or natural gas gathering systems that could impact the price and availability of crude oil or natural gas in these areas; and. • the anticipated future prices of crude oil, refined products, NGLs and natural gas in surrounding markets.. If as a result of any of these or other factors, the volume of crude oil, natural gas or NGLs available in these regions is materially reduced for a prolonged period of time, the volume of our throughputs and the related fees, could be materially reduced. In addition, the construction by third parties of new pipelines in areas in which we own or acquire rail loading or unloading facilities could impact the ability of our rail facilities to remain competitive, resulting in reduced throughput and fees.. If third-party pipelines or other midstream facilities connected to our crude oil, refined products, natural gas gathering or transportation systems become partially or fully unavailable, or if the volumes we gather or transport do not meet the quality specifications of such pipelines or facilities, our business, results of operations and financial conditions could be adversely effected.. Certain of our crude oil, refined products, natural gas gathering, processing and transportation systems connect to other pipelines or facilities owned and operated by third parties, such as the Kern River Gas Transmission Company Pipeline, the Northwest Pipeline, the Rockies Express Pipeline, Mid-America Pipeline and others. The continuing operation of such third-party pipelines and other midstream facilities is not within our control. These pipelines and other midstream facilities may become unavailable because of testing, turnarounds, line repair, weather damage, reduced operating pressure, lack of operating capacity, regulatory requirements and curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity or other operational issues. Reduction of capacities of these third-party pipelines could also result in reduced volumes transported on our pipelines. In addition, if our costs to access and transport on these third-party pipelines significantly increase, our profitability could be reduced. If any such increase in cost occurs, if any of these pipelines or other midstream facilities become unable to receive, transport or process the products, or if the volumes we gather or transport do not meet the quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our business is impacted by environmental risks inherent in our operations.. Our operation of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and produced water pipelines, and terminals and storage facilities is inherently subject to the risks of sudden or gradual spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or other regulated or hazardous substances. For example, in September 2013, we responded to a crude oil pipeline release of approximately 20,000 barrels in a rural field northeast of Tioga, North Dakota. Other spills, discharges and inadvertent releases may have previously occurred or could occur in the future; these releases could occur or may already have occurred at Andeavor's refineries, our pipelines, our terminals and facilities, or any other facility to which we send or have sent wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal. In any such incident, we could be liable, in some cases regardless of fault, for costs and penalties associated with the remediation of such facilities under federal, state and local environmental laws or the common law. We may also be liable for personal injury, property damage or claims from third parties alleging contamination from spills or releases from our facilities or operations.. With respect to assets that we acquired from Andeavor, our indemnification for certain environmental liabilities under the Amended Omnibus Agreement and the Carson Assets Indemnity Agreement with Andeavor is generally limited to liabilities identified prior to the earlier of the date that Andeavor no longer controls our general partner or five years after the date of purchase. Even if we are insured or indemnified against environmental risks, we may be responsible for costs or penalties to the extent our insurers or indemnitors do not fulfill their obligations to us. The payment of such costs or penalties could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Climate change and related legislation or regulation reducing emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur significant costs or could result in a decrease in demand for crude oil, refined products, natural gas and NGLs, which could adversely affect our business.. Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address reporting or reduction of greenhouse gas emissions have been adopted or are in various phases of discussion or implementation. Requiring reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could. December 31, 2017 | 17. Risk Factors. cause us to incur substantial costs to (1) operate and maintain our facilities, (2) install new emission controls at our facilities and (3) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including the acquisition or maintenance of emission credits or allowances. These requirements may also adversely affect the refinery, gas production and other operations of Andeavor and our other customers, leading to an indirect adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations.. In California, the state legislature adopted SB 32 in 2016. SB 32 set a cap on emissions of 40% below 1990 levels by 2030 but did not establish a particular mechanism to achieve that target. The legislature also adopted a companion bill, AB 197, that most significantly directs the California Air Resources Board to prioritize direct emission reductions on large stationary sources. In 2017, the state legislature adopted AB 398 which provides direction and parameters on utilizing cap and trade after 2020 to meet the 40% reduction target from 1990 levels by 2030 specified in SB 32. In 2009, CARB adopted the Low Carbon Fuel Standard (\"LCFS\"), which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of gasoline and diesel by 2020 and additional reductions beyond 2020 are anticipated. Compliance is demonstrated by blending lower carbon intensity biofuels into gasoline and diesel or by purchasing credits. Compliance with each of the cap and trade and LCFS programs is demonstrated through a market-based credit system.. Requiring a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and the increased use of renewable fuels could decrease demand for refined products, which could have an indirect, but material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the EPA has promulgated rules establishing greenhouse gas emission standards for new-model passenger cars, light-duty trucks and medium duty passenger vehicles. Concerns over climate change and related greenhouse gas emissions could affect demand for petroleum products as well as new energy technologies including electric vehicles, fuel cells and battery storage systems and transportation alternatives. Any of these developments, or new taxes or fees imposed on crude oil, natural gas or refined products to fund clean energy initiatives at the state or federal level, could have an indirect adverse effect on our business due to reduced demand for crude oil, refined products, natural gas and NGLs.. In addition, scientific studies have indicated that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere can produce changes in climate with significant physical effects, including increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other extreme weather events that could affect our operations. Increased concern over the effects of climate change may also affect our customers' energy strategies, consumer consumption patterns and government and private sector alternative energy initiatives, any of which could adversely affect demand for petroleum products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our assets and operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and safety that could require us to make substantial expenditures.. Our assets and operations involve the transportation and storage of crude oil and refined products, as well as the gathering, conditioning, processing and treating of natural gas and the fractionation of NGLs, which are subject to increasingly stringent and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and regulations governing facility operations, the discharge of materials into the environment and operational safety matters. We also own or lease a number of properties that have been used to gather, transport, store or distribute natural gas, produced water, crude oil and refined products for many years, and many of these properties have been operated by third parties whose handling, disposal, or release of hydrocarbons and other wastes were not under our control and may have operated in prior periods when environmental practices were less rigorous. Our sites, including storage tanks, wharf and dock operations, pipelines, processing plants, dehydrators, compressor stations and facility loading racks are also subject to federal, state and local regulation of air emissions and wastewater discharges. We may be required to address the release of regulated substances into the environment or other conditions discovered in the future that require environmental response actions or remediation. To the extent not covered by insurance or an indemnity, responding to such conditions may cause us to incur potentially material expenditures for response actions, for government penalties, for claims for damages to natural resources, for personal injury or property damage claims from third parties and for business interruption.. Transportation and storage of crude oil and refined products over or under water or proximate to navigable or environmentally sensitive bodies of water occurs at many of our facilities. Such activity involves inherent risks and subjects us to the provisions of OPA 90 or similar state environmental laws that impose significant oil spill prevention and response obligations and can impose material cleanup liabilities without regard to fault for oil pollution in U.S. waters. To address the requirements of these laws, we have contracts with Andeavor, who contracts with third parties to provide coverage in the areas in which we transport or store crude oil and refined products; however, these companies may not be able to adequately contain a worst case discharge, being a spill of up to 125,000 barrels of crude oil from an above ground storage tank adjacent to water, and we cannot ensure that all of their services would be available for our or Andeavor's use at any given time. There are many factors that could inhibit the availability of these service providers, including weather conditions, governmental regulations and other global events that they may be required to respond to by state or federal ruling. In these and other cases, we may be subject to liability in connection with the discharge of crude oil, natural gas, or refined products into navigable waters.. On October 3, 2016, PHMSA issued an Interim Final Rule (IFR) establishing procedures for the authority to issue emergency orders to pipeline operators. This authority can be used by PHMSA to address an unsafe conditions or practices that pose an imminent hazard to the public health and safety. Since this authority has never been utilized, it is unknown how the agency will use this newly granted power. There are also significant pipeline safety rulemakings under consideration by PHMSA include the Hazardous Liquid. 18 |. Risk Factors. rule and Safety of Gas Transmission and Gathering Pipelines rule. The overall impact of these rules is uncertain as they have yet to be finalized.. Our business activities are subject to increasingly strict federal, state, and local laws and regulations that require our pipelines, compressor stations, terminals, processing complexes, fractionation plants and storage facilities to comply with extensive environmental, health and safety requirements regarding the design, installation, testing, construction, and operational management of our facilities. We could incur potentially significant additional expenses if any of our assets were found to be non-compliant. Additional proposals and proceedings that impact our industry are regularly considered by Congress, as well as by state legislatures and federal, regional and state regulatory commissions or agencies and courts. Environmental health and safety regulatory requirements have historically grown more stringent over time and any future environmental, health and safety requirements or changed interpretations of existing requirements may impose more stringent requirements on our assets and operations, which may require us to incur potentially material expenditures to ensure continued compliance. The violation of such requirements could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities, permit restrictions or revocation, and the issuance of injunctions that may limit our operations, subject us to additional operational constraints or prevent or delay construction of additional facilities or equipment. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Many of our assets have been in service for many years and, as a result, our maintenance or repair costs may increase in the future.. Our pipelines, terminals, fractionator and storage assets are generally long-lived assets, and many of them have been in service for many years. The age and condition of our assets could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures in the future. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business, and the failure of any critical information system, including a cyber-security breach, may harm our business.. We depend heavily on technology infrastructure and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include data networks, telecommunications, cloud-based information controls, software applications and hardware, including those that are critical to the operation of our pipelines, terminals, processing facilities and other operations. Our technology infrastructure and information systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including unauthorized intrusions, cyber-attacks, software viruses or other malware, natural disasters, power failures, employee error or malfeasances and other events. No cybersecurity or emergency recovery processes is failsafe, and if our safeguards fail or our data or technology infrastructure is compromised, the safety and efficiency of our operations could be materially harmed, our reputation could suffer, and we could face additional costs, liabilities, and costly legal challenges, including those involving privacy of customer data. In addition, legislation and regulation relating to cyber-security threats could impose additional requirements on our operations. Finally, we may be required to incur additional costs to modify or enhance our systems to prevent or remediate the types of cyber incidents that continue to evolve.. Andeavor is in the process of completing an enterprise resource planning project which aims to simplify business processes by implementing a standardized and scalable technology platform. Large information systems and business process transformations such as this one are complex and require significant investments in system software, business process development and employee resources. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if Andeavor experiences operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages or service limitations.. Our expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets may not increase revenue and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. We continue to evaluate opportunities for organic expansion projects and the construction of additional assets, such as our terminal expansions, and our pipeline connections in the Bakken and Permian regions. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule at the budgeted cost or at all. The expansion or construction of new pipelines, processing plants or terminals involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. For example, some pipeline construction projects have faced nationwide protests that have halted and delayed construction. If we are targeted for protests, it could materially affect our ability to carry out our capital projects. Construction is also impacted by the availability of specialized contractors and laborers and the price and demand for materials. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. Moreover, we may not receive sufficient long-term contractual commitments from customers to provide the revenue needed to support such projects and we may be unable to negotiate acceptable interconnection agreements with third-party pipelines to provide destinations for increased throughput. Even if we receive such commitments or make such interconnections, we may not realize an increase in revenue for an extended period of time. We may also construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize, resulting in less than anticipated throughput and a failure to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. December 31, 2017 | 19. Risk Factors. Our pipelines are subject to state regulation that could materially and adversely affect our operations and cash flows.. In addition to safety and environmental regulations, certain of our pipelines are also subject to non-discriminatory take requirements and complaint-based state regulation with respect to rates and terms and conditions of service. State and local regulation may cause us to incur additional costs or limit our operations and may prevent us from choosing the customers to which we provide service, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our operations and revenue.. Pipeline rate regulation, changes to pipeline rate-making rules, or a successful challenge to the pipeline rates we charge may reduce our revenues and the amount of cash we generate.. The FERC regulates the tariff rates for interstate movements and state regulatory authorities regulate the tariff rates for intrastate movements on our crude oil, refined product, natural gas, and NGLs pipeline systems. The regulatory agencies periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of services subject to their jurisdiction. New initiatives or orders may adversely affect the rates charged for our services.. The FERC's primary rate-making methodology is currently price-indexing; if the methodology changes, the new methodology could result in tariffs that generate lower revenues and cash flow. The indexing method allows a pipeline to increase its rates based on a percentage change in the producer price index for finished goods and is not based on pipeline-specific costs. If the index falls, we will be required to reduce our rates that are based on the FERC's price indexing methodology if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate. In addition, changes in the index might not be large enough to fully reflect actual increases in our costs. The FERC's rate-making methodologies may limit our ability to set rates based on our true costs or may delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our revenues and cash flow.. If a party with an economic interest were to file either a protest of our proposal for increased rates or a complaint against our existing tariff rates, or the if FERC or a state regulatory agency were to initiate an investigation of our existing rates, then our rates could be subject to detailed review. If our present rates are challenged by a shipper, or if our proposed rate increases were found to be in excess of levels justified by our cost of service, the FERC or a state regulatory agency could order us to reduce our rates. If our existing rates were found to be in excess of our cost of service, we could be ordered to reduce our rates prospectively and refund the excess we collected for as far back as two years prior to the date of the filing of a FERC complaint challenging the rates. Refunds could also be ordered for intrastate rates, but the refund periods vary under state laws. If any challenge to committed intrastate rates for priority service on our High Plains Pipeline tariffs were successful, Andeavor's minimum volume commitment under our High Plains Pipeline intrastate Transportation Services Agreement could be invalidated, and the intrastate volumes shipped on our High Plains Pipeline would be at the lower uncommitted tariff rate. Any such reductions may lower revenues and cash flows if additional volumes and / or capacity are unavailable to offset such rate reductions, adversely affecting our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations.. We cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of transportation on our pipelines and related facilities will remain unchanged. Should circumstances change, then current non-FERC jurisdictional transportation could be found to be FERC-jurisdictional. In that case, the FERC's ratemaking methodologies may limit our ability to set rates based on our actual costs, delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs, and subject us to potentially burdensome and expensive operational, reporting and other requirements. In addition, the provisions of our High Plains Pipeline Transportation Services Agreement regarding our agreement to provide, and Andeavor's agreement to purchase, certain crude oil volume losses could be viewed as a preference to Andeavor and could result in negation of that provision and possible penalties.. A change in our natural gas-gathering assets, or a change in FERC policy, could increase regulation of our natural gas-gathering assets, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Natural gas gathering facilities are expressly exempted from the FERC's jurisdiction under the NGA. Although the FERC has not made any formal determinations with respect to all of our natural gas-gathering facilities we believe that our natural gas gathering pipelines meet the traditional tests that the FERC has used to determine if a pipeline is a gathering pipeline, and are therefore not subject to the FERC's jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of substantial litigation and, over time, the FERC's policy for determining which facilities it regulates has changed. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission facilities, on the one hand, and gathering facilities, on the other, is a fact-based determination made by the FERC on a case-by-case basis. If the FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and properly determine that the facility or services provided by it are subject to regulation by the FERC under the NGA or the NGPA, then such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs and, depending upon the facility in question, adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA or NGPA, this could result in the imposition of civil penalties, a requirement to return certain profits (including charges collected for such service in excess of the rate established by the FERC), loss of the ability to charge market-based rates for FERC jurisdictional services and enjoinment from engaging in certain future activities, any of which could negatively impact our business.. 20 |. Risk Factors. We own an interstate gas pipeline company, Rendezvous Pipeline, which is regulated by the FERC as a transmission pipeline under the NGA. The FERC has approved market-based rates for Rendezvous Pipeline allowing it to charge rates that customers will accept. The FERC has also established rules, policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, policies on open access transportation, construction of new facilities, market transparency, market manipulation, ratemaking, capacity release, segmentation and market center promotion, which both directly and indirectly affect our business, and could materially and adversely affect our operations and revenues.. If Andeavor or other customers satisfy only their minimum obligations under our commercial agreements, or if we are unable to renew or extend, the various commercial agreements we have, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely impacted.. Our commercial agreements require Andeavor and certain third-party customers to provide us with minimum throughput volumes at our terminals and on certain pipelines, but they are not obligated to use our services with respect to volumes of crude oil, natural gas or refined products in excess of the minimum volume commitments. Nothing prohibits Andeavor or other customers from utilizing third-party terminals and pipelines to handle volumes above the minimum committed volumes. At certain of our locations, third-party terminals and pipelines may be able to offer services at more competitive rates or on a more reliable basis. In addition, the initial terms of Andeavor's obligations under those agreements range from five to ten years. If Andeavor or other customers fail to use our facilities and services after expiration of those agreements and we are unable to generate additional revenues from third parties, our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders may be reduced.. If we are unable to diversify our customer base, or if Andeavor or one of our significant customers does not satisfy its obligations under our agreements or significantly reduces the volumes we are hired to transport, process or store, our revenues would decline and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders would be adversely affected.. Our largest customer, Andeavor, accounted for 44% of our total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2017. We expect to derive a significant amount of our revenues from Andeavor and other key customers for the foreseeable future. This customer concentration makes us subject to the risk of nonpayment, nonperformance, re-negotiation of terms or non-renewal by these major customers under our commercial agreements. Furthermore, any event in our areas of operation or otherwise that materially and adversely affects the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of one of these major customers may adversely affect our ability to sustain or increase cash distributions to our unitholders. Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the operational and business risks of these major customers (including Andeavor), some of which are related to the following:. • the risk of contract cancellation, non-renewal or failure to perform by their customers;. • disruptions due to equipment interruption or failure at their facilities or at third-party facilities on which their business is dependent;. • the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices and demand for their refined products, natural gas and NGLs, and the availability and market price of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks;. • their ability to remain in compliance with the terms of their outstanding indebtedness;. • changes in the cost or availability of third-party pipelines, terminals and other means of delivering and transporting crude oil, natural gas and NGLs, feedstocks and refined products;. • state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations and any changes in those policies and regulations;. • environmental incidents and violations and related remediation costs, fines and other liabilities; and. • changes in crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and refined product inventory levels and carrying costs.. Our ability to increase our non-Andeavor third-party revenue is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including competition from other logistics providers, and the extent to which we have available capacity when potential customers require it. For example, our High Plains System may be unable to compete effectively with existing and future third-party crude oil gathering systems and trucking operations in the Bakken Region. Our ability to obtain third-party customers on our High Plains System is also dependent on our ability to make further inlet connections from and outlet connections to third-party facilities and pipelines. There are also competitors in the area of our natural gas gathering and processing facilities, and we may be unable to compete effectively in obtaining new supplies of gas for these operations.. We may not be able to attract material third-party service opportunities. Our efforts to attract new customers may be adversely affected by our relationship with Andeavor, our desire to provide services pursuant to fee-based contracts and Andeavor's operational requirements with respect to our assets. Our potential customers may prefer to obtain services under other forms of contractual arrangements, under which we could be required to assume direct commodity exposure.. December 31, 2017 | 21. Risk Factors. Some of the gathering and processing agreements of the Rockies Natural Gas Business contain provisions that may reduce the cash flow stability that the agreements were designed to achieve.. Several of the gathering and processing agreements of the natural gas and crude oil gathering and processing operations contain minimum volume commitments that are designed to generate stable cash flows to the Rockies Natural Gas Business, while also minimizing direct commodity price risk. Under these minimum volume commitments, the customers of the Rockies Natural Gas Business agree to ship a minimum volume of natural gas on its gathering systems or to process a minimum volume of natural gas at its processing complexes over certain periods during the term of the agreement. In addition, certain of the gathering and processing agreements of the Rockies Natural Gas Business also include an aggregate minimum volume commitment over the total life of the agreement. In these cases, once a customer achieves its aggregate minimum volume commitment, any remaining future minimum volume commitments will terminate and the customer will then simply pay the applicable gathering or processing rate multiplied by the actual throughput volumes shipped or volumes processed.. If a customer's actual throughput volumes are less than its minimum volume commitment for the applicable period, it must make a deficiency payment at the end of the applicable period. The amount of the deficiency payment is based on the difference between the actual throughput volume shipped or processed for the applicable period and the minimum volume commitment for the applicable period, multiplied by the applicable gathering or processing fee. To the extent that a customer's actual throughput volumes or volumes processed are above or below its minimum volume commitment for the applicable period, several of the gathering and processing agreements with minimum volume commitments contain provisions that allow the customer to use the excess volumes or the shortfall payment to credit against future excess volumes or future shortfall payments in subsequent periods. Under certain circumstances, some or all of these provisions can apply in combination with one another. It is possible that the combined effect of these mechanisms could reduce revenue or cash flows from one or more customers in a given period.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines, processing plants and terminals are located, which could disrupt our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines, terminals and natural gas gathering and processing assets are located, but rather obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines, processing plants and terminals on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Therefore, we are subject to the possibility of more burdensome terms and increased costs to retain necessary land use if our leases and rights-of-way lapse or terminate or it is determined that we do not have valid leases or rights-of-way. Our loss of these rights, including loss through our inability to renew leases or right-of-way contracts on satisfactory terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Certain of our crude oil and natural gas gathering facilities are located on Native American tribal lands and are subject to various federal and tribal approvals and regulations, which may increase our costs and delay or prevent our efforts to conduct planned operations.. Various federal agencies within the U.S. Department of the Interior, particularly the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Bureau of Land Management, and the Office of Natural Resources Revenue, along with each Native American tribe, regulate natural gas and oil operations on Native American tribal lands, including drilling and production requirements and environmental standards. In addition, each Native American tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce laws and regulations and to grant approvals independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. These tribal laws and regulations include various taxes, fees, requirements to employ Native American tribal members and other conditions that apply to operators and contractors conducting operations on Native American tribal lands. Persons conducting operations on tribal lands are generally subject to the Native American tribal court system. In addition, if our relationships with any of the relevant Native American tribes were to deteriorate, we could face significant risks to our ability to continue operations on Native American tribal lands. One or more of these factors may increase our cost of doing business on Native American tribal lands and impact the viability of, or prevent or delay our ability to conduct our natural gas and oil gathering and transmission operations on such lands.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. Variable-rate debt, such as borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, exposes us to short-term changes in market rates that impact our interest expense. Fixed rate debt, such as our senior notes, exposes us to changes in the fair value of our debt due to changes in market interest rates. Fixed rate debt also exposes us to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates, or that we may be obligated to rates higher than the current market.. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price will be impacted by our cash distributions and the implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may impact the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. 22 |. Risk Factors. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $4.2 billion aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding, and we may incur significant additional debt obligations in the future. For example, in November 2017, we issued an additional $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes, the proceeds of which were used to, among other things, redeem all of our outstanding 5.875% Senior Notes due 2020 and 6.125% Senior Notes due 2021 and repay borrowings under our Dropdown Credit Facility. Our existing and future indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including, without limitation, impairing our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other general partnership purposes or our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. In addition, we will have to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal, premium (if any for our Senior Notes) and interest on the Senior Notes and our other indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes. Our level of indebtedness will also make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse industry conditions, and may compromise our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures as compared to our competitors.. Andeavor's indebtedness and credit ratings could adversely affect our business, credit rating, ability to obtain credit in the future and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. Andeavor must devote a portion of its cash flows from operating activities to service its indebtedness, and therefore cash flows may not be available for use in pursuing its growth strategy. Furthermore, in the event that Andeavor were to default under certain of its debt obligations, there is a risk that Andeavor's creditors would attempt to assert claims against our assets during the litigation of their claims against Andeavor. The defense of any such claims could be costly and could materially impact our financial condition, even absent any adverse determination. In the event these claims were successful, our ability to meet our obligations to our creditors, make distributions and finance our operations could be materially adversely affected.. Credit rating agencies considered, and are likely to continue considering, Andeavor's debt ratings when assigning ours because of Andeavor's ownership interest in us, the significant commercial relationships between Andeavor and us, and our reliance on Andeavor for a substantial portion of our revenues. If one or more credit rating agencies were to downgrade the outstanding indebtedness of Andeavor, we could experience an increase in our borrowing costs or difficulty accessing the capital markets. Such a development could adversely affect our ability to grow our business and to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs.. The domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions could be disrupted and are volatile from time to time due to a variety of factors, including crude oil and natural gas prices, geoeconomic and geopolitical issues, unemployment rates, weak economic conditions and uncertainty in the financial services sector. In addition, there are fewer investors and lenders willing to invest in the debt and equity capital markets in issuances by master limited partnerships than there are for more traditionally structured corporations. As a result, the cost of raising capital in the debt and equity capital markets could increase substantially or the availability of funds from these markets could diminish. The cost of obtaining funds from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease, to provide funding to borrowers.. In addition, lending counterparties under existing revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. Certain lenders may determine not to lend to us due to the industry in which we operate, or other factors beyond our control. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or construction projects or take advantage of other business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. Our distributions may fluctuate, and we may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay quarterly distributions to our unitholders at current levels or to increase our quarterly distributions in the future.. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the following:. • the volume of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and refined products that we handle;. • the tariff rates with respect to volumes we transport on our pipelines (including whether such tariffs are for long-haul or short-haul segments);. • the terminalling, trucking, processing and storage fees with respect to non-pipeline volumes we handle;. December 31, 2017 | 23. Risk Factors. • the mix of gathering, processing, transportation and storage services we provide; and. • prevailing economic conditions.. In addition, the actual amount of cash we have available for distribution will also depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • the amount of our operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to or from Andeavor with respect to those expenses and payment of an annual corporate services fee to Andeavor;. • the amount of our capital expenditures;. • the volatility in capital markets at the time of new debt or equity issuances;. • the timing of distributions on new unit issuances relating to acquisitions;. • the cost of acquisitions, if any;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. • restrictions contained in our credit facilities and other debt service requirements;. • an uninsured catastrophic loss;. • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and. • other business risks impacting our cash levels.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses, and we may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings.. Our debt obligations and restrictions in our Revolving Credit Facility, Dropdown Credit Facility, senior notes and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our unitholders and the value of our units.. We are dependent upon the earnings and cash flow generated by our operations to meet our debt service obligations and to allow us to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Funds available for our operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt. Furthermore, the provisions of our Revolving Credit Facility, Dropdown Credit Facility and senior notes, and any other debt we incur, may restrict our ability to obtain future financing and our ability to expand business activities or pursue attractive business opportunities. They may also restrict our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. Our debt obligations contain covenants that require us to maintain certain interest coverage and leverage ratios. Our Revolving Credit Facility, Dropdown Credit Facility and senior notes also contain covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our ability (as well as the ability of our subsidiaries) to:. • make certain cash distributions;. • incur certain indebtedness;. • incur certain liens;. • make certain investments;. • dispose of assets in excess of certain amounts;. • engage in certain mergers or consolidations and transfers of assets; and. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates.. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we may reduce distributions, reduce or delay our business activities, investments or capital expenditures, sell assets or issue equity. We may not be able to complete any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. Furthermore, a failure to comply with the provisions of our debt obligations could result in an event of default, which could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, our lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such debt. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under any other debt instruments we may have could be triggered, and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full. As a result, the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment.. 24 |. Risk Factors. Our business may be negatively impacted by work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by TLGP or Andeavor employees.. Any work stoppage by Andeavor employees who provide services to us pursuant to the First Amended and Restated Secondment and Logistics Services Agreement (the \"Secondment Agreement\") or the Amended Omnibus Agreement may have a negative impact on our business. Additionally, Andeavor is a significant customer and any strike action or work stoppage at any of Andeavor's facilities may result in us only receiving the minimum volume commitments under certain contracts, which could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of the assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future, or in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions.. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. The acquisition components of our growth strategy depend on the successful integration of acquisitions. We face numerous risks and challenges to successful integration of acquired businesses, including the following:. • the potential for unexpected costs, delays and challenges that may arise in integrating acquisitions into our existing business;. • limitations on our ability to realize the expected cost savings and synergies from an acquisition;. • challenges related to integrating acquired operations that have management teams and company cultures that differ from our own;. • challenges related to the integration of businesses that operate in new geographic areas, including difficulties in identifying and gaining access to customers in new markets;. • difficulties of managing operations outside of our existing core business, which may require development of additional skills and competencies; and. • discovery of previously unknown liabilities following an acquisition with the acquired business or assets for which we cannot receive reimbursement under applicable indemnification provisions.. Andeavor may suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations under our commercial agreements and our Secondment Agreement in some circumstances, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders.. Our commercial agreements and Secondment Agreement with Andeavor include provisions that permit Andeavor to suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations under the applicable agreement if certain events occur. These events include a material breach of the agreement by us and certain force majeure events that would prevent us from performing required services under the commercial agreements. With respect to many of our facilities, these events also include the possibility that Andeavor may decide to permanently or indefinitely suspend refining operations at one or more of its refineries. Andeavor has the discretion to make such decisions notwithstanding the fact that they may significantly and adversely affect us.. In the event of a force majeure event under the commercial agreements, Andeavor's and our obligations under these agreements will be proportionately reduced or suspended to the extent that we are unable to perform. As defined in our commercial agreements and in the Secondment Agreement, force majeure events include any acts or occurrences that prevent services from being performed under the applicable agreement, such as:. • acts of God, fires, floods or storms;. • compliance with orders of courts or any governmental authority;. • explosions, wars, terrorist acts, riots, strikes, lockouts or other industrial disturbances;. • accidental disruption of service;. • breakdown of machinery, storage tanks or pipelines and inability to obtain or unavoidable delay in obtaining material or equipment; and. • similar events or circumstances, so long as such events or circumstances are beyond our reasonable control and could not have been prevented by our due diligence.. Any of these events could result in our no longer being required to transport or distribute Andeavor's minimum throughput commitments on our pipelines or terminals, respectively, and in Andeavor no longer being required to pay the full amount of fees that would have been associated with its minimum throughput commitments. These actions could result in a reduction or suspension of Andeavor's obligations under one or more of our commercial agreements, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders.. December 31, 2017 | 25. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Partnership Structure. Andeavor owns our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner has limited fiduciary duties, and it and its affiliates, including Andeavor, may have conflicts of interest with us and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our common unitholders.. As of February 15, 2018, Andeavor and its affiliates own an approximate 59% interest in us and control our general partner. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in the manner that is beneficial to its owner, Andeavor. Conflicts of interest may arise between Andeavor and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, the general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including Andeavor, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations:. • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Andeavor to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, which could involve decisions by Andeavor to increase or decrease refinery production, connect our pipeline systems to third-party delivery points, shut down or reconfigure a refinery, or pursue and grow particular markets. Andeavor's directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Andeavor;. • Andeavor, as our largest customer, may have an economic incentive to cause us to not seek higher tariff rates, trucking fees or terminalling fees, even if such higher rates or fees would reflect rates and fees that could be obtained in arm's-length, third-party transactions;. • Andeavor may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests;. • Our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting its liability and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;. • Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of many of our cash expenditures and whether a cash expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner and the amount of adjusted operating surplus in any given period;. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us;. • Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions;. • Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to classify up to $30 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus;. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. • Our general partner has limited and may continue to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;. • Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 75% of the common units, which could require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time and price, potentially resulting in no return on their investment or a tax liability on the sale of their units;. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including our commercial agreements with Andeavor; and. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants, or others to perform services for us.. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Other than as provided in our Amended Omnibus Agreement with Andeavor, any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. 26 |. Risk Factors. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. Our general partner's discretion in establishing cash reserves may also reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would increase interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. The partnership agreement also requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders.. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders.. Additionally, our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law.. For example, our partnership agreement:. • provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, which requires that it believed that the decision was in, or not opposed to, the best interest of our partnership;. • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and nonappealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal;. • provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our conflicts committee or approved by a vote of a majority of outstanding common units, but is entered into in good faith by our general partner and is on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved; and. • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it is presumed that in making its decision the general partner acted in good faith and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. Cost reimbursements and fees due our general partner and its affiliates for services provided are substantial and reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders.. Under our partnership agreement, we are required to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all costs and expenses that they incur on our behalf for managing and controlling our business and operations. Except to the extent specified under our. December 31, 2017 | 27. Risk Factors. Amended Omnibus Agreement or our Secondment Agreement, our general partner determines the amount of these expenses. Under the terms of the Amended Omnibus Agreement, we are required to pay Andeavor an annual corporate services fee, currently $13 million, for the provision of various centralized corporate services. Under the terms of our Secondment Agreement, we pay Andeavor a net annual service fee, currently $29 million, for services performed by field-level employees at the majority of the facilities acquired from Andeavor. We reimburse Andeavor for any direct costs actually incurred by Andeavor in providing other operational services with respect to certain of our other assets and operations. Our general partner and its affiliates may also provide us other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner. Payments to our general partner and its affiliates are substantial and reduce the amount of available cash for distribution to unitholders.. Unitholders have very limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, their ability to remove our general partner without its consent is limited.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. The Board is chosen by the members of our general partner. Andeavor is currently the sole member of our general partner. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, their ability to remove our general partner is limited. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common units is required to remove our general partner. Our general partner and its affiliates currently own approximately 59% of our outstanding common units and, as a result, our public unitholders cannot remove our general partners without its consent. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our Board, cannot vote on any matter.. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of Andeavor to transfer its membership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new partners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the Board and officers of our general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers.. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, including units that are senior to the common units and/or pari passu with our 6.875% Series A Fixed-to-Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Units (the \"Preferred Units\"), which would dilute unitholder interests.. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders. Further, neither our partnership agreement nor our Revolving Credit Facility prohibits the issuance of equity securities that may effectively rank senior to our common units, including additional Preferred Units and any securities in parity with the Preferred Units without any vote of the holders of the Preferred Units (except where the cumulative distributions on the Preferred Units or any parity securities are in arrears and in certain other circumstances) and without the approval of our common unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of our common units and Preferred Units may decline.. Additionally, although holders of the Preferred Units, like holders of our common units, are entitled to limited voting rights, with respect to certain matters the Preferred Units generally vote separately as a class along with all other series of our parity securities that we may issue upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable. As a result, the voting rights of holders of Preferred Units may be significantly diluted, and the holders of such other series of parity securities that we may issue may be able to control or significantly influence the outcome of any vote. The issuance of additional units on parity with or senior to the Preferred Units (including additional Preferred Units of the same series) would dilute the interests of the holders of the Preferred Units, and any issuance of equity securities of any class or series that ranks on parity with the Preferred Units as to the payment of distributions and amounts payable upon a liquidation event (including additional Preferred Units of the same series) or equity securities with terms expressly made senior to the Preferred Units as to the payment of distributions and. 28 |. Risk Factors. amounts payable upon a liquidation event or additional indebtedness could affect our ability to pay distributions on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on the Preferred Units. Only the change of control conversion right relating to the Preferred Units set forth in our partnership agreement protects the holders of the Preferred Units in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all of our assets or business, which might adversely affect the holders of the Preferred Units.. The payment of distributions on any additional units may increase the risk that we will not be able to make distributions at our prior per unit distribution levels. To the extent new units are senior to our common units, their issuance will increase the uncertainty of the payment of distributions on our common units.. If we do not pay distributions on our Preferred Units in any fiscal quarter, we will be unable to pay distributions on our common units until all unpaid Preferred Unit distributions have been paid, and our common unitholders are not entitled to receive distributions for such prior period.. The Preferred Units rank senior to our common units with respect to distribution rights and rights upon liquidation. If we do not pay the required distributions on our Preferred Units, we will be unable to pay distributions on our common units. Additionally, because distributions to our Preferred Unitholders are cumulative, we will have to pay all unpaid accumulated preferred distributions before we can pay any distributions to our common unitholders. Also, because distributions to our common unitholders are not cumulative, if we do not pay distributions on our common units with respect to any quarter, our common unitholders will not be entitled to receive distributions covering any prior periods. The preferences and privileges of the Preferred Units could adversely affect the market price for our common units, or could make it more difficult for us to sell our common units in the future.. Andeavor may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. As of February 15, 2018, Andeavor holds 127,889,386 common units. Additionally, we have agreed to provide Andeavor with certain registration rights. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop.. Affiliates of our general partner, including Andeavor, may compete with us.. Andeavor and its affiliates are not restricted from competing with us, except under certain circumstances. Under our Amended Omnibus Agreement, Andeavor and its affiliates generally may not own or operate crude oil or refined products pipelines, terminals or storage facilities in the U.S. that are not within, directly connected to, substantially dedicated to, or otherwise an integral part of, any refinery owned, acquired or constructed by Andeavor. This restriction, however, does not apply to:. • any assets that were owned by Andeavor at the closing of our initial public offering (including replacements or expansions of those assets);. • any assets acquired or constructed by Andeavor to replace one of our assets that no longer provides services to Andeavor due to the occurrence of a force majeure event under one of our commercial agreements with Andeavor that prevents us from providing services under such agreement;. • any asset or business that Andeavor acquires or constructs that has a fair market value of less than $5 million; and. • any asset or business that Andeavor acquires or constructs that has a fair market value of $5 million or more if we have been offered the opportunity to purchase the asset or business for fair market value not later than six months after completion of such acquisition or construction, and we decline to do so.. As a result, Andeavor has the ability to construct assets, which directly compete with our assets so long as they are integral to a refinery owned by Andeavor. The limitations on the ability of Andeavor to compete with us are terminable by either party if Andeavor ceases to control our general partner.. Unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions. The unitholder could be liable for our obligations as if he were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • his right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute control of our business.. December 31, 2017 | 29. Risk Factors. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units or Preferred Units are liable for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. Our unitholders who fail to furnish certain information requested by our general partner or who our general partner, upon receipt of such information, determines are not eligible citizens may not be entitled to receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation and their common units or Preferred Units will be subject to redemption.. Our general partner may require each limited partner to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or related status. If a limited partner fails to furnish this information within 30 days after a request for the information or our general partner determines after receipt of the information that the limited partner is not an eligible U.S. citizen, the limited partner may be treated as a non-citizen assignee. A non-citizen assignee does not have the right to direct the voting of his units and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation. Furthermore, we have the right to redeem all of the common units or Preferred Units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen or fails to furnish the requested information. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner.. Common units held by persons who are non-taxpaying assignees will be subject to the possibility of redemption.. To avoid any adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates chargeable to customers by us under FERC regulations, or in order to reverse an adverse determination that has occurred regarding such maximum rate, our partnership agreement gives our general partner the power to amend the agreement. If our general partner determines that we are not being treated as an association taxable as a corporation or otherwise taxable as an entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, coupled with the tax status (or lack of proof thereof) of one or more of our limited partners, has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates chargeable to customers by us, then our general partner may adopt such amendments to our partnership agreement as it determines are necessary or advisable to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status of our limited partners (and their owners, to the extent relevant) and permit us to redeem the units held by any person whose tax status has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates or who fails to comply with the procedures instituted by our general partner to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders and Preferred Unitholders. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation as well as future U.S. tax legislations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law Public Law No. 115-97, a comprehensive tax reform bill commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") that makes significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws. Among other changes, the Tax Act (i) introduces a new deduction on certain pass-through income, (ii) repeals the partnership technical termination rule and (iii) imposes a new limitation on the deductibility of interest expense. The Tax Act is complex and far-reaching and we have not completed our analysis of the impact its enactment has on us. There may be other material adverse effects resulting from the Tax Act that we have not identified and that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. 30 |. Risk Factors. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal and state income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, or if we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us.. It is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, there would be material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Additionally, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders.. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation, affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us and change the character or treatment of portions of our income. From time to time, members of Congress have proposed and considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would adversely affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships, including the elimination of partnership tax treatment for publicly traded partnerships. For example, on May 5, 2015, the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS released proposed regulations regarding qualifying income under Section 7704(d)(1)(E) of the Internal Revenue Code. On January 24, 2017, final regulations were published. We believe the income that we treat as qualifying income satisfies the requirements for qualifying income under both the proposed regulations and the final regulations. However, we are unable to predict whether any future changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws will be enacted that could adversely affect us.. Our unitholders' share of our income will be taxable to them for federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Because a unitholder will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income, which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on its share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units or Preferred Units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS. December 31, 2017 | 31. Risk Factors. will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units or Preferred Units could be more or less than expected.. A unitholder that sells units will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and the tax basis in those units. Because distributions in excess of the unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the tax basis in our common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units sold will, in effect, become taxable income if sold at a price greater than the tax basis, even if the price received is less than the original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, if the partnership has nonrecourse liabilities, the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities. In that case, a unitholder selling common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units or Preferred Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in common units or Preferred Units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (\"IRAs\"), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. A tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person should consult a tax adviser before investing in our common units or Preferred Units.. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available. It could also affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of taxable income from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose common units or Preferred Units are loaned to a short seller to affect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose common units or Preferred Units are loaned to a short seller to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax adviser to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their units.. 32 |. Risk Factors. We will adopt certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It could also affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. As a result of investing in our common units or Preferred Units, unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. Many of the states in which we operate currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is the unitholder's responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns.. If we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties, and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Recently enacted legislation applicable to partnership tax years beginning after 2017 alters the procedures for auditing partnerships and for assessing and collecting U.S. federal income taxes due (including any applicable penalties and interest) as a result of an audit by the IRS. Under the new rules, unless we are eligible to (and do) elect to issue adjusted Schedules K-1 to our unitholders with respect to an audited and adjusted return, the IRS will assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us in the year in which the audit is completed. If we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties, and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during the audited taxable year. Pursuant to this new legislation, we will designate a person (our general partner) to act as the \"partnership representative\" who shall have the sole authority to act on our behalf with respect to dealings with the IRS under these new audit procedures.. Treatment of distributions on the Preferred Units as guaranteed payments for the use of capital creates a different tax treatment for the holders of the Preferred Units than the holders of our common units.. The tax treatment of distributions on the Preferred Units is uncertain. We will treat the holders of the Preferred Units as partners for tax purposes and will treat distributions on the Preferred Units as guaranteed payments for the use of capital that will generally be taxable to the holders of the Preferred Units as ordinary income. Although a holder of the Preferred Units could recognize taxable income from the accrual of such a guaranteed payment even in the absence of a contemporaneous distribution, we anticipate accruing and making the guaranteed payment distributions semi-annually or quarterly, as provided. The holders of the Preferred Units are generally not anticipated to share in the partnership's items of income, gain, loss or deduction, except to the extent necessary to provide, to the extent possible, the Preferred Units with the benefit of the liquidation preference."
