[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company's business.  Our financial and operating results are subject to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. These factors include those set forth below.  Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks.  Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. Many healthcare industry companies, including medical device companies, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. If we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the healthcare industry, our revenues would decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition, or cash flow would suffer.. We face intense competition in the medical device industry. We may be unable to compete effectively with respect to technological innovation and price which may have an adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. We may not be able to compete effectively, and we may lose market share to our competitors. Our primary device competitors include: Boston Scientific Corporation; Cook Medical; Medical Components, Inc. (Medcomp); TeleFlex Medical; BD Medical Technology; Smiths Medical, a subsidiary of Smiths Group plc; Medtronic; Merit Medical; Terumo Medical Corporation; Johnson and Johnson and Total Vein Systems.  Many of our competitors have substantially greater:. • financial and other resources to devote to product acquisitions, research and development, marketing and manufacturing;. • variety of products;. • technical capabilities;. • history of developing and introducing new products;. • patent portfolios that may present an obstacle to our conduct of business;. • name recognition; and. • distribution networks and in-house sales forces.. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products earlier, in obtaining patent protection or regulatory clearance earlier, or in commercializing new products or technologies more rapidly than us. Our competitors may also develop products and technologies that are superior to those we are developing or that otherwise could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may face competition from providers of other medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies, that may offer non-surgical therapies for conditions that are currently, or in the future, may be treated using our products. Our products are generally sold at higher prices than those of our competitors. However, in the current environment of managed care, which is characterized by economically motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, we are increasingly being required to compete on the basis of price. If we are not able to compete effectively, our market share and revenues may decline.. We face intense competition from other companies, and our inability to continue to effectively develop, acquire and/or market new products and technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. The medical device business is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. Our customers consider many factors when choosing among products, including features and reliability, quality, technology, clinical or economic outcomes, availability, price and services provided by the manufacturer. We face competition globally from a wide range of companies, some of which may have greater resources than us, which may enable them to adapt faster than us to customer needs or changes in customer requirements. Product introductions, alternative products or enhancements by competitors that provide better features, clinical outcomes or economic. 15. value and/or offer lower pricing may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. In addition, the trend of consolidation in the medical device industry and among our customers could result in greater competition and pricing pressures.. As a result, we engage in product development and improvement programs to maintain and improve our competitive position. These development and improvement programs involve significant investment in research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals and may require more time than anticipated to bring such products to market. We may not, however, be successful in enhancing existing products or developing new products or technologies that will achieve regulatory approval, be developed or manufactured in a cost effective manner, obtain appropriate intellectual property protection or receive market acceptance and we may be unable to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment in such products or technologies. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the size of the markets in which we compete will increase above existing levels or not decline, that we will be able to maintain, gain or regain market share or that we can compete effectively on the basis of price or that the number of procedures in which our products are used will increase above existing levels or not decline.. As part of our business strategy, we also pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses, technologies and products. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, consummate transactions or obtain agreements with favorable terms. Further, once a business is acquired, any inability to successfully integrate the business, decreases in customer loyalty or product orders, failure to retain and develop its workforce, failure to establish and maintain appropriate controls or unknown or contingent liabilities could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. The integration of an acquired business, whether or not successful, requires significant efforts which may result in additional expenses and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel from other projects. These transactions are inherently risky, and there can be no assurance that any past or future transaction will be successful. If we fail to develop and successfully manufacture and launch new products, generate satisfactory clinical results, provide sufficient economic value, enhance existing products, or identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses, technologies and products or if we experience a decrease in market size or market share or declines in average selling price or procedural volumes, or otherwise fail to compete effectively, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be adversely affected.. If we do not maintain our reputation with interventional physicians, interventional and surgical oncologists and critical care nurses our growth will be limited and our business could be harmed.. Physicians typically influence the medical device purchasing decisions of the hospitals and other healthcare institutions in which they practice. Consequently, our reputation with interventional physicians, interventional and surgical oncologists and critical care nursers is crucial to our continued growth. We believe that we have built a positive reputation based on the quality of our products, our physician-driven product development efforts, our marketing and training efforts and our presence at medical society meetings. Any actual or perceived diminution in the quality of our products, or our failure or inability to maintain these other efforts, could damage our reputation with interventional physicians and cause our growth to be limited and our business to be harmed.. If we fail to develop or market new products and enhance existing products, we could lose market share to our competitors and our results of operations could suffer.. The market for interventional devices is characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, technological improvements, changes in physician requirements and evolving industry standards. To be successful, we must continue to develop and commercialize new products and to enhance versions of our existing products. Our products are technologically complex and require significant research, planning, design, development and testing before they may be marketed. This process generally takes at least 12 to 18 months from initial concept and may take up to several years. In addition, product life cycles are relatively short because medical device manufacturers continually develop smaller, more effective and less expensive versions of existing devices in response to physician demand.. Our success in developing and commercializing new and enhanced versions of our products is affected by our ability to:. • recruit engineers;. • timely and accurately identify new market trends;. • accurately assess customer needs;. • minimize the time and costs required to obtain regulatory clearance or approval;. • adopt competitive pricing;. • timely manufacture and deliver products;. • accurately predict and control costs associated with the development, manufacturing and support of our products; and. 16. • anticipate and compete effectively with our competitors' efforts.. Market acceptance of our products depends in part on our ability to demonstrate that our products are cost-effective and easier to use, as well as offer technological advantages. Additionally, we may experience design, manufacturing, marketing or other difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or new versions of our existing products. As a result of such difficulties and delays, our development expenses may increase and, as a consequence, our results of operations could suffer.. Development and sales of our products are dependent on a number of factors beyond our control, and our inability to make and complete research and development investments, enhance the product development process and be innovative to solve customer needs with respect to the respective products may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant aspect of our growth strategy is the continued market development of products including NanoKnife, AngioVac, Venacure EVLT and BioFlo products.. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to develop and manufacture additional next generation or updated products on commercially favorable terms, or at all. NanoKnife and AngioVac are developing technologies and the inability of either of them to achieve clinical acceptance, as well as our inability to generate meaningful clinical data to convince providers of the clinical and economic benefits of our BioFlo platform, could severely limit our ability to drive revenue growth.. We currently have FDA 510(k) clearance to market NanoKnife products for soft tissue ablation.  If we are not able to secure FDA approval to conduct investigational device exemption (IDE) trials or marketing approval for additional or more specific indications, through 510(k) clearance, pre-market approval or otherwise, our ability to market our NanoKnife products will be restricted which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Undetected defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products.. Our products have occasionally contained, and may in the future contain, undetected defects. When these problems occur, we must divert the attention of our engineering personnel to address them. There is no assurance that we will not incur warranty or repair costs, be subject to liability claims for damages related to product defects, or experience manufacturing, shipping or other delays or interruptions as a result of these defects in the future. Our insurance policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. In addition, the occurrence of defects may result in significant customer relations problems and injury to our reputation, and may impair market acceptance of our products.. We, our competitors or other third parties, may engage in clinical trials with respect to our products.  The results of these trials may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable by the market, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our products may be the subject of clinical trials conducted by us, our competitors or third parties for the purposes of obtaining regulatory clearances or to gather market data. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors or by third parties, or the FDA's or the market's perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate and our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects.. If we are unable to convince customers that our products can improve the cost structure of their business, our revenue growth and profitability may be materially adversely impacted.. Worldwide initiatives to contain healthcare costs have led government and the private sector to enact cost containment efforts as a means of managing the growth of health care utilization.  Common techniques include policies on price regulation, competitive pricing, bidding and tender mechanics, coverage and payment, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments, and managed-care arrangements.  These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical devices and therapies. Government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health care insurance, and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments, tying reimbursement to outcomes, shifting to population health management, and other mechanisms designed to constrain utilization and contain costs. Simultaneously, hospitals are redefining their role in health care delivery as many assume much more risk and control of the total cost of patient care.  To successfully make this transformation health systems are consolidating, purchasing or partnering with physicians, post-acute care providers, while also narrowing networks thus allowing greater control over outcomes.  Today, many systems are. 17. becoming 'mini' payer/provider organizations.   These newly redesigned health systems are creating mechanisms such as value analysis and centralized purchasing functions that set pricing and in some cases limit the number of vendors that can participate in the purchasing program. Hospitals are also aligning interests with physicians through employment and other arrangements, such as gainsharing, where a hospital agrees with physicians to share any realized cost savings resulting from the physicians' collective change in practice patterns such as standardization of devices where medically appropriate. This has created an increasing level of price sensitivity among customers for our products. Some third-party payers must also approve coverage and set reimbursement levels for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse health care providers who use the medical devices or therapies. Even though a new medical device may have been cleared for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the device until coverage and sufficient reimbursement levels have been obtained from governmental and private third-party payers. In addition, some private third-party payers require that certain procedures or that the use of certain products be authorized in advance as a condition of reimbursement. International examples of cost containment initiatives and health care reforms advancing clinical outcomes as the key to market access are emerging in France, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK.  This new criteria can severely restrict coverage, reduce reimbursement and delay access to key markets with requirements for incremental clinical benefit and coverage with evidence development.. Cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations could adversely affect our selling prices, financial position and results of operations.. Many of our existing and potential customers have become members of group purchasing organizations, or GPOs, and integrated delivery network, or IDNs, in an effort to reduce costs. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with healthcare product manufacturers and distributors and offer the negotiated prices to affiliated hospitals and other members. GPOs and IDNs typically award contracts on a category-by-category basis through a competitive bidding process. Bids are generally solicited from multiple manufacturers with the intention of driving down pricing. Due to the highly competitive nature of the GPO and IDN contracting processes, we may not be able to obtain market prices for our products or obtain or maintain contract positions with major GPOs and IDNs, which could adversely impact our profitability.  Also, sales through a GPO or IDN can be significant to our business and if we are unable to retain contracts with our customers, or acquire additional contracts, our financial results may be negatively impacted.. We are dependent on single and limited source suppliers which subjects our business and results of operations to risks of supplier business interruptions.. We currently purchase significant amounts of several key products and product components from single and limited source suppliers and anticipate that we will do so for future products as well. Any delays in delivery of or shortages in those or other products and components could interrupt and delay manufacturing of our products and result in the cancellation of orders for our products. Any or all of these suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these products and components at any time. Due to FDA and other business considerations, we may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all. Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in production delays and increased costs and may limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify alternative sources of supply, we would have to modify our products to use substitute components, which may cause delays in shipments, increased design and manufacturing costs and increased prices for our products.. In addition, we purchase certain products as a distributor for the manufacturer of those products, including Asclera.  Operational, quality or regulatory issues of the manufacturers of the products we distribute could constrain or interrupt the availability of those products or services.  Any constraint or interruption in the supply of finished products that we distribute could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell products, our financial condition and our results of operations.. We are heavily dependent on third-party distributors to generate a substantial portion of international revenues and are at the risk of these distributors also selling for our competitors along with being financially viable to be able to effectively distribute our products and make timely payment.. Outside of North America we rely heavily on third party distributors, either on a country-by-country basis or on a multi-country, regional basis, to market, sell and distribute our products.  International distributors accounted for approximately 81% of international revenues for the year ended May 31, 2018.  In certain circumstances, distributors may also sell competing products to our own or products for competing diagnostic modalities and may have incentives to shift sales towards those competing products. As a result, we cannot assure you that our international distributors will increase or maintain our current levels of unit sales or increase or maintain our current unit pricing, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  In addition, there is a risk that our distributors will not be financially viable due to current economic and/or regulatory events in their respective countries.. 18. Failure to secure adequate reimbursement for our products could materially impair our ability to grow revenue and drive profitability.. Our products are used in medical procedures generally covered by government or private health plans.. In general, a third-party payor only covers a medical product or procedure when the plan administrator is satisfied that the product or procedure improves health outcomes, including quality of life or functional ability, in a safe and cost-effective manner. Even if a device has received clearance or approval for marketing by the FDA, there is no assurance that third-party payors will cover the cost of the device and related procedures.. In many instances, third-party payors use price schedules that do not vary to reflect the cost of the products and equipment used in performing those procedures. In other instances, payment or reimbursement is separately available for the products and equipment used, in addition to payment or reimbursement for the procedure itself. Even if coverage is available, third-party payors may place restrictions on the circumstances where they provide coverage or may offer reimbursement that is not sufficient to cover the cost of our products.. Third-party payors who cover the cost of medical products or equipment, in addition to allowing a general charge for the procedure, often maintain lists of exclusive suppliers or approved lists of products deemed to be cost-effective. Authorization from those third-party payors is required prior to using products that are not on these lists as a condition of reimbursement. If our products are not on the approved lists, healthcare providers must determine if the additional cost and effort required in obtaining prior authorization, and the uncertainty of actually obtaining coverage, is justified by any perceived clinical benefits from using our products.. Finally, the advent of contracted fixed rates per procedure has made it difficult to receive reimbursement for disposable products, even if the use of these products improves clinical outcomes. In addition, many third-party payors are moving to managed care systems in which providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. Managed care providers often attempt to control the cost of healthcare by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures. Under current prospective payment systems, such as the diagnosis related group system and the hospital out-patient prospective payment system, both of which are used by Medicare and in many managed care systems used by private third-party payors, the cost of our products will be incorporated into the overall cost of a procedure and not be separately reimbursed. As a result, we cannot be certain that hospital administrators and physicians will purchase our products, despite the clinical benefits and opportunity for cost savings that we believe can be derived from their use. If hospitals and physicians cannot obtain adequate reimbursement for our products or the procedures in which they are used, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could suffer a material adverse impact.. Our success in international markets will depend largely upon the availability of reimbursement from the third-party payors through which healthcare providers are paid in those markets. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems vary significantly by country. The main types of healthcare payment systems are government sponsored healthcare and private insurance. Reimbursement approval must be obtained individually in each country in which our products are marketed. Outside the United States, we generally rely on our distributors to obtain reimbursement approval in the countries in which they will sell our products. There can be no assurance that reimbursement approvals will be received.  The failure to secure reimbursement approvals in international markets could materially impact our financial position and results of operations.. If a product liability claim is brought against us or our product liability insurance coverage is inadequate, our business could be harmed.. The design, manufacture and marketing of the types of medical devices we sell entail an inherent risk of product liability. Our products are used by physicians to treat seriously ill patients. We are periodically subject to product liability claims, and patients or customers may in the future bring claims against us in a number of circumstances and for a number of reasons, including if our products were misused, if a component of our product fails, if our manufacture or design was flawed, if the product produced unsatisfactory results or if the instructions for use and operating manuals and disclosure of product related risks for our products were found to be inadequate. In addition, individuals or groups seeking to represent a class may file suit against us. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, including not only actual damages, but also punitive damages. The magnitude of the potential losses relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time.. We carry a product liability policy with a limit of $10,000,000 per product liability claim and an aggregate policy limit of $10,000,000, subject to a self-insured retention of $500,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate. We believe, based on claims made against us in the past, our existing product liability insurance coverage is reasonably adequate to protect us. 19. from any liabilities we might incur. However, there is no assurance that this coverage will be sufficient to satisfy any claim made against us. In addition, we may not be able to continue to maintain adequate coverage at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing any coverage in the future. Additionally, if one or more product liability claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or is in excess of our insurance coverage, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Further, such claims may require us to recall some of our products, which could result in significant costs to us and could divert management's attention from our business.. We may be exposed to risks associated with acquisitions, including integration risks and risks associated with methods of financing. Accordingly, completed acquisitions may not enhance our financial position or results of operations or create value for our shareholders as they are based on projections and assumptions which are uncertain and subject to change.. Part of our growth strategy is to acquire businesses and technologies that are complementary to ours. There is no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms, or at all, or that we will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals. Any acquisitions that we do undertake would be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions, including the:. • potential disruption of our business while we evaluate opportunities, complete acquisitions and develop and implement new business strategies to take advantage of these opportunities;. • inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by incorporating an acquired technology or business into our existing offerings;. • our inability to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated in the acquisition, which would prevent us from achieving the positive earnings gains expected as a result of the acquisition;. • diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns to integration matters;. • difficulty of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;. • challenges in demonstrating to our customers that the acquisition will not result in adverse changes in customer service standards or business focus;. • possible cash flow interruption or loss of revenue as a result of change of ownership transition matters;. • difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses;. • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses, and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management; and. • uncertainty as to the long-term success of any acquisitions we may make including the impact on contingent liabilities.. There is no assurance that any completed acquisition will be accretive to our margins or profits in the short term or in the long term. If we proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration consists of cash, a substantial portion of our available cash could be used to consummate the acquisitions. If we consummate one or more acquisitions in which the consideration consists of capital stock, our stockholders could suffer significant dilution of their interest in us. In addition, we could incur or assume significant amounts of indebtedness in connection with acquisitions. Further, acquisitions could also result in significant goodwill and/or amortization charges for acquired businesses or technologies.. Failure to attract additional capital which we may require to expand our business could curtail our growth.. We may require additional capital to expand our business. If cash generated internally is insufficient to fund capital requirements, we will require additional debt or equity financing. In addition, we may require financing to fund any significant acquisitions we may seek to make. Needed financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms satisfactory to us and may result in significant stockholder dilution. Covenants in our existing financing agreements may also restrict our ability to obtain additional debt financing. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we could be forced to curtail our growth strategy by reducing or delaying capital expenditures and acquisitions, selling assets, restructuring our operations or refinancing our indebtedness.. International and national economic and industry conditions constantly change, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business, financial condition and results of operation are affected by many changing economic, industry and other conditions beyond our control.  Actual or potential changes in international, national, regional and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation and trade protection measures, may negatively affect consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns or demographic trends, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Our customers may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their. 20. operations, which may adversely impact their ability or decision to purchase or pay for our products.  Disruptions in the credit markets have previously resulted, and could again result, in volatility, decreased liquidity, widening of credit spreads, and reduced availability of financing.  There can be no assurance that future financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all.  An inability to obtain necessary additional financing on acceptable terms may have an adverse impact on us and on our ability to execute on our business plan.. We are subject to a variety of market and financial risks due to our international operations that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability and operating results.. Although our stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are a global Company. Operations in countries outside of the U.S., which account for approximately 21% percent of our net sales for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018, are accompanied by certain financial and other risks that would not be faced by a Company operating purely within the U.S. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales outside the U.S., especially in emerging markets, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales and operations. Our profitability and international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including:. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • healthcare reform legislation;. • multiple non-U.S. regulatory requirement that are subject to change and could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products;. • local product preferences and product requirements;. • longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S.;. • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;. • less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the U.S. than exists in the U.S.;. • different labor regulations and workforce instability;. • political instability;. • the potential payment of U.S. income taxes on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries subject to U.S. taxation upon repatriation;. • the expiration and non-renewal of foreign tax rulings;. • potential negative consequences from changes in or interpretation of tax laws; and. • economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations.. There are recent legislative proposals to tax profits of U.S. affiliates which are earned abroad. While it is impossible for us to predict whether these and other proposals will be implemented, or how they will ultimately impact us, they may materially impact our results of operations if, for example, our profits earned abroad are subject to U.S. income tax, or we are otherwise disallowed deductions as a result of these profits.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (U.K.) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U., commonly referred to as \"Brexit\".  As a result of the referendum, it is expected that the British government will begin negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s future relationship with the E.U.  Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the U.K. and E.U. countries and increased regulatory complexities. These changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results.. Finally, changes in currency exchange rates may reduce the reported value of our revenues outside the U.S, net of expenses, and cash flows. We cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes.. Continuing worldwide economic instability, including challenges faced by the Eurozone countries, could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. Since fiscal year 2008, the global economy has been impacted by the sequential effects of an ongoing global financial crisis. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the global economy. Our customers and vendors may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability to purchase our products or to pay for our products on a timely basis, if at all. As with our customers and vendors, these economic conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. In addition, trade receivables are in many countries (including, but not limited to, Greece, Ireland, Portugal, and Spain). Repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries.. 21. In light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers located outside the U.S. Failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, there are concerns for the overall stability and suitability of the Euro as a single currency, given the economic and political challenges facing individual Eurozone countries. Continuing deterioration in the creditworthiness of the Eurozone countries, the withdrawal of one or more member countries from the EU, or the failure of the Euro as a common European currency could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel.. Our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including managerial, sales and technical personnel. We compete for key personnel with other companies, healthcare institutions, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We do not have written employment agreements with our executive officers, other than the CEO. Our ability to maintain and expand our business may be impaired if we are unable to retain our current key personnel or hire or retain other qualified personnel in the future.  In addition, our sales force is highly talented and there is high competition in the sales industry which could have an adverse effect on our business if there is significant turnover.. RISKS RELATED TO OPERATIONS. If we are unable to manage our growth profitably, our business, financial results and stock price could suffer.. Our future financial results will depend in part on our ability to profitably manage our growth. Management will need to maintain existing customers and attract new customers, recruit, retain and effectively manage employees, as well as expand operations and integrate customer support and financial control systems. If integration-related expenses and capital expenditure requirements are greater than anticipated or if we are unable to manage our growth profitably, our financial results and the market price of our common stock may decline.. In recent years we have begun to implement our operational excellence initiatives which include a number of restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives.  While we have realized some efficiencies from these actions, we may not realize the benefits of these initiatives to the extent we anticipated. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing difficulties in implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. In addition, if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in significant additional charges. Moreover, if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected.. We have incurred significant indebtedness which imposes operating and financial restrictions on us which, together with our debt service obligations, could significantly limit our ability to execute our business strategy and increase the risk of default under our debt obligations.. We have debt outstandingba of approximately $92.5 million as of May 31, 2018.  The interest rate on these borrowings is a floating rate which could expose us to the risk of increased interest expense in the future.  The terms of our credit facilities require us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants. In addition, the terms of our indebtedness also include certain covenants restricting or limiting our ability to take certain actions.. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities or take certain corporate actions. The covenants may also restrict our flexibility in planning for changes in our business and the industry and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments.. Our ability to meet our cash requirements, including our debt service obligations, will be dependent upon our operating performance, which will be subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are or may be beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business operations will generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund these cash requirements and debt service obligations. If our operating results, cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our debt, we could be forced to reduce or delay planned expansions and capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure or refinance our debt or seek additional equity capital, and we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Further, any of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations or may have an adverse impact on our business. Our debt agreements limit our ability to take certain of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient. 22. operating cash flow to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on us.. In addition, the degree to which we are leveraged as a result of the indebtedness incurred in connection with an acquisition or otherwise could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, could make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in the markets in which we compete, could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt.. Despite our indebtedness, we may incur more debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above.. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future subject to the limitations contained in the agreements governing our debt. Although these agreements restrict us from incurring additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. For example, we are generally permitted to incur certain indebtedness, including indebtedness arising in the ordinary course of business and indebtedness relating to acquisition activities.  See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources\".. Our international sales and operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that vary by country and could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations.. Sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 21% of our net sales during our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018.  We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales, and we intend to continue our expansion into emerging and/or faster-growing markets outside the United States.  Our sales and profitability from our international operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that can vary by country, and include those related to political and economic conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in tax laws, regulatory and reimbursement programs and policies, and the protection of intellectual property rights.  These risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations.. Foreign currency exchange rate may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  Products manufactured in, and sold into, foreign markets represent a significant portion of our operations.  When the United States dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which we sell our products, such as the euro, our United States dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate.  As a result of the June 23, 2016 referendum by British voters to exit the European Union, global markets and foreign currencies have been adversely impacted and the value of the Pound Sterling has sharply declined as compared to the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. This volatility in foreign currencies is expected to continue as the U.K. negotiates and executes its exit from the European Union but it is uncertain over what time period this will occur.  The effects of currency rate fluctuations and changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our goodwill, intangible assets and fixed assets are subject to potential impairment.. A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill, intangible assets and fixed assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired.. Most of our intangible and fixed assets have finite useful lives and are amortized or depreciated over their useful lives on either a straight-line basis or over the expected period of benefit or as revenues are earned from the sales of the related products. The underlying assumptions regarding the estimated useful lives of these intangible assets are reviewed quarterly and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable and are adjusted through accelerated amortization if necessary.  Whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable we test intangible assets for impairment based on estimates of future cash flows. If an intangible asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of the impairment will equal the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset.. We review our single reporting unit for potential goodwill impairment in the third fiscal quarter of each year as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic. 23. conditions, as well as future expectations. The annual goodwill impairment review performed in December 2017 indicated no goodwill impairments.. If actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and intangible asset calculations, we could incur future impairment or amortization charges, which could negatively impact our results of operations.. We may be limited in our ability to utilize, or may not be able to utilize, net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our future tax liability.. IRC Section 382 and related provisions contain rules that limit for U.S. federal income tax purposes the ability of a Company that undergoes an \"ownership change\" to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes existing as of the date of such ownership change.  Our Federal net operating loss carryforwards as of May 31, 2018 after considering IRC Section 382 limitations are $157.8 million. The expiration of the Federal net operating loss carryforwards is as follows: $28.8 million between 2018 and 2023 and $129.0 million between 2027 and 2037.  Our state net operating loss carryforwards as of May 31, 2018 after considering remaining IRC Section 382 limitations are $19.1 million which expire in various years from 2018 to 2038.  Future ownership changes within the meaning of IRC Section 382 may also subject our tax loss carryforwards to annual limitations which would restrict our ability to use them to offset our taxable income in periods following the ownership changes.. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018 for a further discussion of our tax loss carryovers.. Fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect us.. As an international Company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions.  Our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate.  In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of these jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate may, however, differ from the estimated amount due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws.  Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. We rely on the proper function, availability and security of information technology systems to operate our business and a cyber-attack or other breach of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. Similar to other large multi-national companies, the size and complexity of our information technology systems makes them vulnerable to a cyber-attack, malicious intrusion, breakdown, destruction, loss of data privacy, or other significant disruption. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, and changing customer patterns. In addition, third parties may attempt to hack into our products to obtain data relating to patients with our products or our proprietary information. Any failure by us to maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity, including from cyber-attacks, intrusions or other breaches, could result in the unauthorized access to patient data and personally identifiable information, theft of intellectual property or other misappropriation of assets, or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. Any of these events, in turn, may cause us to lose existing customers, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, be subject to legal claims and liability, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach or theft of intellectual property, or suffer other adverse consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Any disaster at our manufacturing facilities could disrupt our ability to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time, which could cause our revenues to decrease.. We conduct our manufacturing and assembly at facilities in Queensbury, New York and Glens Falls, New York. It would be difficult, expensive and time-consuming to transfer resources from one facility to the other, replace, or repair these facilities and our manufacturing equipment if they were significantly affected by a disaster. Additionally, we might be forced to rely on. 24. third-party manufacturers or to delay production of our products. Insurance for damage to our properties and the disruption of our business from disasters may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, if one of our principal suppliers were to experience a similar disaster, uninsured loss or under-insured loss, we might not be able to obtain adequate alternative sources of supplies or products or could face significant delays and incur substantial expense in doing so. Any significant uninsured loss, prolonged or repeated disruption, or inability to operate experienced by us or any of our principal suppliers could cause significant harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Manufacturing and assembly takes place in Queensbury, New York and Glens Falls, New York.  If we were significantly affected by a disaster, we no longer have an option to transfer manufacturing to another facility so we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers or would have to delay production of our products.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may enable our management to resist a change in control. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a change in the ownership of our Company or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Such provisions include:. • our board of directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue \"blank check\" preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock;. • our board of directors is classified so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time, which may make it more difficult for a person who acquires control of a majority of our outstanding voting stock to replace our directors;. • advance notice requirements for stockholders to nominate individuals to serve on our board of directors or for stockholders to submit proposals that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings;. • stockholder action by written consent is prohibited; and. • stockholders are not permitted to cumulatively vote for the election of directors.. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock.. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our Company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. RISKS RELATED TO THE REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT. Reforms to the United States healthcare system may adversely affect our business.. In response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payers to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the health care system, including U.S. health care reform legislation. Certain of these proposals could, among other things, limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. The adoption of some or all of these proposals could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 25. Our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities, which has led to certain costs and business distractions as we respond to inquiries and comply with new regulations, and may lead to greater governmental regulation in the future.. Our medical devices and our business activities are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities and members of Congress have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. In addition, certain states, including Massachusetts, have recently passed or are considering legislation restricting our interactions with health care providers and requiring disclosure of many payments to them. The federal government has recently introduced similar legislation, which may or may not preempt state laws. Recent Supreme Court case law has clarified that the FDA's authority over medical devices preempts state tort laws, but legislation has been introduced at the federal level to allow state intervention, which could lead to increased and inconsistent regulation at the state level. We anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation by governmental authorities may increase compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our operations.. We are subject to a comprehensive system of federal, state and international laws and regulations, and we could be the subject of investigations, enforcement actions or face lawsuits and monetary or equitable judgments.. We operate in many parts of the world, and our operations are affected by complex state, federal and international laws relating to healthcare, environmental protection, antitrust, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, fraud and abuse, export control, tax, employment and laws regarding privacy, personally identifiable information and protected health information, including, for example, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (\"FDCA\"), various FDA and international regulations relating to, among other things, the development, quality assurance, manufacturing, importation, distribution, marketing and sale of, and billing for, our products, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and Federal False Claims Act (see Note 15), the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), the UK Bribery Act of 2010, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\"), General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") and other foreign data protection and privacy laws, and laws and regulations relating to sanctions and money laundering. We are subject to periodic inspections to determine compliance with the FDA's Quality System Regulation requirements, current medical device adverse event reporting regulations, and similar foreign rules and regulations. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from negligent, reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. The failure to comply with these laws and regulatory standards, allegations of such non-compliance or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer: (i) could result in FDA Form-483 notices and/or warning letters or the foreign equivalent, fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, investigations, detainment, seizures or recalls of products (with the attendant expenses), the banning of a particular device, an order to replace or refund the cost of any device previously manufactured or distributed, operating restrictions and/or civil or criminal prosecution, and/or penalties, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims; and (ii) could disrupt our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.. Most of our products must receive clearance or approval from the FDA or comparable regulatory agencies abroad before they can be marketed or sold. State, federal and foreign registration regulations are both evolving and subject to varied levels of interpretation and enforcement. It can be costly and time-consuming to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market a medical device. Approvals might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all, for new devices, new indications for use or certain modifications or enhancements to previously approved products. Even after a device receives regulatory approval it remains subject to significant regulatory and quality requirements, such as manufacturing, recordkeeping, renewal, recertification or reporting and other post market approval requirements, which may include clinical, laboratory or other studies. Product approvals by the FDA and other foreign regulators can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval or may be re-classified to a higher regulatory classification, such as requiring a Pre-Market Approval (\"PMA\") for a previously cleared 510(k) device. Regulations are also subject to change as a result of legislative, administrative or judicial action, which may further increase our costs or reduce sales. Our failure to maintain approvals, obtain approval for new products or comply with other applicable regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.. The healthcare industry is under continued scrutiny from state, federal and international governments with respect to industry practices in the area of sales and marketing, including provisions of the Physician Payment Sunshine Act. If our marketing, sales or other activities fail to comply with the FDA's or other comparable foreign regulatory agencies' regulations or guidelines, or other applicable laws, we may be subject to warnings from the FDA or investigations or enforcement actions from the FDA, Medicare, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services or other government agencies or enforcement bodies. Additionally, in the European Union, a new draft Medical Device Regulation was published in 2016 imposing stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants Notified Bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. The Company is monitoring the implementation of the regulation and has. 26. undertaken initial actions to move toward compliance based on the published draft of the regulation. The Company's failure to comply with any marketing or sales regulations or any other applicable regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.. In the recent past, medical device manufacturers have been the subject of investigations from government agencies related to their relationships with doctors, product sales and marketing and off-label promotion of products, among other activities or practices. If an enforcement action involving the Company were to occur, it could result in penalties, fines, detainment, seizures, recalls, product bans, operating restrictions (which may include loss of a license or authorization), the exclusion of our products from reimbursement under government-funded programs and/or prohibitions on our ability to sell our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. In addition, remediation of any issues identified by the FDA or other regulators could require facility upgrades, process changes, additional labeling requirements or other measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations.. In addition, lawsuits by or otherwise involving employees, customers, licensors, licensees, suppliers, vendors, business partners, distributors, shareholders or competitors with respect to how we conduct our business could be very costly and could substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time-to-time with companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to resolve these disputes on terms favorable to us.  The occurrence of an adverse monetary or equitable judgment or a large expenditure in connection with a settlement of any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations that could result in significant liability, require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future.. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and health programs outside the United States. These laws and regulations are wide ranging and subject to changing interpretation and application, which could restrict our sales or marketing practices. Furthermore, since many of our customers rely on reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental programs to cover a substantial portion of their expenditures, our exclusion from such programs as a result of a violation of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. If we or some of our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and other applicable postmarket requirements, our manufacturing operations could be disrupted, our product sales and profitability could suffer, and we may be subject to a wide variety of FDA enforcement actions.. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with all regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in the FDA or a court instituting a wide variety of enforcement actions against us, including a public \"Warning Letter\"; an order to shut down some or all manufacturing operations; a recall of products; fines or civil penalties; seizure or detention of our products; refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or a PMA of new or modified products; withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals already granted to us; and criminal prosecution.. Our manufacturing processes and those of some of our suppliers must comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which governs the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, manufacture, control, quality assurance, installation, servicing, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of medical devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through unannounced inspections. If we, or one of our suppliers, fail a QSR inspection, or if a corrective action plan adopted by us or one of our suppliers is not sufficient, the FDA may bring an enforcement action, and our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. We are also subject to the FDA's general prohibition against promoting our products for unapproved or \"off-label\" uses, the FDA's adverse event reporting requirements and the FDA's reporting requirements for field correction or product removals. The FDA has recently placed increased emphasis on its scrutiny of compliance with the QSR and these other postmarket requirements.. If we, or one of our suppliers, violate the FDA's requirements or fail to take adequate corrective action in response to any significant compliance issue raised by the FDA, the FDA can take various enforcement actions which could cause our product sales and profitability to suffer.. 27. In addition, most other countries require us and our suppliers to comply with manufacturing and quality assurance standards for medical devices that are similar to those in force in the United States before marketing and selling our products in those countries. If we, or our suppliers, should fail to do so, we would lose our ability to market and sell our products in those countries.. If we cannot obtain and maintain marketing clearance or approval from governmental agencies, we will not be able to sell our products.. Our products are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in the foreign countries in which they are sold. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device that we wish to market in the United States must receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA before the product can be sold. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA's 510(k) clearance procedure, also known as \"premarket notification,\" is the process we have used for our current products. This process usually takes from four to twelve months from the date the premarket notification is submitted to the FDA, but may take significantly longer. Although we have obtained 510(k) clearances for our current products, our clearances may be revoked by the FDA if safety or effectiveness problems develop with the devices. The PMA process is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain. It generally takes from one to three years from the date the application is submitted to, and filed with the FDA, and may take even longer. Regulatory regimes in other countries similarly require approval or clearance prior to our marketing or selling products in those countries. We rely on our distributors to obtain regulatory clearances or approvals of our products outside of the United States. If we are unable to obtain additional clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products in the United States or elsewhere or obtain these clearances or approvals in a timely fashion or at all, or if our existing clearances are revoked, our revenues and profitability may decline.. Modifications to our current products may require new marketing clearances or approvals or require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until such clearances or approvals are obtained.. Any modification to an FDA-cleared medical device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change or modification in its intended use, requires a new FDA 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a premarket approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make its own determination as to whether a modification requires a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, but the FDA may review and disagree with any decision reached by the manufacturer. We have modified aspects of some of our devices since receiving regulatory clearance. We believed that some of these modifications did not require new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval and, therefore, we did not seek new 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals. In the future, we may make additional modifications to our products after they have received FDA clearance or approval and, in appropriate circumstances, determine that new clearance or approval is unnecessary. Regulations in other countries in which we market or sell, or propose to market or sell, our products may also require that we make judgments about changes to our products and whether or not those changes are such that regulatory approval or clearance should be obtained. In the United States and elsewhere, regulatory authorities may disagree with our past or future decisions not to seek new clearance or approval and may require us to obtain clearance or approval for modifications to our products. If that were to occur for a previously cleared or approved product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain the necessary clearance or approval. Under these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, our products may be subject to product recalls, which may harm our reputation and divert managerial and financial resources.. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to order mandatory recall of our products or order their removal from the market if there are material deficiencies or defects in design, manufacture, installation, servicing or labeling of the device, or if the governmental entity finds that our products would cause serious adverse health consequences. A government mandated voluntary recall or field action by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including labeling defects. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers and divert managerial and financial resources.. We may be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions or costly investigations if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or \"off-label\" uses.. If we are incorrect in our belief that our promotional materials and training methods regarding physicians are conducted in compliance with regulations of the FDA and other applicable regulations, and the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, the FDA could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction,. 28. seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties.  It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement.  Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. In June 2014 we received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice (the \"DOJ\") requesting documents in relation to a criminal and civil investigation the DOJ is conducting regarding BTG International, Inc.'s LC Bead product beginning in 2003.  RITA Medical Systems and AngioDynamics, Inc., after our acquisition of RITA, was the exclusive distributor of LC Beads in the United States from 2006 through December 31, 2011.  We are cooperating fully with this investigation and at this time are unable to predict its scope, duration or outcome.  In April 2015 we received a subpoena from the DOJ requesting documents in relation to a criminal and civil investigation the DOJ is conducting regarding purported promotion of certain of our VenaCure EVLT products for un-cleared indications.  As of May 31, 2017 the Company accrued $12.5 million for these matters and in August 2017, the Company agreed in principle with the government to resolve these matters for approximately $12.5 million.  This balance was still accrued as of May 31, 2018 and was paid in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.. If our employees or agents violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, we may incur fines or penalties, or experience other adverse consequences.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery laws in international jurisdictions, including the UK Anti-Bribery Act, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our sales to customers and distributors outside of the United States have been increasing and we expect them to continue to increase in the future. If our employees or agents violate the provisions of the FCPA or other anti-bribery laws, we may incur fines or penalties, we may be unable to market our products in other countries or we may experience other adverse consequences which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition.. Laws and regulations governing the export of our products could adversely impact our business.. The U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), and the Bureau of Industry and Security at the U.S. Department of Commerce (BIS), administer certain laws and regulations that restrict U.S. persons and, in some instances, non-U.S. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business with or making investments in certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions. Due to our international operations, we are subject to such laws and regulations, which are complex, restrict our business dealings with certain countries and individuals, and are constantly changing. Further restrictions may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that materially impacts our operations.. From time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions, including Iran. Certain of our subsidiaries sell medical devices and surgical tools, and may provide related services, to distributors and other purchasing bodies in such countries. These business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations. Violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in reimbursement levels by governmental or other third-party payors for procedures using our products may cause our revenues to decline.. Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians which typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g. Medicare, Medicaid and comparable foreign programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of medical device companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies by country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in other countries may limit, reduce or eliminate reimbursement for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for. 29. our products. Even when we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third party payors.. Third-party payors have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, a number of healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These policies include:. • controls on government-funded reimbursement for healthcare services and price controls on medical products and services providers;. • challenges to the pricing of medical procedures or limits or prohibitions on reimbursement for specific devices and therapies through other means; and. • the introduction of managed care systems in which healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person.. We are unable to predict whether federal, state or local healthcare reform legislation or regulation affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Changes in healthcare systems in the United States or elsewhere in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or denies coverage for these procedures, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices which our customers are willing to pay for them.. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to generate revenues from new or existing products and our business may suffer.. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. We take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property. We rely upon patent, trade secret, copyright, know-how and trademark laws, as well as license agreements and contractual provisions, to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. However, no assurances can be made that any pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, that any current or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, or that our patents will not be found invalid.. Patent positions of medical device companies, including our Company, are uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. The coverage sought in a patent application can be denied or significantly reduced either before or after the patent is issued. Consequently, there can be no assurance that any of our pending patent applications will result in an issued patent. There is also no assurance that any existing or future patent will provide significant protection or commercial advantage, or whether any existing or future patent will be circumvented by a more basic patent, thus requiring us to obtain a license to produce and sell the product. Generally, patent applications can be maintained in secrecy for at least 18 months after their earliest priority date. In addition, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent the subject matter covered by each of our pending U.S. patent applications or that we were the first to file non-U.S. patent applications for such subject matter.. Additionally, we rely on trade secret protection for certain unpatented aspects of our proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques, that others will not gain access to our proprietary technology or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. We have a policy of requiring key employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. Our confidentiality agreements also require our employees to assign to us all rights to any inventions made or conceived during their employment with us. We also generally require our consultants to assign to us any inventions made during the course of their engagement by us. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for us in the event of unauthorized use, transfer or disclosure of confidential information or inventions.. If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property, our market share, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. 30. If third parties claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to expend significant financial resources and management time defending against such actions and our financial condition and our results of operations could suffer.. Third parties may claim that our products infringe their patents and other intellectual property rights. Identifying third-party patent rights can be particularly difficult because, in general, patent applications can be maintained in secrecy for at least 18 months after their earliest priority date. Some companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property infringement litigation to gain a competitive advantage. If a competitor were to challenge our patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights, or assert that our products infringe its patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to make expensive changes to our product design, pay royalties or other fees to license rights in order to continue manufacturing and selling our products, or pay substantial damages. Third-party infringement claims, regardless of their outcome, would not only consume our financial resources but also divert our management's time and effort. Such claims could also cause our customers or potential customers to purchase competitors' products or defer or limit their purchase or use of our affected products until resolution of the claim. See Note 15 in the consolidated financial statements.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK PRICE. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock.. The ongoing introduction of new products and services that affect our overall product mix make the prediction of future operating results difficult. You should not rely on our past results as any indication of future operating results. The price of our common stock will likely fall in the event that our operating results do not meet the expectations of analysts and investors. Comparisons of our quarterly operating results are an unreliable indication of our future performance because they are likely to vary significantly based on many factors, including:. • the level of sales of our products and services in our markets;. • our ability to introduce new products or services and enhancements in a timely manner;. • the demand for and acceptance of our products and services;. • the success of our competition and the introduction of alternative products or services;. • our ability to command favorable pricing for our products and services;. • the growth of the market for our devices and services;. • the expansion and rate of success of our direct sales force in the United States and internationally and our independent distributors internationally;. • actions relating to ongoing FDA compliance;. • the effect of intellectual property disputes;. • the size and timing of orders from independent distributors or customers;. • the attraction and retention of key personnel, particularly in sales and marketing, regulatory, manufacturing and research and development;. • unanticipated delays or an inability to control costs;. • general economic conditions as well as those specific to our customers and markets; and. • seasonal fluctuations in revenue due to the elective nature of some procedures.. Our stock price may be volatile, which may cause the value of our stock to decline or subject us to a securities class action litigation.. The trading price of our common stock price may be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • general economic, industry and market conditions;. • actions by institutional or other large stockholders;. • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock;. • volume and timing of orders for our products;. • developments generally affecting medical device companies;. • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;. • investor perceptions of us and our business, including changes in market valuations of medical device companies; and. • our results of operations and financial performance.. 31. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Stock Market and the market for medical devices in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume volatility that is often seemingly unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company after a period of volatility in the market price of its common stock. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expense and the diversion of management's attention from our business."
