[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. The following factors could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Although we have tried to discuss key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance.. A change in sales strategy or financial viability of our suppliers could adversely affect our sales or earnings.. Most of our agreements with suppliers are terminable by either party on short notice for any reason. We currently source products from thousands of suppliers. However, approximately one-third of our annual dollar volume purchases are sourced from our five largest suppliers. If any of these suppliers changes its sales strategy to reduce its reliance on distribution channels, or decides to terminate its business relationship with us, our sales and earnings could be adversely affected until we are able to establish relationships with suppliers of comparable products. Although we believe our relationships with these key suppliers are good, they could change their strategies as a result of a change in control, expansion of their direct sales force, changes in the marketplace or other factors beyond our control, including a key supplier becoming financially distressed.. We have risks associated with the sale of nonconforming products and services.. Historically, we have experienced a small number of cases in which our vendors supplied us with products that did not conform to the agreed upon specifications without our knowledge. Additionally, we may inadvertently sell a product not suitable for a customer's application. We address this risk through our quality control processes, by seeking to limit liability and our warranty in our customer contracts, by obtaining indemnification rights from vendors and by maintaining insurance responsive to these risks. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to include protective provisions in all of our contracts, that vendors will have the financial capability to fulfill their indemnification obligations to us, or that insurance can be obtained with sufficiently broad coverage or in amounts sufficient to fully protect us.. Our foreign operations are subject to political, economic and currency risks.. We derive over 25% of our revenues from sales outside of the U.S.. Economic and political conditions in some of these foreign markets may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition in these foreign markets. Our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (as further discussed in \"Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\") and different legal, tax, accounting and regulatory requirements. In addition, some of the products that we distribute are produced in foreign countries, which involve longer and more complex supply chains that are vulnerable to numerous risks that could cause significant interruptions or delays in delivery of such products.  Many of these factors are beyond our control and include risks, such as as political instability, financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' noncompliance with applicable laws, trade restrictions, labor disputes, currency fluctuations, changes in tariff or import policies, severe weather, terrorist attacks and transport capacity and cost. A significant interruption in our supply chains caused by any of the above factors could result in increased costs or delivery delays and result in a decrease in our net sales and profitability.. We have risks associated with inventory.. We must identify the right product mix and maintain sufficient inventory on hand to meet customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect our sales and earnings. However, if circumstances change (for example, an unexpected shift in market demand, pricing or customer defaults) there could be a material impact on the net realizable value of our inventory. To guard against inventory obsolescence, we have negotiated various return rights and price protection agreements with certain key suppliers. We also maintain an inventory valuation reserve account against declines in the value or salability of our inventory. However, there is no guaranty that these arrangements will be sufficient to avoid write-offs in excess of our reserves in all circumstances.. Our operating results are affected by copper prices.. Our operating results have been affected by changes in prices of copper, which is a major component in a portion of the electrical wire and cable products we sell. As our purchase costs with suppliers change to reflect the changing copper prices, our percent mark-up to customers remains relatively constant, resulting in higher or lower sales revenue and gross profit depending upon whether copper prices are increasing or decreasing.. The degree to which price changes in the copper commodity spot market correlate to product price changes, is a factor of market demand for products. When demand is strong, there is a high degree of correlation, but when demand is weak, there can be significant time lags between spot price changes and market price changes.. 5. We have risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses.. In connection with recent and future acquisitions, it is necessary for us to continue to create an integrated business from the various acquired entities. This requires the establishment of a common management team to guide the acquired businesses, the conversion of numerous information systems to a common operating system, the establishment of a brand identity for the acquired businesses, the streamlining of the operating structure to optimize efficiency and customer service and a reassessment of the inventory and supplier base to ensure the availability of products at competitive prices. No assurance can be given that these various actions can be completed without disruption to the business, in a short period of time or that anticipated improvements in operating performance can be achieved. Any inability on our part to successfully implement strategic transactions could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. There can be no assurance that any businesses acquired will meet performance expectations or that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove to be correct. In addition, any acquisition that we make may not deliver the synergies and other benefits that were anticipated when entering into such acquisition.. Our debt agreements could impose restrictions on our business.. Our debt agreements contain certain financial and operating covenants that limit our discretion with respect to certain business matters. These covenants restrict our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • create liens on assets;. • make certain investments;. • transfer, lease or dispose of assets; and. • engage in certain mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other fundamental changes.. These covenants also limit the amount of dividends or share repurchases we may make. As a result of these restrictions, we are limited in how we may conduct business and may be unable to compete effectively or take advantage of new business opportunities. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our debt agreements may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions or regulatory changes beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under either the Inventory Facility, the Receivables Facility or the indentures governing our outstanding notes that would permit the applicable lenders or noteholders, as the case may be, to declare all outstanding amounts to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest.  If we are unable to repay indebtedness, lenders having secured obligations, such as the lenders under the Inventory Facility or the Receivables Facility, could proceed against the collateral securing these obligations. This could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and operating results.. We have substantial debt which could adversely affect our profitability, limit our ability to obtain financing in the future and pursue certain business opportunities.. As of December 29, 2017, we had an aggregate principal amount of $1.25 billion of outstanding debt. As a result, a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes. This may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, and general corporate purposes in the future.  Our indebtedness also reduces our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions or may prevent us from making capital investments that are necessary or important to our operations and strategic growth.. If our cash flow and capital resources are not sufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be required to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or refinance our debt. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our debt agreements and the indentures governing our outstanding notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and how we use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to consummate those dispositions, or if we do, what the timing of the dispositions will be or whether the proceeds that we realize will be adequate to meet our debt service obligations when due.. We have risks associated with accounts receivable.. A significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable. Although no single customer accounts for more than 2% of our sales, a payment default by one of our larger customers could have a short-term impact on earnings or liquidity.  A financial or industry downturn could have an adverse effect on the collectability of our accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults.. 6. A decline in project volume could adversely affect our sales and earnings.. While most of our sales and earnings are generated by comparatively smaller and more frequent orders, the fulfillment of large orders for capital projects generates significant sales and earnings. Slow macro-economic growth rates, difficult credit market conditions for our customers, weak demand for our customers' products or other customer spending constraints can result in project delays or cancellations, potentially having a material adverse effect on our financial results.. The level of returns on pension plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. Changes in government regulations could also affect our pension plan expenses and funding requirements.. The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. Funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. The equity markets can be very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. An adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity. At December 29, 2017, our projected benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of plan assets by $43.5 million.. Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension plans are determined by us in consultation with outside actuaries. In the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or mortality rates, our future pension benefit expenses could increase or decrease. Due to changing market conditions, the assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension liabilities and related costs and funding requirements.. We may experience a failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third-party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or information security breaches.. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third-party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or information security breaches could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. Although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. We may be adversely affected by the U.K. determination to leave the European Union (Brexit).. On June 23, 2016, voters in the United Kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the European Union (\"Brexit\").  Such withdrawal will occur after a process of negotiation regarding the future terms of the United Kingdom's relationship with the European Union with respect to reciprocal market access and other matters. These negotiations on withdrawal and post-exit arrangements have been and will likely continue to be complex and protracted.. We have significant operations in the United Kingdom and other member countries of the European Union. The proposed withdrawal by the United Kingdom could have an adverse effect on the tax, tax treaty, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our businesses in the region are subject. The withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the United Kingdom and the European Union and significantly disrupt trade between the United Kingdom and the European Union and other parties. The uncertainty concerning the timing and terms of the exit could also have a negative impact on the business activity, political stability and economic conditions in the United Kingdom, the European Union and the other economies in which we operate, which could result in customers reducing or delaying spending decisions on our products. Our U.K. business has deferred tax assets totaling $6.3 million. A downturn in our U.K. business caused by a material adverse effect could require us to record a valuation allowance against those deferred tax assets. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. 7. We may be adversely affected by unanticipated changes in our tax provisions.. We are a U.S.-owned multinational company subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and jurisdictions abroad. Tax laws are subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of laws are issued or applied. Such changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws, regulations, other administrative guidance and common law interpretation could affect our tax expense and profitability as evidenced by the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on December 22, 2017. Further, the final determination of tax audits or litigation could ultimately be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Changes in our tax provision and tax liabilities, whether due to changes in law, the interpretation, or a final determination of audits or litigation, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows."
