[1] "Item 1A.     RISK FACTORS. Our business routinely encounters and attempts to address risks, some of which will cause our future results to differ, sometimes materially, from those originally anticipated. Below, we have described our present view of the most significant risks facing the Company. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks that we may face or that could adversely affect us. If any of the circumstances described in the risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline significantly and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment.. The following discussion of risk factors contains \"forward-looking statements,\" which may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K or in our other filings and public disclosures. In particular, the following information should be read in conjunction with Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8  -  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.. Risks Related to Our Business. Adverse developments in the residential mortgage market, the real estate market, and the broader financial and capital markets, as well as in the U.S. economy and the broader global economy, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, including MBS, as well as the broader financial markets and the economy generally. Significant adverse changes in financial market conditions leading to the forced sale of large quantities of mortgage-related and other financial assets would result in significant volatility in the market for mortgages and mortgage-related assets and potentially significant losses for us and certain other market participants. In addition, concerns over actual or anticipated low economic growth rates, higher levels of unemployment, or uncertainty regarding future U.S. monetary policy (particularly in light of the new presidential administration and related uncertainties) may contribute to increased interest rate volatility. In response to difficult economic conditions, there has been an increased focus by U.S. regulators, international regulators, and banking groups (such as from the Dodd-Frank legislation and Basel III accord) on increasing capital requirements for financial institutions and on greater restrictions on lending. This may have an adverse impact on the supply or value of MBS and could also make it more difficult for us as well as others in the marketplace to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all.. Congress and President Trump's administration may make substantial changes to fiscal, tax, and other federal policies that may adversely affect our business.. Changes by the U.S. government on U.S. fiscal and tax policies, trade, healthcare, immigration, foreign policies, and governmental regulations may impact the residential mortgage and real estate markets, the U.S. economy, and the broader global economy. Although we cannot predict the impact, if any, of any changes in federal policies may have on our business, they could adversely affect our business. Until we know what policy changes are made and how these changes impact our business and the business of others that compete in our markets, over the long-term, we cannot predict whether we will benefit from such changes or be negatively affected by them.. 33. Table of Contents. Failure to procure funding on favorable terms, or at all, would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of shares of our common stock, Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock or Series C Preferred Stock.. Adverse developments in the mortgage market could cause one or more of our lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing. This could potentially increase our financing costs and reduce liquidity. Furthermore, if many of our lenders are unwilling or unable to provide us with additional financing, we could be forced to sell our assets at an inopportune time when prices are depressed. If one or more major market participants fail, it could negatively impact the marketability of all fixed income securities, including MBS, and this could negatively impact the value of the securities in our portfolio, thus reducing our net book value.. If we are unable to negotiate favorable terms and conditions on future borrowing arrangements with one or more of our lenders, our financial condition and earnings could be negatively impacted.. The terms and conditions of each borrowing arrangement with our lenders are negotiated on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Our access to financing depends upon many factors over which we have little or no control including, but not limited to: general market conditions; each lender's view of the quality and value of our assets and our liquidity; regulatory requirements; our current and future earnings potential; and the market price of our stock. Key terms and conditions of each transaction include interest rates, maturity dates, asset pricing procedures and margin requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to negotiate favorable terms and conditions on our future borrowing arrangements.. Also, during periods of market illiquidity or due to perceived credit quality deterioration of the collateral pledged, a lender may require that less favorable asset pricing procedures be employed or the margin requirements be increased. Possible market developments, including a sharp rise in interest rates, a change in prepayment rates, or increasing market concern about the value or liquidity of MBS, may reduce the market value of our portfolio, which may cause our lenders to require additional collateral. Under these conditions, we may determine it is prudent to sell assets to improve our ability to pledge sufficient collateral to support our remaining borrowings. Such sales may be at disadvantageous times, which may harm our operating results and net profitability.. Adverse developments in the residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of the MBS in which we invest.. During the past several years, the residential mortgage market in the U.S. has experienced a variety of difficulties and changing economic conditions including defaults, credit losses and liquidity concerns. News of actual and potential security liquidations has increased the volatility of many financial assets including MBS. Further increased volatility and deterioration in the broader residential mortgage and MBS markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of the MBS in which we invest.. Our investments serve as collateral for our financings. Any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would likely make it difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or maintain our compliance with terms of any financing arrangements already in place. If market conditions result in a decline in the value of our MBS, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected.. New laws may be passed affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, on the one hand, and the federal government, on the other, which could adversely affect the price of Agency MBS.. The interest and principal payments we expect to receive on the Agency MBS in which we invest will be guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Principal and interest on securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are not guaranteed by the U.S. government. All the Agency MBS in which we invest depend on a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities.. Since September 2008, there have been increased market concerns about Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's ability to withstand future credit losses associated with securities held in their investment portfolios, and on which they provide. 34. Table of Contents. guarantees, without the direct support of the federal government. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed into the conservatorship of the FHFA, their federal regulator, pursuant to its powers under The Federal Housing Finance Regulatory Reform Act of 2008, a part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008.. In addition to the FHFA becoming the conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the U.S. Department of the Treasury has taken various actions intended to provide Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with additional liquidity and ensure their financial stability. The U.S. Treasury can hold its portfolio of Agency MBS to maturity and, based on mortgage market conditions, may make adjustments to the portfolio. This flexibility may adversely affect the pricing and availability for our target investments. It is also possible that if and when the U.S. Treasury commits to purchase Agency MBS in the future, it could create additional demand that would increase the pricing of Agency MBS that we seek to acquire.. Shortly after Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed in federal conservatorship, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury suggested that the guarantee payment structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should be re-examined. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be eliminated or considerably limited relative to historical measurements. The U.S. Treasury could also stop providing credit support to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the future. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes an Agency MBS and could have broad adverse market implications. In addition, if Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac was eliminated, or their structures were to change radically, we would not be able to acquire Agency MBS from these companies, which would eliminate a major component of our business model.. Our income could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold. For example, the current credit support provided by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rate we expect to receive from Agency MBS that we seek to acquire, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. A reduction in the supply of Agency MBS could also negatively affect the pricing of Agency MBS we seek to acquire by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio.. Any law affecting these government-sponsored enterprises may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac Agency MBS. It also is possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.. Separate legislation has been introduced in both houses of the U.S. Congress, which would, among other things, wind down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and we could be materially adversely affected if these proposed laws were enacted.. Payments on the Agency MBS in which we invest are guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Since 2008, these agencies have been under the conservatorship of the U.S. government. Over the past several years, separate legislation has been introduced in both houses of the U.S. Congress to wind-down both of these agencies. None of these bills have garnered enough support for a vote. It is currently unknown if, and when, any of these bills would become law and, if they did, what impact that would have on housing finance in general and what the impact would be on the existing securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as the impact on the pricing, supply, liquidity and value of the MBS in which we invest.. Certain actions taken, or that may be taken in the future, by the U.S. government regarding monetary policy could negatively affect the availability of financing, the quantity and quality of available products, or cause changes in interest rates and the yield curve, any and each of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 35. Table of Contents. At its January 2018 meeting, the Fed Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve, or the FOMC, left the Fed Funds rate unchanged from its target range of 1.25% to 1.50%. They indicated that a gradual tightening of monetary policy would be coming sometime in 2018, as they still expected to see inflation hit the 2% target. We cannot predict whether or when such other actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These actions could negatively affect the availability of financing and the quantity and quality of available products and/or cause changes in interest rates and the yield curve, any and each of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as those of the entire mortgage sector in general.. A failure by the U.S. government to meet the conditions of the Budget Control Act of 2011, or to reduce its budget deficit, or a further downgrade of U.S. sovereign debt and government-sponsored agency debt, could have a material adverse impact on our borrowings and the valuations of our securities and may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. There continues to be concerns over the ability of the U.S. government to reduce its budget deficit and resolve its debt crisis. The U.S. sovereign debt and government-sponsored agency debt credit ratings continue to be monitored to account for the risk that U.S. lawmakers fail to meet the conditions of the Budget Control Act of 2011 and/or reduce its overall debt. Such failures could have a material adverse effect both on the U.S. economy and on the global economy. In particular, this could cause disruption in the capital markets and impact the stability of future U.S. treasury auctions and the trading market for U.S. government securities, resulting in increased interest rates and impaired access to credit. These factors could negatively impact our borrowing costs, our liquidity and the valuation of the securities we currently own in our portfolio, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and our results of operations.. The failure or delay by the U.S. government to resolve future debt ceiling or government funding crises could materially adversely affect our stock price, our business, results of operations and financial condition.. During the past several years, Congress passed several interim measures to provide temporary funding to the U.S. government and temporarily increase the debt ceiling. On February 9, 2018, Congress passed and President Trump signed into law a bill that would keep the U.S. government funded through March 23, 2018, includes approximately $400 billion in spending over the next two years, and also suspends the debt limit by one year. A failure by the U.S. government to reach agreement on future budgets and debt ceilings, reduce its budget deficit or a future downgrade of U.S. sovereign debt and government-sponsored agencies debt could have a material adverse effect on the U.S. economy and the global economy. These events could have a material adverse effect on our borrowing costs, the availability of financing and the liquidity and valuation of securities in general and of the securities in our portfolio.. Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the MBS and other mortgage assets in which we invest.. The U.S. government, through the Federal Housing Authority and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has implemented programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. The programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or extending the payment terms of the loans. In addition, members of the U.S. Congress have indicated support for additional legislative relief for homeowners. These loan modification programs, as well as future legislative or regulatory actions that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans, may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the MBS in which we invest.. We are subject to the risk that domestic and international crises, despite efforts by global governments to address such crises, may affect interest rates and the availability of financing in general, which could adversely affect our financing and our operating results.. In the years following the financial and credit crisis of 2007-2008, several large European banks experienced financial difficulty and were either rescued by government assistance or by other large European banks. Several European governments have coordinated plans to attempt to shore up their financial sectors through loans, credit. 36. Table of Contents. guarantees, capital infusions, promises of continued liquidity funding and interest rate cuts. Additionally, other governments of the world's largest economic countries also implemented interest rate cuts. There is no assurance that these and other plans and programs will be successful in addressing global credit crises or in preventing other banks from failing. If unsuccessful, this could adversely affect our financing and operations as well as those of the entire mortgage sector in general.. As the European credit crisis continues, there is a continuing risk to the financial condition and stability of major European banks. Many of the European banks have U.S. banking subsidiaries, which have provided financing to us, particularly repurchase agreement financing for the acquisition of various investments, including MBS investments. If the European credit crisis continues to impact major European banks, there is the possibility that it will also impact the operations of their U.S. banking subsidiaries. This could adversely affect our financing and operations as well as those of the entire mortgage sector in general.. Our leveraging strategy increases the risks of our operations.. During the past several years, we have generally borrowed on Agency MBS in a range of five to nine times the amount of our equity, although there may be times when our borrowings are above or below this range. Our leverage on Non-Agency MBS is currently approximately two times on a debt-to-allocated equity basis. We incur this leverage by borrowing against a substantial portion of the market value of our mortgage-related assets. Use of leverage can enhance our investment returns (and at times when we reduce our leverage, our profitability may be reduced as a result). Leverage, however, also increases risks. In the following ways, the use of leverage increases our risk of loss and may reduce our net income by increasing the risks associated with other risk factors including a decline in the market value of our MBS or a default of a mortgage-related asset:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe use of leverage increases our risk of loss resulting from various factors including rising interest rates, increased interest rate volatility, downturns in the economy and reductions in the availability of financing or deterioration in the conditions of any of our mortgage-related assets..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSubstantially all of our borrowings are secured by our MBS, generally under repurchase agreements. A decline in the market value of the MBS used to secure these debt obligations could limit our ability to borrow or result in lenders requiring us to pledge additional collateral to secure our borrowings. In that situation, we could be required to sell MBS under adverse market conditions in order to obtain the additional collateral required by the lender. If these sales are made at prices lower than the carrying value of the MBS, we would experience losses..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA default of a mortgage-related asset that constitutes collateral for a repurchase agreement could also result in an involuntary liquidation of the mortgage-related asset. This would result in a loss to us of the difference between the value of the mortgage-related asset upon liquidation and the amount borrowed against the mortgage-related asset..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tTo the extent we are compelled to liquidate qualified REIT assets to repay debts, our compliance with the REIT rules regarding our assets and our sources of income could be affected, which could jeopardize our status as a REIT. Losing our REIT status would cause us to lose tax advantages applicable to REITs and may decrease our overall profitability and distributions to our stockholders.. We may incur increased borrowing costs related to repurchase agreements and that would adversely affect our profitability.. Substantially all of our borrowings are collateralized borrowings in the form of repurchase agreements. If the interest rates on these agreements increase, that would harm our profitability.. 37. Table of Contents. Our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements generally correspond to short-term interest rates such as LIBOR or a short-term Treasury index, plus or minus a margin. The margins on these borrowings over or under short-term interest rates may vary depending upon:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe movement of interest rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe availability of financing in the market; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe value and liquidity of our mortgage-related assets.. An increase in interest rates may harm our book value, which could adversely affect the cash available for distribution to you and could cause the price of our securities to decline.. Increases in interest rates may harm the market value of our mortgage-related assets. Our hybrid adjustable-rate mortgage-related assets (during the fixed-rate component of the mortgages underlying such assets) and our fixed-rate securities are generally more harmed by these increases. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles utilized in the United States of America, or GAAP, we reduce our book value by the amount of any decrease in the market value of our mortgage-related assets. Losses on securities classified as available-for-sale, which are determined by management to be other-than-temporary in nature, are reclassified from \"accumulated other comprehensive income,\" or AOCI, to current operations.. An increase in interest rates may cause a decrease in the volume of newly issued, or investor demand for, MBS and other mortgage-related assets, which could adversely affect our ability to acquire MBS and other mortgage-related assets that satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends.. Rising interest rates generally reduce the demand for consumer credit, including mortgage loans, due to the higher cost of borrowing. A reduction in the volume of mortgage loans originated may affect the volume of MBS and other mortgage-related assets available to us, which could affect our ability to acquire MBS and other mortgage-related assets that satisfy our investment objectives. Rising interest rates may also cause MBS and other mortgage-related assets that were issued prior to an interest rate increase to provide yields that exceed prevailing market interest rates. If rising interest rates cause us to be unable to acquire a sufficient volume of MBS or mortgage-related assets with a yield that exceeds the borrowing cost we will incur to purchase MBS or mortgage-related assets, our ability to satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends in the amount expected, or at all, may be materially and adversely affected.. A change in the LIBOR setting process could affect the interest rates that borrowing agreement counterparties charge on borrowings in general. Any such change could affect our borrowing agreements and could have an adverse impact on our net interest income.. Over the past several years, U.S. and British banking authorities assessed fines on several major financial institutions for LIBOR manipulation. LIBOR is an unregulated rate based on estimates that lenders submitted to the British Bankers' Association, a trade group that compiled the information and published daily the LIBOR rate. On February 1, 2014, the administration of LIBOR was transferred from the British Bankers' Association to the Intercontinental Exchange Benchmark Administration, or the IBA, following authorization by the Financial Conduct Authority (the United Kingdom regulators). In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority announced that by the end of 2021, LIBOR would be replaced with a more reliable alternative. At this time, we do not know what changes will be made by the Financial Conduct Authority. The calculation of LIBOR under the IBA is the average of the interest rates that some of the world's leading banks charge each other for short-term loans. It is unclear at this time how the change to another alternative to LIBOR will affect the interest rates that repurchase agreement counterparties and lenders charge on borrowings in general and how they could specifically affect our borrowing agreements.. 38. Table of Contents. A flat or inverted yield curve may negatively affect our operations, book value and profitability due to its potential impact on investment yields and the supply of adjustable-rate mortgage products.. A flat yield curve occurs when there is little difference between short-term and long-term interest rates. An inverted yield curve occurs when short-term interest rates are higher than long-term interest rates. A flat or inverted yield curve may be an adverse environment for ARM product volume, as there may be little incentive for borrowers to choose an ARM product over a longer-term fixed-rate loan. If the supply of ARM product decreases, yields may decline due to market forces.. Our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements generally correspond to short-term interest rates such as LIBOR. A flat or inverted yield curve will likely result in lower profits.. Additionally, a flat or inverted yield curve may negatively impact the pricing of our securities. According to GAAP, if the values of our securities decrease, we reduce our book value by the amount of any decrease in the market value of our mortgage-related assets.. We depend on short-term borrowings to purchase mortgage-related assets and reach our desired amount of leverage. If we fail to obtain or renew sufficient funding on favorable terms, we will be limited in our ability to acquire mortgage-related assets and our earnings and profitability would decline.. We depend on short-term borrowings to fund acquisitions of mortgage-related assets and reach our desired amount of leverage. Accordingly, our ability to achieve our investment and leverage objectives depends on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms. In addition, we must be able to renew or replace our maturing short-term borrowings on a continuous basis. Moreover, we depend on a limited number of lenders to provide the primary credit facilities for our purchases of mortgage-related assets.. If we cannot renew or replace maturing borrowings, we may have to sell our mortgage-related assets under adverse market conditions and may incur permanent capital losses as a result. Any number of these factors in combination may cause difficulties for us, including a possible liquidation of a major portion of our portfolio at disadvantageous prices with consequent losses, which may render us insolvent.. Any borrowing arrangements that we use to finance our assets may require us to provide additional collateral or pay down debt, and if these requirements are not met, our financial condition and prospects could deteriorate rapidly.. Our repurchase agreements and other borrowing agreements involve the risk that the market value of the securities pledged or sold by us to the borrowing agreement counterparty may decline in value, in which case the counterparty may require us to provide additional collateral or to repay all or a portion of the funds advanced. We may not have additional collateral or the funds available to repay our debt at that time, which would likely result in defaults unless we are able to raise the funds from alternative sources, which we may not be able to achieve on favorable terms or at all. Posting additional collateral would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. If we cannot meet these requirements, the counterparty could accelerate our indebtedness, increase the interest rate on advanced funds and terminate our ability to borrow funds from them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to implement our investment strategy. In addition, in the event that the counterparty files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, our securities may become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, thus depriving us of the benefit of these assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition and prospects could deteriorate rapidly.. Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or a lender files for bankruptcy.. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay in the event that we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to. 39. Table of Contents. recover our pledged assets in the event that a lender files for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either a lender or us.. Because assets we acquire may experience periods of illiquidity, we may lose profits or be prevented from earning gains if we cannot sell mortgage-related assets at an opportune time.. We bear the risk of being unable to dispose of our mortgage-related assets at advantageous times or in a timely manner because mortgage-related assets generally experience periods of illiquidity. The lack of liquidity may result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on resale. As a result, the illiquidity of mortgage-related assets may cause us to lose profits and lose the ability to earn gains.. A decrease or lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business, including our ability to value and sell our assets.. We invest in certain MBS or other investment securities that are not publicly traded in liquid markets. Moreover, turbulent market conditions could significantly and negatively impact the liquidity of our assets. In some cases, it may be difficult to obtain third-party pricing on certain of our investment securities. Illiquid investments typically experience greater price volatility, as a ready market does not exist, and can be more difficult to value. In addition, third-party pricing for illiquid investments may be more subjective than for more liquid investments. The illiquidity of certain investment securities may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need or desire arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded certain of our investment securities. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We may not have the benefit of repurchase rights or indemnification upon the breach of broad representations and warranties for all of the assets we acquire, which could increase the risk that we suffer losses on such assets.. We may acquire assets from counterparties that are not able or willing to provide broad representations and warranties on such assets. Even if such counterparties provide representations and warranties on the assets, they may not be contractually required to repurchase the assets or indemnify us if there are defaults with respect to the representations and warranties on the assets. To the extent that our counterparties are not contractually obligated to repurchase the assets or are unable to fulfill their indemnification obligations, we will bear the same risks with respect to such assets as if such representations and warranties were not made. If we do not have the benefit of repurchase rights or indemnification upon the breach of broad representations and warranties on our assets, we may lose money on our investments in such assets that we otherwise would not lose had such repurchase rights or indemnification been available.. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates.. We engage in hedging activity from time to time. As such, we use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. When interest rates change, we expect to record a gain or loss on derivatives, which would be offset by an inverse change in the value of loans. Additionally, from time to time, we may enter into hedging transactions in connection with our holdings of MBS and government securities with respect to one or more of our assets or liabilities. Our hedging activities may include entering into interest rate swaps, caps and floors, options to purchase these items and futures and forward contracts. Our actual hedging decisions will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time and may differ from our currently anticipated hedging strategy. We cannot assure you that our use of derivatives will offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. It is likely that there will be periods in the future during which we will incur losses after accounting for our derivative financial instruments. The derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. We cannot assure you. 40. Table of Contents. that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses.. The characteristics of hedging instruments present various concerns, including illiquidity, enforceability, and counterparty risks, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. From time to time, we enter into interest rate swap agreements to hedge risks associated with movements in interest rates. Entities entering into interest rate swap agreements are exposed to credit losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to these transactions. Effective October 12, 2012, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, issued new rules regarding interest rate swaps under the authority granted to it pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. Although these rules do not directly affect the negotiations and terms of individual swap transactions between counterparties, they do require that after September 9, 2013, the clearing of all swap transactions occur through registered derivatives clearing organizations, or swap execution facilities, through standardized documents under which each swap counterparty transfers its position to another entity whereby the centralized clearinghouse effectively becomes the counterparty to each side of the swap. It is the intent of the Dodd-Frank Act that the clearing of interest rate swaps in this manner is designed to avoid concentration of swap risk in any single entity by spreading and centralizing the risk in the clearinghouse and its members. In addition to greater initial and periodic margin (collateral) requirements and additional transaction fees both by the swap execution facility and the clearinghouse, the swap transactions are now subjected to greater regulation by both the CFTC and the SEC. These additional fees, costs, margin requirements, documentation, and regulation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, for all interest rate swaps that we entered into prior to September 9, 2013, we are not required to clear them through the central clearinghouse and these interest rate swaps are still subject to the risks of nonperformance by any of the individual counterparties with whom we entered into these transactions. If the swap counterparty cannot perform under the terms of an interest rate swap, we would not receive payments due under that agreement, we may lose any unrealized gain associated with the interest rate swap, and the hedged liability would cease to be hedged by the interest rate swap. We may also be at risk for any collateral we have pledged to secure our obligation under the interest rate swap if the counterparty becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in a loss and force us to cover our commitments, if any, at the then-current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. There may not always be a liquid secondary market that will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses.. Competition may prevent us from acquiring mortgage-related assets at favorable yields, and that would negatively impact our profitability.. Our net income largely depends on our ability to acquire mortgage-related assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring mortgage-related assets, we compete with other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders and other entities that purchase mortgage-related assets, many of which have greater financial resources than us, and many of which are not subject to the operating constraints associated with REIT tax compliance or maintenance of an exemption from the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may not in the future be able to acquire sufficient mortgage-related assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. If that occurs, our profitability will be harmed.. Interest rate mismatches between our adjustable-rate MBS and our borrowings used to fund our purchases of these assets may reduce our income during periods of changing interest rates.. We fund most of our acquisitions of adjustable-rate MBS (including hybrid adjustable-rate MBS) with borrowings that have interest rates based on indices and repricing terms similar to, but of shorter maturities than, the interest rate indices and repricing terms of our MBS. Accordingly, if short-term interest rates increase, this may harm our profitability.. 41. Table of Contents. A significant portion of the Agency MBS that we acquire are adjustable-rate securities. This means that their interest rates may vary over time based upon changes in a short-term interest rate index. Therefore, in most cases, the interest rate indices and repricing terms of the MBS that we acquire and their funding sources will not be identical, thereby creating an interest rate mismatch between our assets and liabilities. While the historical spread between relevant short-term interest rate indices has been relatively stable, there have been periods when the spread between these indices was volatile. During periods of changing interest rates, these mismatches could reduce our net income, dividend yield and the market price of our stock.. The interest rates on our borrowings generally adjust more frequently than the interest rates on our adjustable-rate MBS. For example, at December 31, 2017, our Agency MBS had a weighted average term to next rate adjustment of approximately 27 months, while our borrowings had a weighted average term to next rate adjustment of 31 days. After adjusting for interest rate swap transactions, the weighted average term to next rate adjustment was 674 days. Accordingly, in a period of rising interest rates, we could experience a decrease in net income or a net loss because the interest rates on our borrowings adjust faster than the interest rates on our adjustable-rate MBS.. Increased levels of prepayments from Agency MBS may decrease our net interest income.. Pools of mortgage loans underlie the MBS that we acquire. We generally receive payments from principal payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans. When borrowers prepay their mortgage loans faster than expected, this results in prepayments that are faster than expected on the MBS. Faster than expected prepayments could harm our profitability as follows:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe primarily purchase Agency MBS that have a higher interest rate than the market interest rate at the time. In exchange for this higher interest rate, we pay a premium over the par value to acquire the security. In accordance with accounting rules, we amortize this premium over the term of the mortgage-backed security. If the mortgage-backed security is prepaid in whole or in part prior to its maturity date, however, we expense the premium that was prepaid at the time of the prepayment. At December 31, 2017, substantially all of our Agency MBS had been acquired at a premium..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe anticipate that a substantial portion of our adjustable-rate Agency MBS may bear interest rates that are lower than their fully indexed rates, which are equivalent to the applicable index rate plus a margin. If an adjustable-rate mortgage-backed security is prepaid prior to or soon after the time of adjustment to a fully indexed rate, we will have held that mortgage-backed security while it was less profitable and lost the opportunity to receive interest at the fully indexed rate over the remainder of its expected life..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIf we are unable to acquire new Agency MBS similar to the prepaid MBS, our financial condition, results of operation and cash flow would suffer.. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions, actions by the federal government and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans.. While we seek to minimize prepayment risk to the extent practical, in selecting investments, we must balance prepayment risk against other risks and the potential returns of each investment. No strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment risk.. The timing and amount of prepayments could adversely affect our liquidity and our profitability.. Prepayments may be difficult to predict and can vary significantly over time. As a holder of MBS, on a monthly basis, we receive a payment equal to a portion of our investment principal as the underlying mortgages are prepaid. With respect to our Agency MBS, we typically receive notice of monthly principal prepayments on the fifth business day of each month (more commonly referred to as \"factor day\") and receive the related scheduled payment on a specified later date, which for (a) Agency MBS guaranteed by Fannie Mae is the 25th day of that month (or the next business day. 42. Table of Contents. thereafter); and (b) Agency MBS guaranteed by Freddie Mac is the 15th day of the following month (or the next business day thereafter). This delay between factor day and receipt of payment creates a short-term receivable for us in the amount of any such principal prepayments. In general, on the date each month that the principal prepayments are announced (factor day), the value of our MBS pledged as collateral is reduced by the amount of the prepaid principal and, as a result, our repurchase agreement counterparties will typically initiate a margin call requiring the pledge of additional collateral or cash, in an amount equal to such prepaid principal, in order to re-establish the required ratio of borrowing to collateral value under such repurchase agreements. As the posting of such additional collateral or payment of cash to our counterparties is on or about factor day and is prior to the receipt of the payment to us by the agencies, this would reduce and, depending on the magnitude of such principal prepayments, could be material to, our liquidity. As a result, in order to meet such margin calls, we could be forced to sell assets or take other actions in order to maintain liquidity. If we were required to sell Agency MBS under adverse market conditions, we may receive sale prices lower than we might have received if we sold those securities under normal market conditions and, if these prices were lower than the amortized cost of the Agency MBS, we would incur losses. An increase in prepayment rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may experience reduced net interest income from holding fixed-rate investments during periods of rising interest rates.. We generally fund our acquisition of fixed-rate MBS with short-term borrowings. During periods of rising interest rates, our costs associated with borrowings used to fund acquisition of fixed-rate assets are subject to increases while the income we earn from these assets remains substantially fixed. This reduces or could eliminate the net interest spread between the fixed-rate MBS that we purchase and our borrowings used to purchase them, which could lower our net interest income or cause us to suffer a loss. At December 31, 2017, 25% of our MBS were 15 - year fixed-rate Agency MBS, 18% of our MBS were 20-year and 30-year fixed-rate Agency MBS, and approximately 14% of our MBS were fixed-rate Non-Agency MBS.. Interest rate caps on our adjustable-rate MBS may reduce our income or cause us to suffer a loss during periods of rising interest rates.. Our adjustable-rate MBS (including hybrid adjustable-rate MBS) are subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during any given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase through maturity of a mortgage-backed security. Our borrowings are not subject to similar restrictions. Accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates paid on our borrowings could increase without limitation while interest rate caps would limit the interest rates on our adjustable-rate MBS. This problem is magnified for our adjustable-rate MBS that are not fully indexed. Further, some adjustable-rate MBS may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in a portion of the interest being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. As a result, we could receive less cash income on adjustable-rate MBS than we need to pay interest on our related borrowings. These factors could lower our net interest income or cause us to suffer a loss during periods of rising interest rates. At December 31, 2017, approximately 43% of our MBS were adjustable-rate securities.. A decline in the fair market value of our Non-Agency MBS could result in us recording impairments on these investments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. A majority of our Non-Agency MBS are accounted for under ASC 310 - 30, Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Credit Deterioration (ASC 310 - 30). A debt security accounted for under ASC 310 - 30 is initially recorded at its purchase price (fair value). The amount of expected cash flows that exceed the initial investment represents accretable yield, which is recognized as interest income on a level yield basis over the life of the security. The excess of total contractual cash flows over the cash flows expected at its origination is considered to be non-accretable yield. The Company must periodically reassess the expected cash flows of loans accounted for under ASC 310 - 30 along with the cash flows received. A significant increase in expected cash flows must be accounted for as an increase in the rate of accretion over the remaining life of the security. Conversely, if expected cash flows decrease, an other-than-temporary impairment must be recognized as a charge to earnings. Adjustments to the fair value of Non-Agency MBS, accounted for as available-for-sale securities, are recorded in AOCI. The determination as to whether impairment and accretable. 43. Table of Contents. yield exists is based on cash flow projections related to the securities. As a result, the timing and amount of impairment and accretable yield constitutes a material estimate that is susceptible to significant change.. Our investments in Non-Agency MBS and residential mortgage loans held-for-investment involve credit risk, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. Investments in MBS carry a risk that the borrower on the underlying mortgage may default on their obligations to make full and timely payments of principal and interest. Pursuant to our investment policy, we have the ability to acquire Non-Agency MBS and other investment assets of lower credit quality (less than investment grade). In general, Non-Agency MBS and residential mortgage loans held-for-investment carry greater investment risk than Agency MBS because they are not guaranteed as to principal and/or interest by the U.S. Government, any federal agency or any federally chartered corporation. Unexpectedly high rates of default (i.e., in excess of the default rates forecasted) and/or higher than expected loss severities on the mortgages collateralizing our Non-Agency MBS and residential mortgage loans held-for-investment may adversely affect the values of such assets. Accordingly, Non-Agency MBS and other investment assets of less-than-high credit quality could cause us to incur losses of income from, and/or losses in market value relating to, these assets if there are defaults of principal and/or interest on these assets.. We may have significant credit risk, especially on Non-Agency MBS and residential mortgage loans held-for-investment, in certain geographic areas and may be disproportionately affected by economic or housing downturns, natural disasters, terrorist events, adverse climate changes or other adverse events specific to those markets.. A significant number of the mortgages collateralizing our mortgage assets may be concentrated in certain geographic areas. Any event that adversely affects the economy or real estate market in these areas could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our mortgage assets. In general, any material decline in the economy or significant difficulties in the real estate markets would be likely to cause a decline in the value of residential properties securing the mortgages in the relevant geographic area. This, in turn, would increase the risk of delinquency, default and foreclosure on real estate collateralizing our mortgage assets in this area. This may then materially adversely affect our credit loss experience on our mortgage assets in such area if unexpectedly high rates of default (i.e., in excess of the default rates forecasted) and/or higher than expected loss severities on the mortgages collateralizing such securities were to occur.. The occurrence of a natural disaster (such as an earthquake, tornado, hurricane, wildfires, or a flood), economic or housing downturns, terrorist events, significant adverse climate change, or any other adverse event may cause a sudden decrease in the value of real estate and would likely reduce the value of the properties securing the mortgages collateralizing or mortgage assets. Since certain natural disasters may not typically be covered by the standard hazard insurance policies maintained by borrowers, the borrowers may not be able to repair the properties or may stop paying their mortgages if the property is damaged. This would likely cause defaults and credit loss severities to increase on the pool of mortgages securing our mortgage assets which may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We invest in Non-Agency MBS that are collateralized by loans of lower credit quality, such as Alt-A loans or securitized non-performing loans, which, due to lower underwriting standards, are subject to increased risk of losses.. We invest in Non-Agency MBS backed by collateral pools containing mortgage loans that have been originated using underwriting standards that are less strict than those used in underwriting \"prime mortgage loans\" (mortgage loans that generally conform to the underwriting standards of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac). These loans may experience delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss rates that are higher than \"prime mortgage loans,\" which could cause the performance of Non-Agency MBS backed by such lower credit quality loans to be adversely affected, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We may generate taxable income that differs from our GAAP income on Non-Agency MBS purchased at a discount to par value, which may result in significant timing differences in the recognition of income and losses.. We acquire Non-Agency MBS at prices that reflect significant market discounts on their unpaid principal balances. For financial statement reporting purposes, we would generally establish, on such securities, a portion of the. 44. Table of Contents. discount as a non-accretable discount. This non-accretable discount is generally not accreted into income for financial statement purposes. For tax purposes, however, we would not be permitted to establish a reserve for credit losses prior to their actual occurrence. Such differences between tax accounting and GAAP accounting can lead to significant timing differences in the recognition of income and losses. Taxable income on Non-Agency MBS purchased at a discount to par value may be higher than GAAP income in early periods (before losses are actually incurred) and lower than GAAP income in subsequent periods when the realized credit losses are incurred. As a REIT must distribute at least 90% of its annual taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to our stockholders, such timing differences could affect the amount of the dividend distribution. However, dividends are declared and paid at the discretion of our Board and depend not only on REIT taxable income but also on our financial results, our overall financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and such other factors as our board may deem relevant from time to time.. Generally, Non-Agency MBS have greater price sensitivity than Agency MBS, which could cause fluctuations in our book value. Such price fluctuations could cause repurchase agreement lenders to require greater amounts of collateral and higher margin requirements, which could affect our results of operations and could cause us to sell our Non-Agency MBS at potentially distressed prices in periods of significant price fluctuation. It could also cause repurchase agreement lenders to withdraw their financing from such investments.. Non-Agency MBS historically have been more price sensitive than Agency MBS which may limit the number of lenders willing to provide repurchase agreement financing for these securities. In periods of price volatility, we may be subject to higher margin requirements or may be required to pledge additional collateral which could affect our results of operations. Also, during periods of significant price fluctuation, lenders may cut back the amounts they are willing to finance on such investments or withdraw from lending on such securities. If we could not find replacement financing, this could cause us to sell our Non-Agency MBS at potentially distressed prices, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We acquire MBS and loans that are subject to defaults, foreclosure timeline extensions, fraud, residential price depreciation, and unfavorable modifications of principal amounts, interest rates and amortization of principal, which could result in losses to us.. Mortgage-backed securities are secured by mortgage loans (primarily single-family residential properties for MBS). Accordingly, the MBS we invest in are subject to all the risks of the respective underlying mortgage loans, including risks of defaults, foreclosure timeline extensions, fraud, price depreciation, and unfavorable modifications of principal amounts, interest rates and amortization of principal, accompanying the underlying mortgage loans.. The ability of a borrower to repay a mortgage loan secured by a residential property is dependent in part upon the income and assets of the borrower. A number of factors over which we have no control may impair borrowers' ability to repay their loans.. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. In the event of defaults on the mortgage loans that underlie our investments and the exhaustion of any underlying or any additional credit support, we may not realize our anticipated return on our investments and we may incur a loss on these investments.. Our subordinated mortgage assets may be in the \"first loss\" position, subjecting us to greater risks of loss.. We invest in certain tranches of mortgage assets that are only entitled to a portion of the principal and interest payments made on mortgage loans underlying the securities issued by the securitization trust. In general, losses on a mortgage loan included in an MBS securitization trust will be borne first by the equity holder of the issuing trust, if any, and then by the \"first loss\" subordinated security holder and then by the \"second loss\" subordinate holder and so on.. We may acquire securities at every level of such a securitization trust, from the equity position to the most senior tranche. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any classes of securities junior to those which we acquire, our securities will suffer losses as well. In addition, if we overvalue the underlying mortgage portfolio, or if the values. 45. Table of Contents. subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related MBS, the securities which we acquire may effectively become the \"first loss\" position ahead of the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly-rated securities, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. A projection of an economic downturn could cause a decline in the value of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors or mortgages underlying MBS to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities.. If our Manager underestimates the collateral loss on our investments, we may experience losses.. Our Manager values our potential investments based on loss-adjusted yields, taking into account estimated future losses on the mortgage loans that collateralize the investments, and the estimated impact of these losses on expected future cash flows. Our Manager's loss estimates may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates. In the event that our Manager underestimates the pool level losses relative to the price we pay for a particular investment, we may experience losses with respect to such investment.. Our ownership of securitized mortgage loans subjects us to credit risk and, although we provide for an allowance for loan losses on these loans as required under GAAP, the loss reserves are based on estimates. As a result, actual losses incurred may be larger than our reserves, requiring us to provide additional reserves, which would impact our financial position and results of operations.. We are subject to credit risk as a result of our ownership of securitized mortgage loans. Credit risk is the risk of loss to us from the failure by a borrower (or the proceeds from the liquidation of the underlying collateral) to fully repay the principal balance and interest due on a mortgage loan. A borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the underlying collateral could be negatively impacted by economic and market conditions. These conditions could be global, national, regional or local in nature.. We provide reserves for losses on securitized mortgage loans based on the current performance of the respective pool or on an individual loan basis. If losses are experienced more rapidly due to declining property performance, market conditions or other factors, than we have provided for in our reserves, we may be required to provide additional reserves for these loans. In addition, our allowance for loan losses is based on estimates and to the extent that proceeds from the liquidation of the underlying collateral are less than our estimates, we will record a reduction in our profitability for that period equal to the shortfall.. We may be adversely affected by risks affecting borrowers or the asset or property types in which our investments may be concentrated at any given time, as well as from unfavorable changes in the related geographic regions.. Our assets are not subject to any geographic, diversification or concentration limitations, except that we expect our assets to be concentrated in mortgage-related investments. Accordingly, our investment portfolio may be concentrated by geography, asset, property type and/or borrower, increasing the risk of loss to us if the particular concentration in our investment portfolio is subject to greater risks or undergo adverse developments. In addition, adverse conditions in the areas where the properties securing or otherwise underlying our investments are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors) and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply or reduced demand) may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments. A material decline in the demand for real estate in these areas may materially and adversely affect us. Lack of diversification can increase the correlation of non-performance and foreclosure risks among our investments.. Our investments may include subordinated tranches of Non-Agency MBS, which are subordinate in right of payment to more senior tranches, subjecting us to greater risk of losses.. We may invest in subordinated tranches of Non-Agency MBS, which are subordinated classes of securities in a structure of securities collateralized by a pool of mortgage loans and, accordingly, are among the first to bear the losses from non-payment and default of the underlying collateral. Additionally, estimated fair values of these subordinated. 46. Table of Contents. interests tend to be more sensitive to changes in economic conditions than more senior securities. A projection of an economic downturn could cause a decline in the value of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors or mortgages underlying non-agency MBS to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities.. Government use of eminent domain to seize underwater mortgages could materially and adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our Non-Agency MBS.. The mortgages securing our Non-Agency MBS are located in different geographic regions across the United States, with significantly higher exposure in California, New York and Florida. Several county and municipal governments have discussed using eminent domain to seize from mortgage holders the mortgages of borrowers who are underwater but not in default. In August 2013, the FHFA released a statement expressing serious concerns on the use of eminent domain to restructure mortgages based on a review it conducted since requesting public input on the proposal in August 2012 and indicated that it may take action in response to such use. However, if definitive action is taken by any local governments and such actions withstand Constitutional and other legal challenges resulting in mortgages securing our Non-Agency MBS being seized using eminent domain, the consideration received from the seizing authorities for such mortgages may be substantially less than the outstanding principal balance, which would result in a realized loss and a corresponding write-down of the principal balance of those mortgages. The result of these seizures would be that the amount we receive on our Non-Agency MBS would be less than we would have otherwise received if the mortgage loans had not been seized, which may result in a decline in the market value and an other-than-temporary impairment of these securities. If governments adopt such plans and mortgages securing our Non-Agency MBS are seized on a widespread scale, it could have a material adverse effect on the value of and/or returns on our Non-Agency MBS and our results of operations.. Mortgage loan modification and refinancing programs and future legislative action may materially adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our Non-Agency MBS.. The U.S. Government, through the Federal Reserve, the FHFA and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has implemented a number of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. These programs and other loss mitigation programs may involve, among other things, the modification or refinancing of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans, reduction in the rate of interest payable on the loans and extend the payment terms of the loans. Loan modification may lead to fewer foreclosures and reduce the losses on non-Agency MBS arising from foreclosures. However, loan modifications and refinancing may also result in significant reductions in cash flows to the holders of these securities, which may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, these assets.. The servicing of the mortgage loans that are the underlying collateral of our Non-Agency MBS is outside of our control, and if this servicing is not successful in limiting future delinquencies, defaults and losses, it could adversely affect our results of operations.. Third party servicers provide for the servicing of the mortgage loans that are the underlying collateral of our Non-Agency MBS. These service providers control all aspects of loan collection, loss mitigation, default management and ultimate resolution of a defaulted loan. We have no contractual rights with respect to these service providers and their efforts may not be successful in limiting future delinquencies, defaults and losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. The Non-Agency MBS in which we invest, and the mortgage loans underlying the Non-Agency MBS in which we invest, are subject to delinquency, foreclosure, and loss, which could result in losses to us.. Residential mortgage loans are secured by single-family residential property and are subject to risks of loss, delinquency and foreclosure. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property is dependent upon the income or assets of the borrower. A number of factors, including a general economic downturn, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances, may impair borrowers' abilities to repay their loans.. 47. Table of Contents. Residential MBS evidence interests in or are secured by pools of residential mortgage loans and collateralized MBS evidence interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, the Non-Agency MBS we invest in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. In the event of defaults with respect to the mortgage loans that underlie our Non-Agency MBS investments and the exhaustion of any underlying or additional credit support, we may not realize our anticipated return on these investments and we may incur a loss on these investments.. We may invest in securities in the developing Agency risk transfer sector that are subject to mortgage credit risk.. We may invest in securities in the developing Agency risk transfer sector (\"CRT Sector\"). The CRT Sector is comprised of the risk sharing transactions issued by Fannie Mae (\"CAS\") and Freddie Mac (\"STACR\") and similarly structured transactions arranged by third party market principals. The securities issued in the CRT Sector are designed to synthetically transfer mortgage credit risk from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to private investors. Currently, CAS and STACR transactions are structured and unsecured and unguaranteed bonds issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, respectively, whose principal payments are determined by the delinquency and prepayment experience of a reference pool of mortgages originated and guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, respectively, in a particular quarter. Transactions arranged by third party market participants in the CRT Sector are similarly structured to reference a specific pool of loans that have been securitized by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and synthetically transfer mortgage credit risk related to those loans to the purchaser of the securities. The holder of the securities in the CRT Sector has the risk that the borrowers may default on their obligations to make full and timely payments of principal and interest. Investments in securities in the CRT Sector could cause us to incur losses of income from, and/or losses in market value relating to, those assets if there are defaults of principal and/or interest on the pool of mortgages referenced in the transaction.. We may invest in leveraged mortgage derivative securities that generally experience greater volatility in market prices, thus exposing us to greater risk with respect to their rate of return.. We may acquire leveraged mortgage derivative securities that may expose us to a high level of interest rate risk. The characteristics of leveraged mortgage derivative securities result in greater volatility in their market prices. Thus, acquisition of leveraged mortgage derivative securities would expose us to the risk of greater price volatility in our portfolio and that could harm our net income and overall profitability.. New assets we acquire may not generate yields as attractive or be as accretive to book value as have been experienced historically.. We may acquire new assets as we receive principal and interest payments and prepayments from our existing assets. We also sell assets from time to time as part of our portfolio and asset/liability management programs. We may invest these proceeds into new earning assets.. New assets may not generate yields as attractive as we have experienced historically. Business conditions, including credit results, prepayment patterns and interest rate trends in the future, may not be as favorable as they have been during the periods we held the replaced assets.. New assets may not be as accretive to book value as existing assets. The market value of our assets is sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. In the past as short-term interest rates increased, the market value of our existing assets has declined. As we classify most of our Agency MBS and Non-Agency MBS as available-for-sale, accounting rules require that any unrealized losses from the decline in market value that are not considered to be an other-than-temporary impairment be carried as \"accumulated other comprehensive loss\" in the \"Stockholders' equity\" section of the consolidated balance sheets. When short-term interest rates stop increasing, or start declining, or when the interest rates on these securities reset, the market value of these assets may increase. This may be more accretive to book value than the new assets that we acquire to replace existing assets.. 48. Table of Contents. If we are unable to find suitable investments, we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives or pay dividends.. The availability of mortgage-related assets meeting our criteria depends upon, among other things, the level of activity and quality of and demand for these investments in the mortgage securitization and secondary markets. The market for these investments depends upon various factors including the level of activity in the residential real estate market, the level of and difference between short-term and long-term interest rates, incentives for issuers to securitize mortgage loans and demand for these investments by institutional investors. The size and level of activity in the residential real estate lending market depends upon various factors, including the level of interest rates, regional and national economic conditions and real estate values. To the extent we are unable to acquire a sufficient volume of mortgage-related assets meeting our criteria, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire sufficient mortgage-related assets at spreads above our costs of funds.. We are dependent upon information systems and communication systems and their failure could significantly disrupt our business.. Our business is highly dependent upon our information and communication systems. Although we have implemented various structural and security policy enhancements to our information systems in recent years, such as a cybersecurity policy manual, employee training, and enhanced firewall, antivirus/malware protection, problems with our computer systems could still occur. Any failure or interruption of our systems, or cyber-attacks, or security breaches of our networks or systems, or of those systems of our service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, the market price of our common stock and other securities, and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. In addition, we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including clearing agents or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions.. Computer malware, viruses, and computer hacking, phishing, and cyber-attacks have become more prevalent in our industry and may occur on our systems in the future. We rely heavily on financial, accounting, and other data processing systems, including those systems of our service providers. It is difficult to determine what, if any, negative impact may directly result from any specific interruption or cyber-attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems (or the networks or systems of, among other third parties, our lenders), or any failure to maintain performance, reliability, and security of our technical infrastructure. As a result, such computer malware, viruses, and computer hacking, phishing and cyber-attacks may negatively affect our operations.. Risks Related to Our Management. We have no employees and our Manager is responsible for making all of our investment decisions. The employees of our Manager are not required to devote any specific amount of time to our business.. Effective December 31, 2011, in accordance with the Management Agreement, we have no employees and all our prior employees became employees of our Manager. Our Manager is responsible for conducting our day-to-day operations and is responsible for the selection, purchase and sale of our investment portfolio; our financing and hedging activities; providing us with management services; and such other services and activities relating to our assets and operations as may be appropriate.. Messrs. Lloyd McAdams, Joseph E. McAdams, and others are officers and employees of our Manager and are also officers and employees of Pacific Income Advisers, Inc., or PIA, where they devote a portion of their time. These officers and employees are under no contractual obligations mandating minimum amounts of time to be devoted to our Company. In addition, a trust controlled in part by Mr. Lloyd McAdams is the principal stockholder of PIA.. These officers and employees are involved in investing approximately $8.1 billion (including our assets) in MBS and other fixed income assets for institutional clients and individual investors through PIA at December 31, 2017. These multiple responsibilities and ownerships may create conflicts of interest if these officers and employees of our Company. 49. Table of Contents. are presented with opportunities that may benefit both us and the clients of PIA. These officers allocate investments among our portfolio and the clients of PIA by determining the entity or account for which the investment is most suitable. In making this determination, these officers consider the investment strategy and guidelines of each entity or account with respect to acquisition of assets, leverage, liquidity and other factors that our officers determine appropriate. These officers, however, have no obligation to make any specific investment opportunities available to us and the above-mentioned conflicts of interest may result in decisions or allocations of securities that are not in our best interests.. Additionally, there is nothing in the Management Agreement that prevents our Manager or any of its Affiliates, officers, directors or employees from engaging in other businesses or from rendering services of any kind to any other Person or entity, whether or not the investment objectives or policies of any such other Person or entity are similar to those of the Company or in any way binds or restricts our Manager or any of its Affiliates, officers, directors or employees from buying, selling or trading any securities or commodities for their own accounts or for the accounts of others for whom our Manager or any of its Affiliates, officers, directors or employees may be acting.. Mr. Lloyd McAdams is also an owner and Chairman of Syndicated Capital, Inc., a registered broker-dealer. Syndicated Capital, Inc. has been authorized by our Board to act as an authorized broker on any buyback of the Company's common stock. The service to PIA and Syndicated Capital, Inc. by the officers and employees of our Manager allow them to spend only part of their time and effort managing our Company, as they are required to devote a portion of their time and effort to the management of other companies, and this may harm our overall management and operating results.. Messrs. Lloyd McAdams, Joseph E. McAdams, Charles J. Siegel, John T. Hillman, Ms. Heather U. Baines, and others are officers and employees of PIA Farmland, Inc. and its external manager, PIA, where they devote a portion of their time. PIA Farmland, Inc., a privately-held real estate investment trust investing in U.S. farmland properties leased to independent farm operators, was incorporated in February 2013. These officers and employees are under no contractual obligations to PIA Farmland, Inc., its external manager, PIA, or to Anworth or its external manager, Anworth Management, LLC, as to their time commitment. To the extent that significant time is devoted to PIA Farmland, Inc. and its external manager, this could harm our overall management and operating results. Mr. Steven Koomar, the Chief Executive Officer of PIA Farmland, Inc., has no involvement with either our Company or our Manager.. We are completely dependent upon our Manager, who provides services to us through the Management Agreement, and we may not find suitable replacements for our Manager if the Management Agreement is terminated or such key personnel are no longer available to us. The loss of any key personnel of our Manager could harm our operations.. We no longer have any employees and are completely dependent on our Manager to conduct our operations pursuant to the Management Agreement. Our Manager has its own employees, which conduct its day-to-day operations. The Management Agreement does not require our Manager to dedicate specific personnel to our operations.. If we terminate the Management Agreement without cause, we may not, without the consent of our Manager, employ any employee of our Manager or any of its Affiliates, or any Person who has been employed by our Manager or any of its Affiliates at any time within the two year period immediately preceding the date on which the Person commences employment with us for two years after such termination of the Management Agreement. We will not have retention agreements with any of our officers. We believe that the successful implementation of our investment and financing strategies will depend upon the experience of certain of our Manager's officers and employees. None of these individuals' continued service is guaranteed. If the Management Agreement is terminated or these individuals leave our Manager, our Manager may be unable to replace them with persons with appropriate experience, or at all, and we may not be able to execute our business plan.. We depend on the diligence, experience and skill of the officers and employees of our Manager for the selection, structuring and monitoring of our mortgage-related assets and associated borrowings. The key officers of our Manager include Mr. Lloyd McAdams, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mr. Joseph E. McAdams, our President and Chief Investment Officer; Mr. Charles J. Siegel, our Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary; Mr. Brett Roth, Senior Vice President; and Ms. Bistra Pashamova, Senior Vice President. Our dependence on our Manager is heightened by the fact that they have a relatively small number of employees and the loss of any key person could harm our entire. 50. Table of Contents. business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. In particular, the loss of the services of Messrs. Lloyd McAdams or Joseph E. McAdams could seriously harm our business.. The Management Agreement was not negotiated on an arm's-length basis and the terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it were negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.. Effective as of December 31, 2011, we entered into the Management Agreement, which effected the externalization of our management function. The Management Agreement was negotiated between related parties, and we did not have the benefit of arm's-length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third party. The terms of the Management Agreement, including fees payable, may not reflect the terms we may have received if it was negotiated with an unrelated third party. In addition, as a result of this relationship, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the Management Agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our Manager.. If we elect to not renew the Management Agreement without cause, we would be required to pay our Manager a substantial termination fee.. It will be costly for us if we elect not to renew the Management Agreement without cause.. With the consent of the majority of our independent directors, and with at least 180 - days' prior written notice before the end of the calendar year, we may elect to not renew the Management Agreement at the end of the calendar year. If we elect not to renew the Management Agreement without cause, we will be required to pay our Manager a termination fee equal to three times the average annual management fee earned by our Manager during the 24 - month period immediately preceding the most recently completed quarter prior to the year-end termination of the Management Agreement.. After giving notice of our intent to not renew the Management Agreement without cause, we will continue to be required to pay our Manager the management fees stated in the Management Agreement until the end of the calendar year that the Management Agreement is not renewed. If such notice is given less than 180 days prior to the end of the calendar year, the management fees will be paid until termination of the Management Agreement at the end of the following calendar year.. At December 31, 2017, if this termination event had occurred, the termination fee, based on the average annual management fee earned by our Manager during the 24 - month period immediately preceding the most recently completed quarter prior to the effective date of termination, would be approximately $23 million.. If we do not renew the Management Agreement for any reason, we would continue to be obligated to pay the sublease on our office premises in California.. Our obligation to pay the sublease on our office premises does not end with termination of the Management Agreement. There can be no assurance that we can sublease our office space to another tenant at a rate which eliminates this obligation and is satisfactory to the sublessor and the building owner.. If we elect to not renew the Management Agreement without cause for two years thereafter, we may not retain any of our Manager's employees to assist us in managing the Company on a full-time or interim basis.. The Management Agreement provides that, without the consent of our Manager, the Company may not, for two years after termination of the Management Agreement, employ any employee of our Manager, or any of its Affiliates, or any person who has been employed by our Manager or any of its Affiliates, at any time within the two-year period immediately preceding the date on which the person commences employment with the Company. This provision would make it unlikely that the Company would be able to immediately rely on the experience and knowledge of the employees of the former Manager to assist in any changes made by our Board, including assisting with the sale, or the sale or liquidation of a substantial portion of the assets, of the Company.. 51. Table of Contents. Various corporate actions require the approval of the majority of all shareholders.. There are corporate actions which can be implemented only if a majority of all shareholders approves at a convened meeting of shareholders. There can be no assurance that a majority of all shareholders will vote to approve any measure that only a majority of the voting shareholders had previously approved. Examples of actions which require the approval of a majority of all shareholders to pass are: an agreement of consolidation, merger, share exchange or transfer of assets; for dissolution of the Corporation; or for a business combination between the Corporation and an interested stockholder.. In the event of a change of control, we will owe certain of the officers and employees of our Manager a payment as specified in their Change of Control and Arbitration Agreements between these officers/employees and the Company.. In the event of a change of control of the Company, we would incur the costs of paying lump sum payments and other employee benefits to certain of the officers and employees of our Manager as specified in their Change of Control and Arbitration Agreement between these officers/employees and the Company.. The management fee is payable regardless of our performance.. Our Manager is entitled to receive a management fee from us that is based on 1.20% of our Equity (as defined in our Management Agreement), regardless of the performance of our investment portfolio. For example, we would pay our Manager a management fee for a specific period even if we experienced a net loss during the same period. Our Manager's entitlement to substantial nonperformance-based compensation may reduce its incentive to devote sufficient time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our investment portfolio. This in turn could harm our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.. The fee structure of the Management Agreement may limit our Manager's ability to retain access to its key personnel.. Under the terms of the Management Agreement, we are required to pay our Manager a base management fee payable monthly in arrears in an amount equal to one twelfth of 1.20% of our Equity. Our Equity is defined as our month-end stockholders' equity, adjusted to exclude the effect of any unrealized gains or losses included in either retained earnings or other comprehensive income, each as computed in accordance with GAAP. The Management Agreement does not provide our Manager with an incentive management fee that would pay our Manager additional compensation as a result of meeting performance targets. Some of our externally-managed competitors pay their managers an incentive management fee, which enables them to provide additional compensation to their key personnel. Thus, the lack of an incentive fee in the Management Agreement may limit the ability of our Manager to provide key personnel with additional compensation for strong performance, which could adversely affect our Manager's ability to retain these key personnel. If our Manager were not able to retain any of the key personnel providing services to our Manager, it would have to find replacement personnel to provide those services. Those replacement key personnel may not be able to produce the same operating results as the current key personnel.. Some investors may not view our external management in a positive light, which may affect the market price of our common stock, and may make it more difficult for future offerings of our stock.. Although there are currently other mortgage REITs that are externally-managed, there may be times in the future when some investors may have a preference for internally-managed companies. There may also be times, if there are low returns from our portfolio, when our external management is not viewed in a positive light. In either of these cases, there may be a negative effect on the market price of our common stock, and this may make it difficult for future offerings of our common stock.. Potential conflicts of interest could arise if our Manager were to take greater risk for the purpose of increasing our equity in order to earn a greater management fee.. The Management Agreement does not contain an incentive fee. Our Manager is paid a base management fee payable monthly in arrears in an amount equal to one twelfth of 1.20% of our Equity, as defined in the Management. 52. Table of Contents. Agreement. As the Management Agreement does not contain an incentive fee, our Manager may take greater risk in our investment portfolio to increase our equity in order to earn a greater management fee.. Our Manager's liability is limited under the Management Agreement and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities.. Pursuant to the Management Agreement, our Manager does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and is not responsible for any action of our Board in following or declining to follow any advice or recommendation of our Manager. Our Manager and its Affiliates, and the directors, officers, employees and stockholders of our Manager and its Affiliates, are not liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our Board or our stockholders for any acts or omissions by our Manager, its officers, employees or its Affiliates, performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Management Agreement, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of their respective duties under this Management Agreement. We have agreed to indemnify our Manager and its Affiliates, its directors, officers, employees and stockholders of our Manager and its Affiliates (each a \"Manager Indemnified Party\") of and from any and all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims of any nature whatsoever (including reasonable attorneys' fees) in respect of or arising from any acts or omissions of such Manager Indemnified Party, not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of duties of such Manager Indemnified Party under this Management Agreement.. Our Manager has limited resources and may not be able to defend itself in litigation.. The only fee that our Manager receives from us is the base management fee, as previously described. It is anticipated that most, if not all, of this fee will be used by our Manager for compensation to its employees and to pay for its other administrative expenses. Our Manager has limited resources. If our Manager were to be involved in litigation not related to our operations, it may not be able to defend itself and it may be forced to declare bankruptcy or go out of business and we would have to find another Manager. This could have a material adverse impact on our business and our operations.. Failure of our Manager to comply with SEC rules and regulations could cause various disciplinary actions, which could cause a disruption in services provided to us, and may impact our business operations and our profitability.. Under rules promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act, our Manager is considered an investment adviser. In reliance upon the no-action letter issued by the SEC to the American Bar Association on January 18, 2012, we consider Anworth Management, LLC to be a \"relying adviser,\" which means that its registration as an investment adviser is integrated into the existing registration of PIA, its \"filing adviser.\" Anworth Management, LLC and PIA are both subject to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and the rules and regulations of the SEC and also are subject to examination by the SEC. Any failure by Anworth Management, LLC, PIA, or any of their respective employees to comply with such rules and regulations could cause various disciplinary actions, up to and including loss of registration status as investment advisers. Such disciplinary actions could lead to disruptions in the services provided to us which may impact our business operations and our profitability.. Our Board may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval and such changes could harm our business, results of operations and stock price.. Our Board can modify or waive our current operating policies and our strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies may have on our business, operating results and stock price, however, the effects may be adverse.. Risks Related to Our Residential Properties Business. We are in an industry that has significant competition, and we have limited operating history in this sector, which makes this business difficult to evaluate, and may affect our ability to operate this business in a profitable manner.. Historically, the single-family residential rental business consisted primarily of private individual investors in. 53. Table of Contents. local markets and was managed individually or by small local property managers. Within the past several years, several institutional companies and REITs have entered this market and have attempted to acquire and operate single-family properties on a large-scale basis and to achieve attractive yields employing technology through a disciplined approach to acquisitions and leasing, marketing and management. Many of our competitors may be larger and have greater financial, technical, leasing, marketing and other resources than we do, which may affect our ability to acquire our target properties at attractive prices and attract quality tenants.. In addition, although we have several employees who have previously personally engaged in this business on a small scale, we have limited operating history as a company in this business and contract with various third-party professionals to assist us in acquiring and managing our properties and providing services to tenants. If these professionals do a poor job or don't perform to our expectations, it could affect the prices we pay to acquire properties, our relationships with our tenants, the operation of our properties, and our reputation in this business. These factors make this business difficult to evaluate, and may affect our ability to operate this business in a profitable manner.. Many factors affect the single-family residential rental market, and the profitability of this business will be affected both by our assumptions about this market and this market's conditions in our target areas.. The success of our business model will depend upon many factors including, but not limited to: the availability of properties that meet our investment criteria and our ability to acquire such properties at favorable prices; real estate appreciation or depreciation in our target markets; the condition of our properties; our ability to contain renovation, maintenance, marketing and other operating costs for our properties; our ability to maintain high occupancy rates and target rent levels; general economic conditions in our target markets, such as changes in employment and household earnings and expenses; the effects of rent controls, stabilization laws and other laws or regulations regarding rental rates and tenant rights; and changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and government policies including health, safety, environmental, property, zoning and tax laws. We will have no control over many of these factors, which could adversely affect the profitability of this business. Our success will also depend, in part, on our assumptions about our target properties, our target renters, our renovation, maintenance and other operating costs, and our rental rates and occupancy levels and, if our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, this may adversely affect the profitability of this business.. Initially, our portfolio of properties has been geographically concentrated, and any adverse developments in local economic conditions, or the demand for single-family rental homes in these markets, or the occurrence of natural disasters, may adversely affect the operating results of this business.. Initially, our target markets are in the east coast of Florida and we are exposed to any adverse developments in local economic conditions or natural disasters in that area. Due to this geographic concentration, any such developments could affect our business to a greater extent than if our properties were less geographically concentrated.. Poor resident selection and defaults by renters may adversely affect the financial performance of this business and harm our reputation.. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified tenants. This will depend, in turn, upon our ability to screen applicants, identify good residents, avoid tenants who may default, and the willingness of our tenants to renew their leases. When properties are vacant, we are not earning rental income and incur maintenance costs as well as turnover costs associated with re-leasing the properties, such as marketing and leasing commissions. Additionally, if we have to evict tenants, we will incur legal costs and may have renovation costs if the tenants don't properly maintain the properties or cause damage to the properties. Our reputation in the communities where our properties are located may be harmed if our tenants are not good neighbors or do damage to our properties or to the local communities.. Declining real estate values and impairment charges could adversely affect the earnings and financial condition of this business.. Our success depends upon our ability to acquire rental properties at attractive values, such that we can earn a. 54. Table of Contents. satisfactory return on our investment primarily through rental income and secondarily through increases in property values. If we overpay for properties, or if their values subsequently decline or fail to rise because of market factors, we may not achieve our financial objectives. Additionally, U.S. GAAP requires companies to take an impairment charge if there is a permanent decline in the value of a property based upon a review of various market factors. An impairment charge would reduce the net income in the period in which it was taken. Even if we concluded that an impairment charge was not needed, a decline in the value of a property may become manifest over time through reduced rental income from the property, which would affect the earnings and financial condition of this business.. Risks Related to REIT Compliance and Other Tax Matters. If we are disqualified as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and face substantial tax liability.. We believe that, since our initial public offering in 1998, we have operated so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code and we intend to continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Nevertheless, we may not remain qualified as a REIT in the future. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could require us to pay a penalty or jeopardize our REIT status. We hold certain assets and derive certain types of income that do not qualify under various gross asset and income requirements applicable to REITs and, if the amounts of such assets or income exceed thresholds permitted under the Code, our ability to qualify as a REIT could be jeopardized. Furthermore, Congress or the IRS might change tax laws or regulations and the courts might issue new rulings, in each case potentially having retroactive effects that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means being unable to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income and being subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe would no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification and thus our cash available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced for each of the years during which we do not qualify as a REIT.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.. In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature and diversification of our MBS and other assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively.. Compliance with the REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our assets and operations. Under these provisions, any income that is generated from transactions intended to hedge our interest rate, inflation and/or currency risks will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests if the instrument hedges (1) interest rate risk on liabilities incurred to carry or acquire real estate or (2) risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that would be qualifying income under the REIT 75% or 95% gross income tests, and such instrument is properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations. Income from hedging transactions that does not meet these requirements will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes. 55. Table of Contents. of both the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous, which could result in greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise incur.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments or to make investments inconsistent with our business plan.. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must also determine that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer. No more than 25% (20% commencing in 2018) of the total value of our assets can be stock in taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we must dispose of a portion of our assets within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter in order to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. The need to comply with these gross income and asset tests may cause us to acquire other assets that are qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT requirements that are not part of our overall business strategy and might not otherwise be the best investment alternative for us.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and may require us to incur debt, sell assets, or take other actions to make such distributions.. In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to stockholders each calendar year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (including certain items of non-cash income), determined without regard to the deduction of dividends paid and excluding net capital gains. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax law.. We intend to distribute our net income to stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined by U.S. GAAP or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur, in which case we may have taxable income in excess of cash flow from our operating activities. In such event, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year and find it difficult or impossible to meet the REIT distribution requirements in certain circumstances. In such circumstances, in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year, we may be required to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures, or repayment of debt, or (iv) make a taxable distribution of our shares as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive shares or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements. Thus, compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may require us to take actions that may not otherwise be advisable given existing market conditions and hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.. Even though we elected to be taxed as REIT, we may be required to pay certain taxes.. Even though we have elected to be taxed as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state, and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, prohibited transactions, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, franchise, property, and transfer taxes, including mortgage recording taxes. In addition, in the future, we may hold some of our assets through wholly-owned TRSs. Any TRSs and any other taxable corporations in which we own an interest will be subject to U.S. federal, state, and local corporate taxes. Payment of these taxes generally would reduce our cash flow and the amount available for distribution to our stockholders.. 56. Table of Contents. Our ability to invest in and dispose of TBA contracts could be limited by our REIT status and we could lose our REIT status as a result of these investments.. We regularly purchase agency securities through TBA contracts. In certain instances, rather than take delivery of the agency securities subject to a TBA contract, we will dispose of the TBA contract through a dollar roll transaction in which we agree to purchase similar securities in the future at a predetermined price or otherwise, which may result in the recognition of income or gains. We account for dollar roll transactions as purchases and sales. The law is unclear regarding whether TBA contracts will be qualifying assets for the 75% asset test and whether income and gains from dispositions of TBA contracts will be qualifying income for the 75% gross income test.. Until such time as we seek and receive a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS, or we are advised by counsel that TBA contracts should be treated as qualifying assets for purposes of the 75% asset test, we will limit our investment in TBA contracts and any non-qualifying assets to no more than 25% of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter. Further, until such time as we seek and receive a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS or we are advised by counsel that income and gains from the disposition of TBA contracts should be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, we will limit our gains from dispositions of TBA contracts and any non-qualifying income to no more than 25% of our gross income for each calendar year. Accordingly, our ability to purchase agency securities through TBA contracts and to dispose of TBA contracts, through dollar roll transactions or otherwise, could be limited.. Moreover, even if we are advised by counsel that TBA contracts should be treated as qualifying assets or that income and gains from dispositions of TBA contracts should be treated as qualifying income, it is possible that the IRS could successfully take the position that such assets are not qualifying assets and such income is not qualifying income. In that event, we could be subject to a penalty tax or we could fail to qualify as a REIT if (i) the value of our TBA contracts, together with our non-qualifying assets for the 75% asset test, exceeded 25% of our gross assets at the end of any calendar quarter or (ii) our income and gains from the disposition of TBA contracts, together with our non-qualifying income for the 75% gross income test, exceeded 25% of our gross income for any taxable year.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow to make distributions to stockholders.. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to our stockholders. At the time when we are required to make previously declared dividend distributions, declines in the value of our portfolio holdings and the resulting subsequent margins calls may have depleted most or all of our cash and cash equivalents. If this were to occur and if market conditions allowed us to do so, we would sell some of our portfolio holdings to generate sufficient funds to make the dividend payments. If market conditions did not allow us to sell portfolio holdings, we would be required to borrow funds on an unsecured basis to make the previously declared dividend payments.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates.. Current tax law generally provides for favorable tax rates (20% maximum in the case of non-corporate stockholders) on dividends received from corporations. However, dividends paid by REITs to these stockholders are generally not eligible for these reduced rates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, all such dividends, other than dividends which are taxable as capital gain dividends or traceable to dividends from a TRS, as are received by a pass-through entity or an individual, will be eligible for a 20% deduction from gross income starting in 2018 under the new tax laws. This eligibility for a 20% deduction will expire in 2025. This legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, but the more favorable rates applicable to non-REIT corporate dividends could cause investors which are trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. Investors and potential investors should consult with their tax advisors regarding the implications of this new tax bill on any investment in our stock.. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in \"prohibited transactions\" will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing loans, which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes.. 57. Table of Contents. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property but including any mortgage loans, held in inventory primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to sell a loan or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of such inventory for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans other than through a taxable REIT subsidiary and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for us. In addition, this prohibition may limit our ability to restructure our investment portfolio of mortgage loans from time to time, even if we believe that it would be in our best interest to do so.. We may incur excess inclusion income that would increase the tax liability of our stockholders.. In general, dividend income that a tax-exempt entity receives from us should not constitute unrelated business taxable income as defined in Section 512 of the Code. If we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, however, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Code. If the stockholder is foreign, it would generally be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. U.S. stockholders would not be able to offset such income with their operating losses.. We generally structure our borrowing arrangements in a manner designed to avoid generating significant amounts of excess inclusion income. However, excess inclusion income could result if we held a residual interest in a REMIC. Excess inclusion income also may be generated if we were to issue debt obligations with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments on these obligations bore a relationship to the payments that we received on our mortgage loans or MBS securing those debt obligations. For example, we may engage in non-REMIC CMO securitizations. We also enter into various repurchase agreements that have differing maturity dates and afford the lender the right to sell any pledged mortgage securities if we default on our obligations. The IRS may determine that these transactions give rise to excess inclusion income that should be allocated among our stockholders. We may invest in equity securities of other REITs and it is possible that we might receive excess inclusion income from those investments. Some types of entities, including, without limitation, voluntarily employee benefit associations and entities that have borrowed funds to acquire their shares of our stock, may be required to treat a portion of or all of the dividends they receive from us as unrelated business taxable income.. Misplaced reliance on legal opinions or statements by issuers of mortgage-related assets could result in a failure to comply with REIT gross income or asset tests.. When purchasing MBS, government securities and interests in loans held in securitization trusts, we may rely on opinions of counsel for the issuer or sponsor of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents or opinions of tax accountants, for purposes of determining whether and to what extent those securities constitute \"real estate assets\" for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income that qualifies under the REIT income tests. The inaccuracy of any such opinions or statements may harm our REIT qualification and result in significant corporate level tax.. Additional Risk Factors. Failure to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act would materially harm our results of operations.. We believe that we conduct our business in a manner that results in our not being regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. If we fail to continue to qualify for an exemption from registration as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced and we would be unable to conduct our business as we presently do.. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or. 58. Table of Contents. proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer's total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the 40% test. Excluded from the term \"investment securities\" are, among other things, U.S government securities and securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act.. The Investment Company Act has an exemption for entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring \"mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.\" Under the SEC's current interpretation, we qualify for this exemption if we maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in qualifying assets and at least 80% of our assets must be in both the qualifying assets and other real estate related interests(and no more than 20% comprised of other miscellaneous assets). In meeting the 55% requirement under the Investment Company Act, the SEC has generally viewed the following asset types as qualifying interests: (1) assets that represent an actual interest in real estate; (2) loans or liens that are fully secured by real estate; (3) assets that can be viewed as the functional equivalent of, and provide the same economic experiencer as, an actual interest in real estate or a loan or lien fully secured by real estate, such as whole pool agency MBS. In meeting the 55% test, we treat MBS issued with respect to an underlying pool for which we hold all issued certificates as qualifying interests and partial pool agency MBS in other real estate related interests in complying with the 80% test. If the SEC or its staff adopts a contrary interpretation, we could be required to sell a substantial amount of our MBS under potentially adverse market conditions. Further, in order to maintain our exemption from registration as an investment company by acquiring \"mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate\", we may be precluded from acquiring MBS whose yield is somewhat higher than the yield on \"mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate\" that could be purchased in a manner consistent with the exemption.. On August 31, 2011, the SEC issued a release soliciting comments on the mortgage REIT exemption under the Investment Company Act. The SEC indicated in its release that it is concerned that some mortgage companies may be subject to the kinds of abuses that the Investment Company Act was intended to address, such as misvaluations of a company's investment portfolio and excessive leveraging. The release asked for comments on or before November 7, 2011 on whether the exclusion should be narrowed or changed in such a way that these potential abuses can be curtailed. The SEC also asked whether there are existing safeguards in the structure and operations of REITs and other mortgage companies that would address these or similar concerns. Although we believe that we have conducted our operations in a manner that would not be of the types of concerns addressed in the SEC's release, we could be subject to any rules or regulations that the SEC could propose in changing or narrowing the current exclusion that mortgage REITs rely on to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the SEC or its staff changes or narrows this exemption, we could be required to sell a substantial amount of our MBS under potentially adverse market conditions. Although, at the present time, it is unknown whether the SEC or its staff will make any changes to this exclusion or the nature of any such changes, it is possible that any such changes could impact our Asset Acquisition Policy, our leverage, our liquidity, the size of our investment portfolio, our ability to use interest rate swap agreements, our ability to borrow, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We presently are not, nor do we intend to be, regulated as an investment company. Fluctuations in our net income and in our book value will likely be greater than those of investment companies. This may affect investors or potential investors as to the appropriateness of our stock as compared to that of an investment company.. While presently our assets are similar to those owned by some investment companies, we are not regulated as an investment company. Regulation as an investment company entails that all investment companies maintain significantly lower levels of financial leverage than we have employed since our organization began operations in 1998. Because of the differences in our leverage from that of investment companies, this results in the fluctuation in net income and in book value by us to likely be greater than that experienced by investment companies. Therefore, investors and potential investors in our company should, on an ongoing basis, carefully determine if this greater level of income fluctuation and book value fluctuation is appropriate for them as compared to whether the less volatile results of investment companies are more appropriate for them.. 59. Table of Contents. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price and marketability of shares of our securities may, from time to time, be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprice and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of REITs or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these securities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in regulatory policies, tax guidelines and financial accounting and reporting standards, particularly with respect to REITs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in interest rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in business conditions and the general economy, including the consequences of actions by the U.S. government and other foreign governments to address the various economic conditions including, but not limited to, Brexit, trade imbalances, credit crisis, currency fluctuations, and the impact of other events, such as threats or actions by other nations such as North Korea and Iran, and global terrorism;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in our dividend policy and earnings or variations in operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic trends and other external factors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in financial estimates by analysts or publication of research reports about us or the real estate or specialty finance industry; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloss of major repurchase agreement and other credit providers.. Fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock and, in the event that we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital.. We may not be able to use the money we raise from time to time to acquire investments at favorable prices.. We intend to seek to raise additional capital from time to time if we determine that it is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, including through public offerings of our stock. The net proceeds of any offering could represent a significant increase in our equity. Depending on the amount of leverage that we use, the full investment of the net proceeds of any offering might result in a substantial increase in our total assets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to invest all of such additional funds in mortgage-related assets at favorable prices. We may not be able to acquire enough mortgage-related assets to become fully invested after an offering, or we may have to pay more for MBS than we have historically. In either case, the return that we earn on stockholders' equity may be reduced.. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and there are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends to them in the future.. We intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our common stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Code. We have not. 60. Table of Contents. established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and our ability to pay dividends may be harmed by the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. All distributions to our common stockholders will be made at the discretion of our Board and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our Board may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future.. If we raise additional capital, our earnings per share and dividends per share may decline since we may not be able to invest all of the new capital during the quarter in which additional shares are sold and possibly the entire following calendar quarter.. Our charter does not permit ownership of over 9.8% of our common or preferred stock and attempts to acquire our common or preferred stock in excess of the 9.8% limit are void without prior approval from our Board.. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification and for other reasons, our charter prohibits direct or constructive ownership by any person of more than 9.8% of the lesser of the total number or value of the outstanding shares of our common stock or more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of our preferred stock. Our charter's constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of the outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of 9.8% of the outstanding stock and thus be subject to our charter's ownership limit. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common or preferred stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of the Board shall be void and will result in the shares being transferred by operation of law to a charitable trust.. Because provisions contained in Maryland law, our charter and our bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect, investors may be prevented from receiving a \"control premium\" for their shares.. Provisions contained in our charter and bylaws, as well as Maryland corporate law, may have anti-takeover effects that delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt, which may prevent stockholders from receiving a \"control premium\" for their shares. For example, these provisions may defer or prevent tender offers for our common stock or purchases of large blocks of our common stock, thereby limiting the opportunities for our stockholders to receive a premium for their common stock over then-prevailing market prices. These provisions include the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOwnership limit. The ownership limit in our charter limits related investors including, among other things, any voting group, from acquiring over 9.8% of our common stock or more than 9.8% of our preferred stock without our permission..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tPreferred Stock. Our charter authorizes our Board to issue preferred stock in one or more classes and to establish the preferences and rights of any class of preferred stock issued. These actions can be taken without soliciting stockholder approval..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMaryland business combination statute. Maryland law restricts the ability of holders of more than 10% of the voting power of a corporation's shares to engage in a business combination with the corporation..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMaryland control share acquisition statute. Maryland law limits the voting rights of \"control shares\" of a corporation in the event of a \"control share acquisition.\". Future offerings of debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock, Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock upon liquidation, or other equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock, Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock for the purposes of dividend distributions, may harm the market price of our common stock, Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred stock. 61. Table of Contents. or common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Our preferred stock may have a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our common stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock.. Our charter provides that we may issue up to 20 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series. The issuance of additional preferred stock on parity with or senior to the Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock or Series C Preferred Stock could have the effect of diluting the amounts we may have available for distribution to holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock or Series C Preferred Stock. The Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock will be subordinated to all our existing and future debt. Thus, our Series A Preferred Stockholders, our Series B Preferred Stockholders and our Series C Preferred Stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock or Series C Preferred Stock.. We may issue additional shares of common stock or shares of preferred stock that are convertible into common stock. If we issue a significant number of shares of common stock or convertible preferred stock in a short period of time, there could be a dilution of the existing common stock and a decrease in the market price of the common stock."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
