[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. Our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant hazards and risks, including those described below. If any of such events should occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity, and/or results of operations could be materially harmed, and holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. Additional risks relating to our securities may be included in the prospectuses for securities we issue in the future.. Crude oil, natural gas, and NGL price volatility could adversely affect our operating results and the price of our common stock.. Our revenues, operating results, and future rate of growth depend highly upon the prices we receive for our crude oil, natural gas, and NGL production. Historically, the markets for these commodities have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. For example, the NYMEX daily settlement price for the prompt month oil contract in 2017 ranged from a high of $60.42 per barrel to a low of $42.53 per barrel. The NYMEX daily settlement price for the prompt month natural gas contract in 2017 ranged from a high of $3.50 per MMBtu to a low of $2.56 per MMBtu. The market prices for crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs depend on factors beyond our control. These factors include demand, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including:. • worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs;. • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations, including the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC);. • political conditions and events (including instability, changes in governments, or armed conflict) in oil and gas producing regions;. • the level of global crude oil and natural gas inventories;. • the price and level of imported foreign crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels, including coal and biofuels;. • the availability of pipeline capacity and infrastructure;. • the availability of crude oil transportation and refining capacity;. • weather conditions;. • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and. • the overall economic environment.. Our results of operations, as well as the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, are substantially dependent upon the prices of oil and natural gas, which have declined significantly since June 2014. Despite slight increases in oil and natural gas prices in 2017, prices have remained significantly lower than levels seen in recent years, which has adversely affected our revenues, operating income, cash flow, and proved reserves. Continued low prices could have a material adverse impact on our operations and limit our ability to fund capital expenditures. Without the ability to fund capital expenditures, we would be unable to replace reserves and production. Sustained low prices of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs may further adversely impact our business as follows:. • limiting our financial condition, liquidity, and/or ability to fund planned capital expenditures and operations;. • reducing the amount of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs that we can produce economically;. • causing us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects;. • reducing our revenues, operating income, and cash flows;. • limiting our access to sources of capital, such as equity and long-term debt;. • reducing the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, resulting in additional non-cash impairments;. • reducing the carrying value of our gathering, transmission, and processing facilities, resulting in additional impairments; or. • reducing the carrying value of goodwill.. 14. Our ability to sell crude oil, natural gas, or NGLs and/or receive market prices for these commodities may be adversely affected by pipeline and gathering system capacity constraints and various transportation interruptions.. A portion of our crude oil, natural gas, and NGL production in any region may be interrupted, limited, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues or strikes, or capital constraints that limit the ability of third parties to construct gathering systems, processing facilities, or interstate pipelines to transport our production, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily adversely affect our cash flows.. Future economic conditions in the U.S. and certain international markets may materially adversely impact our operating results.. Current global market conditions, and uncertainty, including economic instability in Europe and certain emerging markets, is likely to have significant long-term effects. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including fossil fuels. A lower future economic growth rate could result in decreased demand growth for our oil and gas production as well as lower commodity prices, which would reduce our cash flows from operations and our profitability.. Weather and climate may have a significant adverse impact on our revenues and production.. Demand for oil and gas are, to a degree, dependent on weather and climate, which impact the price we receive for the commodities we produce. In addition, our exploration and development activities and equipment can be adversely affected by severe weather, such as freezing temperatures, hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico or storms in the North Sea, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost or damaged equipment. Our planning for normal climatic variation, insurance programs, and emergency recovery plans may inadequately mitigate the effects of such weather conditions, and not all such effects can be predicted, eliminated, or insured against.. Our operations involve a high degree of operational risk, particularly risk of personal injury, damage, or loss of equipment, and environmental accidents.. Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in the drilling, production, and transportation of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs, including:. • well blowouts, explosions, and cratering;. • pipeline or other facility ruptures and spills;. • fires;. • formations with abnormal pressures;. • equipment malfunctions;. • hurricanes, storms, and/or cyclones, which could affect our operations in areas such as on and offshore the Gulf Coast and North Sea and other natural disasters and weather conditions; and. • surface spillage and surface or ground water contamination from petroleum constituents, saltwater, or hydraulic fracturing chemical additives.. Failure or loss of equipment as the result of equipment malfunctions, cyber attacks, or natural disasters such as hurricanes, could result in property damages, personal injury, environmental pollution and other damages for which we could be liable. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence, such as a well blowout, explosion, or fire at a location where our equipment and services are used, or ground water contamination from hydraulic fracturing chemical additives may result in substantial claims for damages. Ineffective containment of a drilling well blowout or pipeline rupture, or surface spillage and surface or ground water contamination from petroleum constituents or hydraulic fracturing chemical additives could result in extensive environmental pollution and substantial remediation expenses. If a significant amount of our production is interrupted, our containment efforts prove to be ineffective or litigation arises as the result of a catastrophic occurrence, our cash flows, and, in turn, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 15. Cyber attacks targeting systems and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry may adversely impact our operations.. Our business has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development, and production activities. We depend on digital technology to estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information, communicate with our employees and third party partners, and conduct many of our activities. Unauthorized access to our digital technology could lead to operational disruption, data corruption or exposure, communication interruption, loss of intellectual property, loss of confidential and fiduciary data, and loss or corruption of reserves or other proprietary information. Also, external digital technologies control nearly all of the oil and gas distribution and refining systems in the United States and abroad, which are necessary to transport and market our production. A cyber attack directed at oil and gas distribution systems could damage critical distribution and storage assets or the environment, delay or prevent delivery of production to markets, and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions.. While we have experienced cyber attacks in the past, we have not suffered any material losses as a result of such attacks; however, there is no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Further, as cyber attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities to cyber attacks.. Our commodity price risk management and trading activities may prevent us from benefiting fully from price increases and may expose us to other risks.. To the extent that we engage in price risk management activities to protect ourselves from commodity price declines, we may be prevented from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels of the derivative instruments used to manage price risk. In addition, our hedging arrangements may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:. • our production falls short of the hedged volumes;. • there is a widening of price-basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement;. • the counterparties to our hedging or other price risk management contracts fail to perform under those arrangements; or. • an unexpected event materially impacts commodity prices.. The credit risk of financial institutions could adversely affect us.. We have exposure to different counterparties, and we have entered into transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks, insurance companies, other investment funds, and other institutions. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. Deterioration in the credit or financial markets may impact the credit ratings of our current and potential counterparties and affect their ability to fulfill their existing obligations to us and their willingness to enter into future transactions with us. We may also have exposure to financial institutions in the form of derivative transactions in connection with any hedges. We also have exposure to insurance companies in the form of claims under our policies. In addition, if any lender under our credit facilities is unable to fund its commitment, our liquidity will be reduced by an amount up to the aggregate amount of such lender's commitment under our credit facilities.. We are exposed to a risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. This risk of counterparty non-performance is of particular concern given the recent volatility of the financial markets and significant decline in commodity prices, which could lead to sudden changes in a counterparty's liquidity and impair its ability to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. Even if we do accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our hedge providers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that we would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed to us by the distressed entity or entities. During periods of falling commodity prices our hedge receivable positions increase, which increases our exposure. If the creditworthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss.. 16. The distressed financial conditions of our purchasers and partners could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or to reimburse us for their share of costs.. Concerns about global economic conditions and the volatility of oil, natural gas, and NGL prices have had a significant adverse impact on the oil and gas industry. We are exposed to risk of financial loss from trade, joint venture, joint interest billing, and other receivables. We sell our crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs to a variety of purchasers. As operator, we pay expenses and bill our non-operating partners for their respective shares of costs. As a result of current economic conditions and the severe decline in commodity prices, some of our customers and non-operating partners may experience severe financial problems that may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. We cannot provide assurance that one or more of our financially distressed customers or non-operating partners will not default on their obligations to us or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, future results of operations, or future cash flows. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our customers or non-operating partners, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that we would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed by the distressed entity or entities. Nonperformance by a trade creditor or non-operating partner could result in significant financial losses.. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital.. We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in the United States. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales, and near-term and long-term production growth opportunities. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix, and commodity pricing levels and others are also considered by the rating agencies. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability to access debt markets in the future and increase the cost of future debt; past ratings downgrades have, and any future downgrades may require us to post letters of credit or other forms of collateral for certain obligations.  Throughout 2017, our credit rating remained unchanged by Moody's at Baa3/Stable and Standard and Poor's at BBB/Stable. Any future downgrades could result in additional postings of collateral ranging from approximately $500 million to $1.4 billion, depending upon timing and availability of tax relief.. Market conditions may restrict our ability to obtain funds for future development and working capital needs, which may limit our financial flexibility.. The financial markets are subject to fluctuation and are vulnerable to unpredictable shocks. We have a significant development project inventory and an extensive exploration portfolio, which will require substantial future investment. We and/or our partners may need to seek financing in order to fund these or other future activities. Our future access to capital, as well as that of our partners and contractors, could be limited if the debt or equity markets are constrained. This could significantly delay development of our property interests.. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to limitations.. The payment of future dividends on our capital stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, which considers, among other factors, our operating results, overall financial condition, credit-risk considerations, and capital requirements, as well as general business and market conditions. Our board of directors is not required to declare dividends on our common stock and may decide not to declare dividends.. Any indentures and other financing agreements that we enter into in the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including common stock. In addition, under Delaware law, dividends on capital stock may only be paid from \"surplus,\" which is the amount by which the fair value of our total assets exceeds the sum of our total liabilities, including contingent liabilities, and the amount of our capital; if there is no surplus, cash dividends on capital stock may only be paid from our net profits for the then current and/or the preceding fiscal year. Further, even if we are permitted under our contractual obligations and Delaware law to pay cash dividends on common stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay dividends in cash on our common stock.. Discoveries or acquisitions of additional reserves are needed to avoid a material decline in reserves and production.. The production rate from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted, while related per-unit production costs generally increase as a result of decreasing reservoir pressures and other factors. Therefore, unless we add reserves through exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones, secondary recovery reserves, or tertiary recovery reserves, or acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, our estimated proved reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced. Future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves on an economic basis. Furthermore, if oil or gas prices increase, our cost for additional reserves could also increase.. 17. We may not realize an adequate return on wells that we drill.. Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. The wells we drill or participate in may not be productive, and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in those wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that crude or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. The costs of drilling, completing, and operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of a variety of factors including, but not limited to:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • pressure or irregularities in formations;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • fires, explosions, blowouts, and surface cratering;. • marine risks such as capsizing, collisions, and hurricanes;. • other adverse weather conditions; and. • increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs and equipment.. Future drilling activities may not be successful, and, if unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. While all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.. Material differences between the estimated and actual timing of critical events or costs may affect the completion and commencement of production from development projects.. We are involved in several large development projects and the completion of these projects may be delayed beyond our anticipated completion dates. Our projects may be delayed by project approvals from joint venture partners, timely issuances of permits and licenses by governmental agencies, weather conditions, manufacturing and delivery schedules of critical equipment, and other unforeseen events. Delays and differences between estimated and actual timing of critical events may adversely affect our large development projects and our ability to participate in large-scale development projects in the future. In addition, our estimates of future development costs are based on current expectation of prices and other costs of equipment and personnel we will need to implement such projects. Our actual future development costs may be significantly higher than we currently estimate. If costs become too high, our development projects may become uneconomic to us, and we may be forced to abandon such development projects.. We may fail to fully identify potential problems related to acquired reserves or to properly estimate those reserves.. Although we perform a review of properties that we acquire that we believe is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are inherently incomplete. It generally is not feasible to review in-depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Ordinarily, we will focus our review efforts on the higher-value properties and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us as a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully and accurately their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, we often assume certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and future production rates and costs with respect to acquired properties, and actual results may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. In addition, there can be no assurance that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon our operating results, particularly during the periods in which the operations of acquired businesses are being integrated into our ongoing operations.. Our liabilities could be adversely affected in the event one or more of our transaction counterparties become the subject of a bankruptcy case.. From time to time we have divested noncore or nonstrategic domestic and international assets. The agreements relating to these transactions contain provisions pursuant to which liabilities related to past and future operations have been allocated between the parties by means of liability assumptions, indemnities, escrows, trusts, and similar arrangements.  One of the most significant of these liabilities involves the decommissioning of wells and facilities previously owned by us. One or more of the counterparties. 18. in these transactions could fail to perform its obligations under these agreements as a result of financial distress. In the event that any such counterparty were to become the subject of a case or proceeding under Title 11 of the United States Code or any other relevant insolvency law or similar law (which we collectively refer to as Insolvency Laws), the counterparty may not perform its obligations under the agreements related to these transactions. In that case, our remedy in the proceeding would be a claim for damages for the breach of the contractual arrangements, which may be either a secured claim or an unsecured claim depending on whether or not we have collateral from the counterparty for the performance of the obligations. Resolution of our claim for damages in such a proceeding may be delayed, and we may be forced to use available cash to cover the costs of the obligations assumed by the counterparties under such agreements should they arise.. Despite the provisions in our agreements requiring purchasers of our state or federal leasehold interests to assume certain liabilities and obligations related to such interests, if a purchaser of such interests becomes the subject of a case or proceeding under relevant Insolvency Laws or becomes unable financially to perform such liabilities or obligations, we would expect the relevant governmental authorities to require us to perform, and hold us responsible for, such liabilities and obligations. In such event, we may be forced to use available cash to cover the costs of such liabilities and obligations should they arise.. If a court or a governmental authority were to make any of the foregoing determinations or take any of the foregoing actions, or any similar determination or action, it could adversely impact our cash flows, operations, or financial condition.. Crude oil, natural gas, and NGL reserves are estimates, and actual recoveries may vary significantly.. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil, natural gas, and NGL reserves and their value. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Because of the high degree of judgment involved, the accuracy of any reserve estimate is inherently imprecise, and a function of the quality of available data and the engineering and geological interpretation. Our reserves estimates are based on 12-month average prices, except where contractual arrangements exist; therefore, reserves quantities will change when actual prices increase or decrease. In addition, results of drilling, testing, and production may substantially change the reserve estimates for a given reservoir over time. The estimates of our proved reserves and estimated future net revenues also depend on a number of factors and assumptions that may vary considerably from actual results, including:. • historical production from the area compared with production from other areas;. • the effects of regulations by governmental agencies, including changes to severance and excise taxes;. • future operating costs and capital expenditures; and. • workover and remediation costs.. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of those reserves and estimates of the future net cash flows expected from them prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserves estimates may be subject to upward or downward adjustment, and actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves likely will vary, possibly materially, from estimates.. Additionally, because some of our reserves estimates are calculated using volumetric analysis, those estimates are less reliable than the estimates based on a lengthy production history. Volumetric analysis involves estimating the volume of a reservoir based on the net feet of pay of the structure and an estimation of the area covered by the structure. In addition, realization or recognition of proved undeveloped reserves will depend on our development schedule and plans. A change in future development plans for proved undeveloped reserves could cause the discontinuation of the classification of these reserves as proved.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage.. A sizeable portion of our acreage is currently undeveloped. Unless production in paying quantities is established on units containing certain of these leases during their terms, the leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, commodity prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling, and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals.. 19. We may incur significant costs related to environmental matters.. As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties, we are subject to various federal, provincial, state, local, and foreign country laws and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on the lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost of pollution clean-up and other remediation activities resulting from operations, subject the lessee to liability for pollution and other damages, limit or constrain operations in affected areas, and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas. Our efforts to limit our exposure to such liability and cost may prove inadequate and result in significant adverse effects to our results of operations. In addition, it is possible that the increasingly strict requirements imposed by environmental laws and enforcement policies could require us to make significant capital expenditures. Such capital expenditures could adversely impact our cash flows and our financial condition.. Our North American operations are subject to governmental risks.. Our North American operations have been, and at times in the future may be, affected by political developments and by federal, state, and local laws and regulations such as restrictions on production, changes in taxes, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies, price or gathering rate controls, and environmental protection laws and regulations.. In response to the Deepwater Horizon incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in April 2010, and as directed by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Interior, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) issued guidelines and regulations regarding safety, environmental matters, drilling equipment, and decommissioning applicable to drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. These regulations imposed additional requirements and caused delays with respect to development and production activities in the Gulf of Mexico.. With respect to oil and gas operations in the Gulf of Mexico, the BOEM has issued a Notice to Lessees (NTL No. 2016-N01) significantly revising the obligations of companies operating in the Gulf of Mexico to provide supplemental assurances of performance with respect to plugging, abandonment, and decommissioning obligations associated with wells, platforms, structures, and facilities located upon or used in connection with such companies' oil and gas leases. While requirements under the NTL have not yet been fully implemented by BOEM, the NTL will likely require that Apache provide additional security to BOEM with respect to plugging, abandonment, and decommissioning obligations relating to Apache's current ownership interests in various Gulf of Mexico leases. We are working closely with BOEM to make arrangements for the provision of such additional required security, if such security becomes necessary under the NTL. Additionally, we are not able to predict the effect that these changes might have on counterparties to which Apache has sold Gulf of Mexico assets or with whom Apache has joint ownership. Such changes could cause the bonding obligations of such parties to increase substantially, thereby causing a significant impact on the counterparties' solvency and ability to continue as a going concern.. New political developments, laws, and the enactment of new or stricter regulations in the Gulf of Mexico or otherwise impacting our North American operations, and increased liability for companies operating in this sector may adversely impact our results of operations.. Changes to existing regulations related to emissions and the impact of any changes in climate could adversely impact our business.. Certain countries where we operate, including the United Kingdom, either tax or assess some form of greenhouse gas (GHG) related fees on our operations. Exposure has not been material to date, although a change in existing regulations could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.. In the event the predictions for rising temperatures and sea levels suggested by reports of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change do transpire, we do not believe those events by themselves are likely to impact our assets or operations. However, any increase in severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our assets and operations.. The present U.S. federal and state income tax laws affecting oil and gas exploration, development, and extraction may be modified by administrative, legislative, or judicial interpretation at any time. Future legislation may result in the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act) was signed into law. In addition to reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent effective January 1, 2018, certain provisions in the Act move the U.S. away from a worldwide tax system and closer to a territorial system for earnings of foreign corporations, establishing a participation exemption. 20. system for taxation of foreign income. The new law includes a transition rule to effect this participation exemption regime. The Act also includes provisions which could impact or limit the Company's ability to deduct interest expense or utilize net operating losses beginning in 2018. The Company continues to assess other provisions of the Act including, among other items, the interaction between the deemed repatriation of foreign earnings and 2017 net operating losses as well as the applicability of new taxes on certain future foreign earnings.. The U.S. federal and state income tax laws affecting oil and gas exploration, development, and extraction may be further modified by administrative, legislative, or judicial interpretation at any time. Previous legislative proposals, if enacted into law, could make significant changes to such laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, and (iii) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. The passage or adoption of these changes, or similar changes, could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be enacted. Any such changes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Proposed federal, state, or local regulation regarding hydraulic fracturing could increase our operating and capital costs.. Several proposals are before the U.S. Congress that, if implemented, would either prohibit or restrict the practice of hydraulic fracturing or subject the process to regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act. Several states are considering legislation to regulate hydraulic fracturing practices that could impose more stringent permitting, transparency, and well construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. Hydraulic fracturing of wells and subsurface water disposal are also under public and governmental scrutiny due to potential environmental and physical impacts, including possible contamination of groundwater and drinking water and possible links to earthquakes. In addition, some municipalities have significantly limited or prohibited drilling activities and/or hydraulic fracturing, or are considering doing so. We routinely use fracturing techniques in the U.S. and other regions to expand the available space for natural gas and oil to migrate toward the wellbore. It is typically done at substantial depths in formations with low permeability.. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of the legislation regarding hydraulic fracturing, any new federal, state, or local restrictions on hydraulic fracturing that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions in the U.S.. International operations have uncertain political, economic, and other risks.. Our operations outside North America are based primarily in Egypt and the United Kingdom. On a barrel equivalent basis, approximately 48 percent of our 2017 production was outside North America, and approximately 31 percent of our estimated proved oil and gas reserves on December 31, 2017, were located outside North America. As a result, a significant portion of our production and resources are subject to the increased political and economic risks and other factors associated with international operations including, but not limited to:. • general strikes and civil unrest;. • the risk of war, acts of terrorism, expropriation and resource nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts;. • import and export regulations;. • taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and investment restrictions;. • price control;. • transportation regulations and tariffs;. • constrained natural gas markets dependent on demand in a single or limited geographical area;. • exchange controls, currency fluctuations, devaluation, or other activities that limit or disrupt markets and restrict payments or the movement of funds;. • laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, including trade sanctions;. • the possibility of being subject to exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes relating to licenses to operate and concession rights in countries where we currently operate;. 21. • the possible inability to subject foreign persons, especially foreign oil ministries and national oil companies, to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and. • difficulties in enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations.. Foreign countries have occasionally asserted rights to oil and gas properties through border disputes. If a country claims superior rights to oil and gas leases or concessions granted to us by another country, our interests could decrease in value or be lost. Even our smaller international assets may affect our overall business and results of operations by distracting management's attention from our more significant assets. Certain regions of the world in which we operate have a history of political and economic instability. This instability could result in new governments or the adoption of new policies that might result in a substantially more hostile attitude toward foreign investments such as ours. In an extreme case, such a change could result in termination of contract rights and expropriation of our assets. This could adversely affect our interests and our future profitability.. The impact that future terrorist attacks or regional hostilities as have occurred in Egypt and Libya may have on the oil and gas industry in general, and on our operations in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, processing plants, and refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war. We may be required to incur significant costs in the future to safeguard our assets against terrorist activities.. A deterioration of conditions in Egypt or changes in the economic and political environment in Egypt could have an adverse impact on our business.. Deterioration in the political, economic, and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Egyptian government, such as changes in laws or regulations, export restrictions, expropriation of our assets or resource nationalization, and/or forced renegotiation or modification of our existing contracts with EGPC, or threats or acts of terrorism, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations in Egypt, excluding a one-third noncontrolling interest, contributed 27 percent of our 2017 production and accounted for 15 percent of our year-end estimated proved reserves and 25 percent of our estimated discounted future net cash flows.. Our operations are sensitive to currency rate fluctuations.. Our operations are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and the British pound. Our financial statements, presented in U.S. dollars, may be affected by foreign currency fluctuations through both translation risk and transaction risk. Volatility in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations, particularly through the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies.. We do not always control decisions made under joint operating agreements and the parties under such agreements may fail to meet their obligations.. We conduct many of our E&P operations through joint operating agreements with other parties under which we may not control decisions, either because we do not have a controlling interest or are not operator under the agreement. There is risk that these parties may at any time have economic, business, or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and therefore decisions may be made which are not what we believe is in our best interest. Moreover, parties to these agreements may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. In either case, the value of our investment may be adversely affected.. We face strong industry competition that may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations.. Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas E&P industry. We compete with major integrated and other independent oil and gas companies for acquisitions of oil and gas leases, properties, and reserves, equipment, and labor required to explore, develop, and operate those properties, and marketing of crude oil, natural gas, and NGL production. Crude oil, natural gas, and NGL prices impact the costs of properties available for acquisition and the number of companies with the financial resources to pursue acquisition opportunities. Many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially larger than we possess and have established strategic long-term positions and maintain strong governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek new entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in bidding for drilling rights. In addition, many of our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for oil and gas production, such as fluctuating worldwide commodity prices and levels of production, the cost and availability of alternative fuels, and the application of government regulations. We also compete in attracting and retaining personnel, including geologists,. 22. geophysicists, engineers, and other specialists. These competitive pressures may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations.. Our insurance policies do not cover all of the risks we face, which could result in significant financial exposure.. Exploration for and production of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other events such as blowouts, cratering, fire and explosion and loss of well control, which can result in damage to or destruction of wells or production facilities, injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property and the environment. Our international operations are also subject to political risk. The insurance coverage that we maintain against certain losses or liabilities arising from our operations may be inadequate to cover any such resulting liability; moreover, insurance is not available to us against all operational risks.. Certain anti-takeover provisions in our charter and Delaware law could delay or prevent a hostile takeover.. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series and to determine the voting rights and dividend rights, dividend rates, liquidation preferences, conversion rights, redemption rights, including sinking fund provisions and redemption prices, and other terms and rights of each series of preferred stock. In addition, Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions may deter hostile takeover attempts that could result in an acquisition of us that would have been financially beneficial to our shareholders."
