[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. General global economic and business conditions. Our Architectural Framing Systems, Architectural Glass and Architectural Services segments are dependent on global economic conditions and the cyclical nature of the North American commercial construction industry. The commercial construction industry is impacted by global macroeconomic trends that, in turn, affect, among other things, availability of credit, employment levels, consumer confidence, interest rates and commodity prices. To the extent changes in these factors negatively impact the overall commercial construction industry, our revenue and profits could be significantly reduced.. Our Architectural Glass segment's operation located in Brazil is subject to the economic, political and tax conditions prevalent in the country. We cannot predict how changing economic conditions in Brazil will impact our financial results; however, our Brazilian operation makes up less than five percent of our net sales annually.. Our LSO segment depends on the strength of the retail custom picture framing industry. This industry is highly dependent on consumer confidence and the conditions of the U.S. economy. A decline in consumer confidence, whether as a result of an economic slowdown, uncertainty regarding the future or other factors, could result in a decrease in net sales and operating income of this segment.. Foreign currency exchange impacts. Our subsidiaries in Canada and Brazil report their results of operations and financial position in their relevant functional currencies (local country currency), which are then translated into U.S. dollars. This translated financial information is included in our consolidated financial statements. As the relationship between these currencies and the U.S. dollar changes, there could be a negative impact on our reported results and financial position.. In addition, when the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, imports of products into the U.S. produced by international competitors become more price competitive and exports of our U.S.-fabricated products become less price competitive. If we are not able to counteract these types of price pressures through superior quality and service, our net sales and operating income could be negatively impacted.. New competitors or specific actions of our existing competitors. All of our operating segments operate in competitive industries where the actions of our existing competitors or new competitors could result in a loss of customers or share of customers' demand. Changes in our competitors' products, prices or services could negatively impact our share of demand, net sales or margins.. 9. Table of Contents. Our Architectural Framing Systems and Architectural Glass segments have seen an increase in imports of competitive products into the U.S. from international suppliers due to the relative strength of the U.S. dollar. If imports of competitive products were to occur at increased levels for extended periods of time, our net sales and margins could be negatively impacted.. Our LSO segment competes with several international specialty glass manufacturers. If these competitors are able to successfully increase their product attributes and production capacity and/or increase their sales and marketing focus to the U.S. custom picture framing market, this segment's net sales and margins could be negatively impacted.. Acquisitions and related integration activities. We have completed and may complete additional acquisitions in the future to accelerate the execution of our growth strategies, including new geographies, adjacent market sectors and new product introductions. While we have a disciplined approach to assessing potential acquisition targets, conducting due diligence activities, negotiating appropriate acquisition terms and integration activities, there are risks inherent in completing acquisitions, including:. • diversion of management's attention from existing business activities;. • difficulties or delays in integrating and assimilating information and financial systems, operations and products of an acquired business or other business venture or in realizing projected efficiencies, growth prospects, cost savings and synergies;. • potential loss of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired businesses or adverse effects on relationships with existing customers and suppliers;. • adverse impact on overall profitability if the acquired business does not achieve the return on investment projected at the time of acquisition; and. • inaccurate assessment of additional post-acquisition capital investments, undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities, problems executing backlog of material supply or installation projects, unanticipated costs and an inability to recover or manage such liabilities and costs.. If one or more of these risks arises in a material manner, our operating results could be negatively impacted.. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment. Our total assets include a significant amount of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as a result of our recent acquisitions. We test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the potential for impairment. If future operating performance at one or more of our operating units were to fall significantly below forecast levels or if market conditions for one or more of our acquired businesses were to decline, we could incur a non-cash impairment charge that would negatively impact our net earnings.. Effective utilization and management of our manufacturing capacity. Near-term performance depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to provide sufficient available capacity and appropriately utilize existing production capacity. The failure to successfully maintain existing capacity, successfully implement planned capacity expansions, and make investments in additional physical capacity could adversely affect our operating results.. Loss of key personnel and inability to source sufficient labor. Our success depends on the skills of the Company's leadership, construction project managers and other key technical personnel, and our ability to secure sufficient manufacturing labor.  Increased activity in residential and commercial construction has caused increased competition for experienced construction project managers.  Additionally, some of our manufacturing facilities are located in regions that at times have experienced low levels of unemployment.  If we are unable to retain existing employees and/or recruit and train additional employees with the requisite skills and experience, our operating results could be adversely impacted.. Commodity price fluctuations, trade policy impacts and supply availability. Our Architectural Framing Systems and Architectural Services segments use aluminum as a significant input to their products. While we structure many of our supply agreements in a way to moderate the effects of fluctuations in the market for raw aluminum and we endeavor to adjust market pricing to offset potential impacts, operating results could be negatively impacted by price movements in the market for raw aluminum.. As a result of recently announced increased tariffs on aluminum and sanctions against certain producers, we have seen increased volatility regarding the cost of aluminum that we purchase from both domestic and international sources.  Also, recently announced steel tariffs have the potential to impact our customers as steel is a significant input the construction of commercial buildings.  Lastly, due to our Architectural Framing Systems segment presence in Canada, we have significant cross-border activity as our Canadian businesses purchase inputs from U.S.-based suppliers and sell to U.S.-based customers.  A significant change in the terms of the North American Free Trade Agreement could have an adverse impact on our net sales and operating results.. 10. Table of Contents. Our Architectural Glass and LSO segments use raw glass as a significant input to their products. The supply of raw glass has become tighter due to several years of growth in automotive manufacturing and residential and non-residential construction. Although we have secured supply commitments from multiple suppliers that allow us to reach our near-term growth targets, a significant unplanned downtime or shift in strategy at one or more of our key suppliers could negatively impact our operating results.. Product quality issues. We manufacture and/or install a significant portion of our products based on the specific requirements of each customer. We believe that future orders of our products or services will depend on our ability to maintain the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. If our products have performance, reliability or quality problems, or products are installed using incompatible glazing materials or installed improperly (by us or a customer), we may experience: additional warranty expense; reduced or canceled orders; higher manufacturing or installation costs; or delays in the collection of accounts receivable. Additionally, performance, reliability or quality claims from our customers, with or without merit, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation that could require significant time and attention of management and involve significant monetary damages that could negatively impact our financial results.. Project management and installation issues. The Architectural Services segment and, occasionally, the Architectural Framing Systems segment are awarded fixed-price contracts that include material supply and installation services. Often, bids are required before all aspects of a construction project are known. An underestimate in the amount of labor required and/or cost of materials for a project; a change in the timing of the delivery of product; system design errors, difficulties or errors in execution; or significant project delays, caused by us or other trades, could result in failure to achieve the expected results. Any one or more of such issues could result in losses on individual contracts that could negatively impact our operating results.. Changes in architectural trends, building codes or consumer preferences. Any change in commercial construction customer preference, architectural trends or building codes that reduce window-to-wall ratios could negatively impact net sales and operating income in our architectural-related segments. The LSO segment depends on U.S. consumers framing art and other decorative items. Any shift in customer preference away from framed art to other forms of wall decor could negatively impact future net sales and operating income in the LSO segment.. Customer dependence in the LSO segment. The LSO segment continues to be highly dependent on a relatively small number of customers for its sales, while working to grow in new markets and with additional customers. Accordingly, loss of a significant customer, a significant reduction in pricing, or a shift to a less favorable mix of value-added picture framing glass or acrylic products for one or more of those customers could materially reduce LSO net sales and operating results.. Results can differ significantly from our expectations and the expectations of analysts. Our sales and earnings guidance and resulting external analyst estimates are largely based on our view of our business and the broader commercial construction market. Even though we have market intelligence through our contact with real estate developers, building owners and architects, and continually monitor micro- and macro-economic indicators of future performance of the commercial construction market, we are unable to precisely predict events that can significantly change market cycles. Failure to meet our guidance or analyst expectations for net sales and earnings would likely have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock.. Significant risk retention through self-insurance programs. We obtain third-party insurance for potential losses from general liability, employment practices, workers' compensation and automobile liability risk, as well as medical insurance. However, a high amount of risk is retained on a self-insured basis, partially through our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary. Therefore, a material architectural product liability event could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Dependence on information technology systems and potential security threats. Our operations are dependent upon various information technology systems that are used to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support our manufacturing operations and a variety of other business processes and activities. We could encounter difficulties in maintaining our existing systems, and developing and implementing new systems.  Such difficulties could lead to disruption in business operations and/or significant additional expenses that could adversely affect our results.. Additionally, information technology security threats are increasing in frequency and sophistication. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. Should such an attack succeed, it could lead to the compromise of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data and product. 11. Table of Contents. specifications, production downtimes, disruption in the availability of financial data, or misrepresentation of information via digital media. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our reputation and could result in litigation, regulatory action, project delay claims, and increased costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection systems.. Use of hazardous chemicals and environmental compliance. We use hazardous chemicals in the production process of some of our products. As a result, we are subject to a variety of local, state and federal governmental regulations relating to storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products, compliance with which is expensive. Our failure to comply with current or future environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or increased costs.. Changes in tax rates or the adoption of new tax legislation. We are subject to taxes in the U.S., Canada and Brazil. Our effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws or their implementation. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") was signed into law in the U.S. While the Act will reduce our U.S. effective tax rate, the overall impact is uncertain due to the complexity of certain provisions of the Act and ambiguities in the interpretation and application of those provisions. Therefore, any material change in the interpretation or application of the provisions of the Act could have a significant impact on our net earnings."
